ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Xanna, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u2	The MP of Potamios Georgios Amyras reports to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, the letter of the Municipality of Kissamos Chania, on the timely approval by the Ministry of Culture of the concession of Agialos and the beaches belonging to the administrative limits of the Municipality of Kissamos to third parties. Mr Christos Katsotis, Mr Ioannis Giokas, Mr Liana Kanelli and Mr Diamantos Manolakos present a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the employees of the suburban applicant for the extension of the measure of free movement to urban transport measures in Athens and the suburban railway network. The KKE MPs George Lambroulis, Athanasios Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou present a reference to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, where the association of students and students of the focuses of the Higher Technology Institute (THEI) Thessaly is requested public and free feeding and housing for all students - students and the building of new outbreaks with the responsibility of the state. The KKE MPs Mr.Nolas Moraitis and Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos report to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which the Presidents of the Local Communities of the Municipal Unit of the Municipality of Agrinio along the National Road of Agrinio - Karpenisi are applying for measures to start the project on improving the road of Agrinio - Karpenisiou. The Member of the New Democracy, Christos Dimas, has submitted a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the association of workers - suburban passengers applicants for the extension of the exceptional measure of free movement to the suburban rail network. Athanasios Bardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou reported to the Ministry of Health the resolution - a complaint by the Xanthi Municipal Council against any attempt to legitimise the use of drugs, as well as their unscientific position to separate them into 'hard' and 'bad' drugs. Mr Stavros Tassos, Mr Diamandoo Manolakos and Mr Emmanouil Synthrakis have reported to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction the joint memorandum of Workers - Workers' Centres of Samos, Lesvos, North Dodecanese and Milos and the Prefectural Departments of the ADED of Samos, Limnos and Chios, denounce the problems faced by immigrants and refugees arriving in the islands of the country and seek immediate measures to resolve them. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Panagiotis (Notis) Mitarakis reported to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs, with which the Association of Students of the Academy of Marine Engineers of Chios calls for the treatment of a number of issues relating to maritime education and the upgrading of the model of training of the Academy of Marine Engineers of Chios. Mr. Kyriakos Harakidis reported to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on 15 October 2014 the Press Release of the Association of Police Border Guard Officers of the Prefecture of Drama on the immediate need for the establishment of the Parenestion Reservation Centre, a special committee to examine on-the-spot asylum requests, the establishment of the Centre's medical offices with permanent medical staff, the updating of staff by appropriate scientists on how to prevent and suppress infectious diseases, the supply of consumable personal hygiene materials and the conclusion of a contract with a cleaning company. PASOK MEP Yannis Koutsoukos submits the following reports: To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity that employees of the "Help to Home" programme of the Municipality of Tower denounce the long-term delay in their payroll and seek the immediate payment of their employees. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, by which the Ilia Chamber of Deputies requests compensation for the operations affected by the floods of February 2012 in the area of Ilias Tower. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, by which the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Parents and Gardens with Disabilities (POGMA) is requesting the immediate adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision (CCA), as provided for in Article 15 of the Law. 4325/2015 on the financing of the prolongation of the Day Care Centers' Programme (CVO). To the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economics, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, which calls for the modification of the conditions for their inclusion in the Food and Basic Material Assistance Programme (TEBA/FEAD). Mr Georgios Kasapidis presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, by which the Municipality of Serbs - Velvetou requests the concession of the vacant and inactive building of the Serbian Peace Court for the accommodation and operation of the Directorates (a) the Technical Service and (b) the Town and Environment of the Municipality of Serbs - Velvetou. The Ministry of Health, by which the Deputy Minister of Health and Welfare of the Region of Western Macedonia is requested to be included in the relevant Ministerial Decision and the Municipality of Voiu in the fertile and problematic areas, highlighting the need to provide incentives for the auxiliary doctors of the Tsotyli Health Center. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on (a) the publication of the newspaper "CHANGY" of Patras on 6-5-2015, which denounces the situation in which the playground on the streets of Philly and Messology is found in Ovrea, Patras, as well as the indifference shown by the competent authorities, (b) the letter of the Association of Citizens "Greek Responsibility - Citizens' Initiative of Patras", in which they express their opposition to the change of the Code of Greek Nationality. To the Ministry of Health relating to (a) the publication of the newspaper "NATIONOS" on 22-5-2015, which affects the issue of the loss of revenue from foreign hospitals in Greek hospitals and units of EEAS, (b) the letter of the Associations of Hospital Doctors of Western Macedonia (INDI), in which they highlight the shortcomings in medical staff and the risk of the collapse of the hospital structures of Western Macedonia. The Press Release of the Patras Medical Association in which an extensive debate on subsistence to medical and nursing staff, sub-financing and infrastructure shortages in hospitals in Patras is published. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning (a) the letter of the Coordinating Committee of the Posted Educational Teachers. 4172/2013, in which it sets out its views and views on the problems that will arise in the process of retirement, (b) the Professor’s letter of the University of Patras, which seeks the suspension of his retirement leave by expressing his disagreement on the convening decision concerning matters arising from his retirement, (c) the Press Release of the Greek Association of Informatics, in which he responds to the statements of the Prime Minister for the Non-Service of Electronic Votes, confirming that computer science today has the research knowledge and the necessary technology for the safe conduct of electronic votes ensuring both the integrity and the secrecy of a vote, (d) the letter of the Association of Subscribing Teachers with Masters with Masters' - Doctoral studies in Special Education/Schole Psychology, in which they are asked for the equal recognition of the pre-service of their assistants, as well as the safeguarding of their employment and labour rights. To the Ministries of Economics and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, by which the Panhellenic Federation of Railways and the Panhellenic Association of Mechanical Technology Applications (TE) of the Greek Railway Agency (OSE), denounce the process of promotion of railway employees in OSE which do not go hand in hand with merit and transparency, as well as the arrangements for wage issues. The Ministry of Finance, by which the Association of Greek Books calls for the direct offsetting of public debts to publishers for university writings, for the book to be subject to low VAT and for the single price to be re-established in the context of support for the purchase of the book in our country. Mr President, the reports have been read out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 10 July 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 404/30-6-2015 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of natural gas networks and pipelines in the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 388/24-6-2015 by MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the detection of toxic pesticides in samples taken in apple orchards in Imathia, Corinth and Arcadia. 3. The Question No 390/26-6-2015 by MP Mr.Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the timely dispatch of the agreement of the Ministry's services to conclude the agreed concessions for the use of the Aegean Sea and the beach between the municipalities and third parties. 4. The Question No 398/30-6-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the recruitment of necessary personnel at PPC S.A. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 405/30-6-2015 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the shortcomings in the veterinary services of the Prefecture of Iotolokarnania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 293/2-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the Media (MEI) and the equal promotion of parties. 3. The Question No 381/23-6-2015 by Mr. Atticas of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the fire in the recycling plant at Aspropyrgos. 4. Mr Diamantos Manolakou, Minister for Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the payment of compensation to farmers in Central Corinth for damages suffered by their crops by the heavy quartzing. 5. The Question No 369/19-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of State (to fight Corruption), on the work of the ERGOSE Tunnel. 6. The question by No 371/22-6-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the exclusion of quality and certified Greek products from the tender for free distribution of food and basic items to the most deprived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the sixth question under number 382/23-6-2015 of the second question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the application of collective agreements at hotels. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis will answer the timely question. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The topical question, Minister, which we are debating today is directly related to the election campaign, but also to your post-election commitment to restoring the legislative framework for collective agreements, their compulsoryity, a commitment which, as we have said several times, has been to the bells. But now interpreting your intention to sign a third memorandum seems to be one of the prerequisites for the agreement to ensure even cheaper labour force. The labour movement must not back up in the fight for the abolition of the anti-Hallian arsenal, the demand for such an institutional framework, which will ensure conditions for the reclaiming of collective labour contracts for the benefit of workers. What is the situation, Minister, today dominating the tourism sector, which has emerged so much in a sector that offers many to the economy, even in the times of the crisis? It is known that the existing contract expires in 2015. This does not, however, apply to the majority of hotels, either because, as some hotel owners claim, they are not members of the employers' organizations or because flexible working relationships have been widened, especially the 'business' workshops, which apply the lowest wage or because they dominate business collective agreements signed by associations of persons - the employer puts four, five people of its own and sign contracts - on terms of remuneration and work of this kind, which are below and below the National Collective Labour Convention, below and below the minimum limits currently considered to be self-evident. The majority of such collective agreements signed by associations of persons effectively abolishes daily working time and enables the management, with a management right, to unilaterally settle working time from the statutory institutionalised limits. So that we do not go any further - and we have a lot to say in our dentext - we are asking what direct measures you can take to restore the compulsion of sectoral collective agreements, to ban the activity of 'business' workshops, to abolish the possibility of setting up employers' organisations, associations of individuals, which effectively cancel collective agreements and the workers' rights and conquests that are still guaranteed. There are still some rights that are being abolished through the associations of persons. We want your answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, on the occasion of your question you raise a huge issue, such as that of collective agreements. You know very well that all the months of this tough negotiation - a negotiation on completely different terms from those that this place had known - because all the previous years we had been negotiating in name and not essentially - of the harsh conflict, because there are five months without a previous conflict - one would say that we are experiencing a situation of a peculiar undisturbed war, in which there are two concepts, both for Greece and for Europe - at its heart was and is the subject of collective bargaining. The Greek Government's intention is in its effort to pass a mutually acceptable agreement, to guarantee the possibility of restoring collective negotiations and changing the institutional framework. The fact that we met a rabies resistance from the partners reveals what their real target was. It was not, as we have been told for so many years, the householding of the budget or the limitation of the debt. The aim was mainly to change labour relations, the model of society, to shrink the social state and the workers literally to the mercy of employers' arbitrariness. Through the existing institutional framework, which literally dissolved labour relations without achieving, even for those who recommended these measures, the objectives that they wanted, namely to increase productivity, the competitiveness of the economy and business, workers have been marginalised, living in terrible insecurity, together with the reduction of their incomes and the dismantling of the institutional framework. We are living today in situations which have no precedent. We are attempting through the agreement, which at the moment we are talking about becoming a reality, open the way to break the Memorandum and allow, by forming a new field of racing, many of these issues that you have said to be done. And apparently, your highlighting about the subject of the association of persons is one of the dominant issues. Because the ability on the employer side to shape these so-called trade union structures, which are the long-handed hand of the employer, actually cancels the possibility of collective bargaining, but effectively undermines the trade union movement itself and all its forms of organization. We hope and aspire to the agreement - if it is achieved within the next few hours - so that in the very near future we can make a change in the previous Memorandum of Understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u9	Minister, it seems that the government is really negotiating hard. But this conflict and war do not concern workers' rights, as evidenced by the fact. The government has made it known that it accepts all the terms of the Junger proposal, where there is also the question of labour relations and the question of pensions and the issue of taxation, and is simply trying to get the commitment to debt expansion or debt restructuring. A debt that doesn't belong to the people. These are loans that the governments have taken to serve the needs of the monopolistic groups, and today, of course, it is said to be a solution, and it is a victory for the government that this is part of these debates. So let us accept this memorandum, let us accept these painful conditions imposed today by the European Union, by monopolistic capital and by its power to ensure the capitalist recovery. And we, after we got the debt, everything's fine. Minister, the workers today live in a hell. In 2012, sixty-eight such contracts were signed with associations of persons from the hotel owners. We'll testify to the Minutes to get them, even though I think you have them. In 2013, sixty-three such conventions were signed with associations of persons in hotels and foodstuffs. And now, in 2014 and 2015, thirty-seven collective agreements were signed by hoteliers and foodists, large chains, namely foodism. What is the main feature of these associations of persons? First, the remuneration at 586 and 511. So, finally, the sectoral collective agreement of the hotels. Secondly, the five-day period is not valid - it will be six days - and the working time will be settled with a management right. The third feature of these conventions is the abolition of all benefits, which existed in the sectoral collective agreement, and this allowance to be paid to workers will be that of pre-service and nothing else. And an article accompanying these collective agreements is that this contract outweighs all other contracts. We therefore have an institutional framework which effectively abolishes the collective agreements and your Government, since it has taken over, has taken no initiative, even to block the employer, to make it difficult for the employer to implement these conditions. I understand that you have the intention of restoring the institution. Yes, it's to restore the institution. Why do you not make it difficult for the employer to implement such conditions? It seems, therefore, that your main objective and your own is to ensure the cheap labour force that the capital wants today, especially the tourist capital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have here, Minister, voucher tourism. You have enabled hotel owners to use the NRP for training, theoretical and practical training and have filled hotels with students or vouchers with even cheaper labour power than the one currently foreseen by the associations of people, which are really, as we said, a jungle. So behind the living room there are the locusts of workers, slaves and slaves, and I believe that it is really shameful here that initiatives are not taken, that the minimum conditions and rules that have been left do not even apply, so that there can be an obstacle to this misery that exists today in the area of tourism. Because it's misery. Sadly, people go to hospitals every day. That is a tragic situation. He can't leave you indifferent. That's all, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u11	Mr Katsotis, you have made some good points - and I am pleased to hear them - regarding the role played by associations of persons, in relation to the possibility of circumventing sectoral conventions and undermining essentially, of refusing to apply the most favourable collective agreement to a sector. Let me tell you something, however, about what you described so nicely: why didn't you say a "bravo" when this bill, which has been published, includes all of this? Why didn't you bring your own forces together in these relationships, social and political, in this five-month battle, so that we could win as much as possible? Do you know what you're doing? All you do is from the secure, from a distance as Pontius Pilates to wash your hands and report, describe. This, however, is not a dynamic stand for intervention in developments. And that is what the workers and the Greek society as a whole have understood. And they gave you their messages in the referendum last Sunday, where you still did not realize the top moment of a historic battle for Greece and Europe, where once again we saw two different concepts clash: the perception of extreme neoliberalism, extreme austerity, which has been dominated by decades in Europe, which has brought Greek society to a standstill, in relation to another concept, which promotes the interests of the world of work, the small and medium-sized, the majority of society, so that we can meet the great, the basic needs of a different perception of Europe that does not undermine and cancel democracy. You saw that at the moment we did not only deny our plan for the economy, for society, the possibility of a country having the sovereign right to choose that one by means of a referendum will ask those concerned with the measures, those relating to their own lives, their opinions. And that was questioned. In this battle you were absent. I still want to tell you this: as a Minister of Labour we have now relaunched the concept of social dialogue. You denounced her. Of course, the value of the social dialogue, even in the micro-climate, you understand it when there are labour differences or when, quite rightly, trade unions that are yours are coming to the tripartite, and many things - and ask them to tell you themselves - we have in this negative context helped to resolve them. So that's where the value of social dialogue is? What's social dialogue? It's social and class conflict on other terms. That's what you need to understand. And that's why I'm asking you to land in reality and be more useful, not for us or for yourself, but mainly for the world of work. I would like to say this and end: what you said before, is not so, because even in this Juncker project - which does not exist - all these proposals, the fifth evaluation, are over at the end of the programme. The program is over right now. We're starting a conversation from another base. Obviously, everything that has been said has not been lost. There's on the table. We know what the connections are. We know that we are the weak side, and we have never hidden it, because we have frankly spoken about the difficulties, but no one can question our intentions. And our intentions are - and I think we will be able to do so - to have such a reference in the agreement that will give us the possibility of opening up a new field of racing, to change the institutional framework for collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u14	Mr Katsotis, you do not now have the opportunity. You know that by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u15	Because the Minister raised the question of the interpretation of the referendum, I have to say to him that it is very wrong to interpret 61% of 'no'. We have to tell him that several have voted against the memoranda, against anti-linguistic laws, against the European Union. However, this 'no' government summed up with the 'yes' of industrialists, hoteliers, New Democracy, PASOK, the river. And they went to the European Union, which is a union of monopolistic groups, business groups, to negotiate the hell of the workers. That is the reality and cannot otherwise interpret this choice of workers and the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u16	Good, Mr. Katatotis. The tenth third, with No. 350/15-6-2015, topical question of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the end of the reinvigoration will not be discussed after consultation of Mr. Economou with the Minister. We enter the second question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of workers in the plastic tubes and fittings industry in New Santa of the Regional Unit Kilkis. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis will answer the timely question. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are probably not aware that in one day 'yes' and 'no' were engaged, in a 'yes' at all, because that is where it goes. However, I would like to tell you this: whether you agree on all and reach agreement or not the agreement is reached, the marble will in any case be paid for by the people. I am referring in particular to the question we are discussing today concerning insurance and more generally the working rights of miners in Cassandra Halkidiki. It is an attack that has been evolving for twenty or twenty-five years. It's not just about our country. It concerns all European Union countries, whether they have a memorandum or not, whether they have debts or not. I would like to remind you, as far as our country is concerned, that this attack has started since '92 with the law of Janitsi - if I remember correctly. More forward or later was the law of Petrelia. The Reppa Act followed, Brutsi, and this attack continues. In particular, the workers at the tunnels in Cassandra are specific. From the Siufas law, the beginning of the 1993s, that is, while the retirement limit was in fifty years, it was in fifty-five years. The last of the fifty-five years went to fifty-seven years. Perhaps someone should say "let the early pensions that should be abolished and this limit increased even further". But you should know that the average miners' life is sixty - three years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, I would like to put - the rest in dentistry - these workers, for example, to carry out CT or X-ray examinations must travel more than eighty miles. There's nothing in the area. The second problem, therefore, is that pulmonary diseases cannot be considered immediately. Third matter. There is an unhealthy and dangerous labour allowance which is taxed because you consider it an income. While these benefits are received so that they can ensure the health of the workers. We ask, Minister, if you are going to reduce the retirement age for miners to 50 years if it has a tax exemption on the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work, what measures will you take as a government to cover health infrastructure in the wider mining area and if it is intended to strengthen control mechanisms to ensure the safety of workers in mines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u19	This is another question. It's become a mistake. Apparently it's for Mr. Army. The question to me is that it concerned "KERY" operation in Kilkis. In any case, I would like to comment on what you have asked for, but a mistake has been made. Yes or no? Tell me to understand. I ask the Bureau. Obviously, this is another question that is not addressed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u20	That question was announced, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u21	This is happening. We're in the same ministry anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u22	You're in the same ministry. Mr. Vardalis has two questions. One was to you. The other one, indeed, to Mr. Army. But he developed the one that's for Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Army will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Army will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u25	How do you want to have the conversation now, ask this question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u26	Excuse me. I asked the question about 'KARINA'. That's the one I gave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u27	The Bureau was right to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u28	Minister, if we do not have time, we will now discuss the sixth, number 360/16-6-2015, topical question of the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on measures to resolve the problems of workers in the Kassandra mines. The Minister will answer Mr. Skourletis and we will come back, Mr. Vardalis, when your turn comes to the question you have already raised for Mr. Army. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u29	Look, Minister. All these years of the capitalist economic crisis, like all employers, the plastic 'KARINA' industry, which is the main criterion of ensuring its profitability, has exploited all this anti-grassroots context. Not to mention it. Since 2012 he has asked the workers and imposed rotating work. Push the workers through an operational contract and lower wages by 30%. In 2014 he applied to enter Article 99 of the bankruptcy code as known. All this time he owed the workers from two to five months and now owes them due since January 2015. In the meantime, he's got a locker. He's made two bankrupt claims, which were rejected. Basically, workers are in unemployment. They're on a job pretext asking for them. The OAED does not pay them unemployment benefits. In fact, he has said to them 'we will see, depending on the agreement we are negotiating in the next few years, if we have money'. That's what the workers say themselves. Well, we're asking. What initiatives will you take to ensure that employees are paid their wages and what will you do to continue the permanent and stable work of the workers in this factory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u31	After we found out what I need to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u32	As long as there's goodwill, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u33	That's right, that's right. Let me tell you exactly what has happened over the past period. First of all, the problems with this company are not last. It's going quite back in time. Thus on 19-3 of the previous year a difference was made at the offices of the local Labour Inspectorate, in which the debt of employees was recognised by the employer. It was forty workers, but at the same time weakness was submitted. In January 2015, only the licence allowance was paid, while it was again found in a new labour dispute, which took place at the offices again on 23-4 and concerned 50 workers, the debt of not having been paid for March of '15' and again there was a failure on the part of the company - as stated - to pay what it had to pay. Both cases were filed with lawsuits. On 5-5-2015, there was an on-the-spot audit by the Labour Inspectorate. The same problem was again noted and it concerned fifty-seven employees. A third lawsuit has also been filed. On 8-6, i.e. recently, last month, it was re-checked and we had the same situation again. At the same time, insurance contributions are due, and that is just as big a matter. From 1-12-11 to 30-4-2015 the company has only paid in January of '12, January of '14, May of '14, June of '14 and nothing else. The result is to refer, on the basis of the procedures envisaged, to follow the path of forced collection by the IKA. That's what we've done. Of course, this kind of situation is constantly facing them and it is a huge issue at the moment. However, since you have referred to the workers, you cannot be told - and check your sources - that they were told to the OAS 'depending on the agreement, we will see what we are going to do' because yesterday - and ask these workers at the 'PTRADELICON' - I signed a joint ministerial decision to make a special allowance. However, because you are in a party that has access to the trade union movement, we must not only sum up discontent, but also play their part and the unions and trade unions so that we can do with the few, the poor means that we have and in the light of the difficulties encountered in these difficult circumstances, see what we can do. I can assure you that the intention of the Ministry of Labour is where there may be cases like the one you mentioned, so that we can initiate these procedures to help as far as possible. That's, on a case-by-case basis. As far as the rest is concerned, I think we have done so before, and we will have the opportunity to talk about it in the next few years. I think that if we understand the strength that the workers themselves might have, the mandate of the 62% referendum - which we did not sum up with the rest, we did not have a marriage, a conflict - and when you realise that the setting is being shaped today, I think it will be a decisive step so that, through the difficulties that exist, we can shape better conditions, first of all for the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u35	Minister, despite any interest you have shown in the words, I understand the following: of course, invoking the current legislation you cannot do - unless it is otherwise, say it - nothing to pay workers, because that is what is being called for. We understand that this is obviously not the only case. After all, in times of crisis much more, but also in the light of the development of competition, any operator who cannot afford this competition, closes and the first person who pays it is the workers. In any case, all workers' rights go for a walk. The question is this: Can the current government do something to stop this situation? That's the point. The second thing I want to say to you is this: let us take this factory as an example, which produces plastic tubes and cheap and quality products. I don't know how far this product arrives, but if you ask, plumbers all over northern Greece were working with it. That is their view. And cheap and good product. Do we need these products to make plumbing facilities? We do. Why is he closing this factory? Because overall the economy operates on the basis of profit and when this is not guaranteed, it draws a lock and throws the workers on the road. So there is a more general issue, how the economy is designed as a whole, and if no such ruptures are made, we are, of course, in the trade union movement and we are helping the workers' struggle to move in this direction, to strike the cause of the problem, because aspirins do not solve this problem. Today it turns out that the most realistic is precisely this issue: the fight of workers against the profitability of large capital, against the governments and parties that support this profitability, but also against the imperialist institutions that, at the heart of their attention, have the organisation of the economy based on profit rather than on the satisfaction of the people's needs. The workers will continue to fight and our information is one of the workers themselves, Minister. Of course, I invoke them because I went and tour this place. I don't know if this information is true or not, but that's what we say they're told by the OAED to wait. I don't know after ten or fifteen days then you should come back and discuss them again if you should go in or not get an exceptional allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Panos Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u37	I think that we don't find America when we say that the purpose of operating a business in today's conditions is profitability. This is nothing new, others have said it long before us, they have written it, there have been volumes on this subject. But be careful to see, on the other hand, that you are not defending a concept, because there have also been regimes which would not be characterised by interventions in the exploitation relationships between capital and work. Always, however, an enterprise must meet real needs and be organised so that it can offer something, not just exist to exist. I say this for this: Good description, but it must be grounded in fact. The comments we could make last year and last year and ten years ago and twenty years ago. It is important today how you intervene, how you organise labour forces, so that they set goals, create alliances, the right connections to bring changes, improve their lives and at the same time analyse different perspectives. Do not tell me, then, that you do not understand that, at the moment we are talking about, what has been done over the past five months, what has happened over the past few years, which has resulted in this big overthrow at the level of the government in Greece, in a Europe that has been led by the neoliberal forces, in a Europe that the European Parliament last year has opened up a debate before the eyes of the European peoples that had no precedent. Yesterday, it was written by the Greek Prime Minister, because things were said by their name and European leaders had to be placed in one way or another. So let us leave these commons, with their value, with their historical significance, with remarks and, if we really want to be useful in the movement and the workers, a strategy that sums up its powers to specific demands that at the same time their satisfaction will open up new roads. This is the big bet the history, this is the challenge right now for you and us. Will you tell me, do you hear them for the first time? Oh, no. And I don't know if you understand that, not you personally, I mean your party. Because the messages you have to take first of all from the workers and the people of the Left do not think they are such that they encourage you on this road that you have been following in recent years. It doesn't fit in this party, this kind of backdrop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u38	We enter the first under number 402/30-6-2015 top-level question of the first-round question of the Member of the Lakonia Parliament, Mr Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Castle Health Center in Laconia Prefecture. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. On January 18, 2015, one week before the elections, we were inaugurated by a Health Center in Kastori. Who's Castory? Kastori is a village of northern Laconia, the capital of the old northern municipalities, a town with a bridging rural life, with many young people, with people who deal with agricultural crops and with intense cultural life. There, then, the state chose six months ago to establish a health centre. The building, the structure, was granted by the Municipality of Sparta. There have been good interventions in support of it as a health centre, and since then, Minister, there is nothing else. It doesn't work, in other words. Why? Because there is no staff and health, but there is also administrative, which could support such a structure, such as a health centre. I think that's why I'm trying to disfellowship your intention, that you want it to work. Of course, there are objective weaknesses. I want to hear them. In any case, as much as at the time when the opening took place, we can see it as a suspect, under tax or other law - I mean that it was an election period - what we are concerned with is not going tomorrow in the area, as we are doing, and if we are haunted by every citizen, that for electoral reasons the state is building health centres or anything else. I think that a state response is that, yes, it may have been that period of suspect, but we continue, recognizing the usefulness of such a centre in this area, in a remote from the urban area, with particular circumstances - I will say it in my secondary speech - and we are moving on, trying to create those prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u41	My dear colleague, I think that the case to which you refer is a typical example of the unscheduled and fragmented development of infrastructure in the health system. There are many examples throughout the country, over time, since the establishment of the National Health System began. Many of these infrastructures, indeed, were then found in a real weakness to be covered by human resources and to serve the purpose for which they were created. I am pleased that you recognize the "self-employed" of the inauguration one week before the elections. This health center has a 20-year history about. Founded in 1993, as a centre for agricultural health. In fact, it has never been staffed and operated as a multi-powered regional office, and indeed, officially, since 2011, it has been converted into a multi-powered regional office, with a staffing that today remains marginal and is in line with this character. I mean, he has a general doctor, two rural doctors and a nurse. Its conversion into a rural-type health centre was made without the agreement of the 6th RCD, the legal authority to plan at regional level and to distribute human and material resources as best possible. Evidently, he served pre-election purposes. And the point is, of course, what we are doing today. It is quite clear that the thirty-eight empty organic posts provided for cannot be covered, in which there is even provision for a TEA official to run health establishments when such specialities are missing in large hospitals. What we need to do is to make a serious design, to which local communities, local bodies, health people in Laconia Prefecture, the hospital in Sparta. And under the supervision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to become a serious plan for the primary care of the wider region and the Peloponnese in general, and to find the role of each structure in this new project. That's in shape right now. We had - it is well known - set up a working party at the Ministry. He has brought us a proposition. We will consult it in the next few months with both the local communities and the institutions. And I think that in the fall we can have a bill with this object. Apparently there are uncovered needs in the area. Today's staffing is certainly a deficit, as is a deficit and many of the infrastructures that exist in primary care especially in our country's country's country's country. I think that the OSH is considering - I have contacted the OSH administration - the scenario of making use of the health centre's building infrastructure, that there should be a transformation of the multi-powered regional medicine. There are some legal issues there with the concession from the municipality, which I believe will be dealt with. So in the context of the new landscape, the new health map in the region, and particularly in primary care, I think we need to see the role and staffing and the possibility of strengthening the operation of today's hybrid - let me say - a precursor form of a health centre that works there with this very limiting staff. We must also see the population data and the immunological, epidemiological and transport data of the region again. And with maturity and consciousness of the scarcity of the resources currently in existence and the health system and our country, make the best possible choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u43	Look, Mr. President. I'm here to support his function. I won't get out of what you said might be irrational or fragmentary. So your obligation at the moment, based on the continuity of the state, is to rationalise it and to create that perspective for it to work. I'm not talking about a health centre we want to be. The Greek state went and took off the FEK of founding. But not just the FEK. They went medical machines there, a special space was created for radiological, which has some problems. It was shaped by the 6th HSY that the space was wider to be able to welcome patients. There's, like, that hybrid you said. So is it our choice to strangle the hybrid or make it work? I believe that at the moment - and I call on you - we must make it work. Because the state beyond the label, "Kastorium Health Centre, Ministry of Health and Welfare" and all the relevant - shame not to function, to be closed - has spent some money to work. The other data you've told me, they're pleading for its operation. It is in a remote area - not far from Sparta - in that it is excluded from weather conditions in winter with snow. One who needs health support can't go. It is next to the street of Lefktro - Sparta, which will, as a matter of course, work, so that it can welcome several serious road accidents of primary care. It has all this justification in order to make it work. You tell me that "I am Minister and I have these needs. I cannot put thirty-eight staff when Sparta does not have a director in Pathological, since she soon retires." I agree, but I think we should make it work. All these conditions which I have set out to you and many others make us say that at the moment your challenge is that, beyond the suspicious period we have said, you are moving in this direction. Now, the exam of the model and everything you say is fine, but they're a little quoted for postponement. I would also like your presence, at some point, to come down, and the state's general assistance, so that a structure of this type with machinery, with a building granted by the municipality, with all these conditions which advocate its operation, will finally have the positive attitude of the state. I understand the circumstances, I understand all that, forget the date of January 18, and let's see it from now on. Five months isn't working. Something has to be done to make us feel it's going to work. That is what I wanted to say to you, Minister, and I think you agree with that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u45	Look, Mr President, we obviously have no reason to behave, let us say, punishing ourselves against a local society, which has welcomed a new structure, which may have been made for political, clientele and so on. What we must say, however, is that now in a landscape in the public health system, which is under collapse and with terrible operational difficulties and needs, which are growing daily, we must now make a serious plan. We really do not have luxury, nor do we make use of infrastructures that exist, nor do we have human resources that do not contribute to the best possible use. Here we have an infrastructure that is slowing down. Our intention is for these infrastructures to be reviewed in the context of a more general planning, which must have the logic of sectoralisation, namely the provision of services close to the place of residence of people. This is a basic principle for both primary care and mental health, and I think we should consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u46	That's a representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u47	Yeah, we should take her into account. At the same time, however, we also need a conception of what we call democratic planning of services, which means design from below with the involvement of local communities and based on real and documented health needs of the population, not on localism, factorism, party parties, say, interests, etc. I think that no one disagrees on this principle. We are at a stage where we need a seriousness and maturity both from the political leadership and from the local communities and those involved in the health system. In this direction, we will move. We will be in touch with the administration of the 6th RCD, which is responsible for this planning. Colleagues who have been placed there are people of public care, have a very good picture of both hospitals and primary care structures, and I think that in consultation and in cooperation we can have a more efficient result in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u48	Can't you tell me anything more?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u49	No, I'm waiting for a recommendation from the U.S.S.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u50	Has the recommendation been requested?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u51	I have been asked to be informed that the other health bodies, namely the administration of the Sparta Hospital, the management of the Gymnasium Health Center, have also been consulted. Their views on the whole project for the region have been requested. These will be taken into account by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we will draw up a plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before moving on to the next timely question, let me make a statement. Mr.Ioannis Pakisotakis, Secretary General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group by letter addressed to the House, but also to the Bureau and to Mrs. Konstantopoulou he knows that on Sunday 5 July 2015 the New Democracy appointed its new President, Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u53	We enter the tenth under number 383/23-6-2015 topical question by the MP of Heraklion from the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the Health Center of Haraka, the Municipality of Arhans - Asterousias of Heraklion. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, five months of country's government over the SYRIZA - ANEL Convergence and the situation in the health sector is extremely unacceptable and dangerous, precisely because you have followed the trumped-up of previous governments without taking any substantial steps on this bump: doctors' deficiencies and intensification of work, workshops that are lagging behind due to a lack of staff and consumable material, long waiting times and incredible suffering for patients. For the specific Health Center Haraka Heraklion, which covers thirty thousand inhabitants, migrants, with fifty-six settlements, with a vast southern coastline with coastal settlements from Tsoutsoura to Koudoumas, with very many mountain villages, the situation right now is as follows: There are basic deficiencies in medical skills, such as cardiologist, gynaecologist, orthopaedic, general medicine, while a group of psychologists, who come one to two times a week to monitor three hundred patients, cannot respond to the real and increased needs. While there is intense crowding in the dentist, required at least two more than one currently exists. The health center has the pediatrician, who has been transferred to Venizelos and has loaded him with all the on-calls of the health center, starting from morning to 11 in the morning, examines thirty to forty children and especially in conditions of fluxation. The number touches the fifty to seventy children. There are five rural doctors for fifty-six settlements, as I told you, who only make prescriptions. And not only that, but they're bringing them to the health center to take the news. There is a significant lack of medical equipment, from toilet paper to hemorrhaging syringes. The local people are forced to make a voluntary contribution to getting through the health center. There has been a shortage of reactors in microbiological for four months and they have been forced to minister literally, when in the region and when in the population, in order to find the necessary amounts to meet the needs. There is a erosion of the display in the radiology department, while a major issue is the lack of an ambulance morning shift five days a week. Eight fatal incidents have been recorded in the various municipalities of this region. And not only that, but it also covers Vianno, another remote municipality, in the afternoon hours, because there is no shift in that area at those hours. As a result, then, it is the one ambulance that exists even four hundred and fifty miles a day. Besides, in order for the doctor to carry, for example, a heart attack to the Venizelos Hospital and to do fifty-five kilometers, the 7th ICU comes and tells him the doctor "You will return not with the ambulance, but you will pay 50 and 60 euros from your pocket to return, and after you have presented the evidence to the service, we will pay you." Are you asking the doctor if he has 50-60 euros with these wages and especially in crisis conditions and with the ATMs to get 50 euros to take the patient and return at his own expense?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u55	Finish, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u56	I shall conclude, Mr President. The issues of cleanliness are also important, because there is only one cleanser. There is a significant lack of nursing and administrative staff and there is also a lack of electronic connection to regional medical offices. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will you take to ensure that there is a direct staffing of the Haraka Health Center and regional doctors with a sufficient number of qualifications of permanent and nursing staff, modern machinery and equipment, to repair the radiological machine, to return the newspapers to the Haraka Health Center and the Arcane Regional Hospital, which is a very good building, but are four walls and nothing more, and to hire an ambulance driver to the Haraka Health Centre - indeed there is a proposal from there to set up an EKA area in the region - and, of course, to cover all gaps in medical equipment directly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u58	My dear colleague, once again you have problems and shortcomings regarding the care structures of your region and you are doing well. There are indeed problems, no one can deny them. Obviously we are not in a phase where the cub is the ideal function of the system and the ideal staffing. We have a health system in collapse. In the primary care, there were interventions - and I remind you of Mr Fitzgerald. 4238 at the beginning of 2014 -- which were solvents, especially for the treatment of large urban centers, and the world knows that very well. In the countryside, health centres have had shortcomings. It was an important section that existed in the 1980s, covered important needs of rural people and invested in equipment and human resources. The truth is that the health centre you are referring to is not one of the worst in terms of staffing, and that is what we should recognise and point out. And you recognize it, and I imagine you do. They're all regional doctors covered with ten general doctors. Recently there has been a departure, we have been informed and there will be a farm doctor's post notice in July, and I believe that this agricultural practice will also be covered in Tefeli. There is a pediatrician, a microbiologist, a microbiological laboratory operating, a renewal contract for reagents and the material for carrying out haematological and biochemical tests, there is a radiological laboratory with a technologist, which also had some problems with the films that have been dealt with. So the basic laboratory infrastructure of the health centre works. For nursing staff, the picture I have from the U.S. evidence is that it is relatively sufficient. I think there are the problems that you are saying with the shifts of the ambulances, which are important. There, in our view, is still a comprehensive regulation, we need to see what is going to happen with the ambulances of health centres, how they can be interconnected with the EAW and be integrated into the planning of the EAW for development and coverage as best as possible in all the regions of the country. So there are problems, we know. The needs are very great, they have increased in the period of crisis and the effort being made is with the limited human and material resources we currently have to make the best possible allocation and have a rational way of making use of the human resources and resources available to the system. In consultation with the Ministry of Crete, the 7th Ministry of Health, from which he recently visited the Health Center and the Chief and the Deputy Governor - who is in fact responsible for the issues of primary care - have assured me that he is in contact with the staff, with the address of the Health Center and in consultation, trying to solve the small daily problems. In any case, a broader plan for primary health care is still pending. We are drawing up a plan and I believe that Crete will have a very important role to play in this. There will be a pilot run-up to the new plan for primary health care drawn up by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you said Haraka Health Center isn't one of the worst cases. This does not mean, however, that it does not have serious problems that need to be addressed and that it is also urgently addressed. After all, we've never put a dazzle on which health centre has more problems, which is the health centre has less problems and so on. Therefore, the situation in Haraka Health Center, as recorded by the movement in the first three months of 2015, shows that it is a health center that covers a very large part of patients. The medical movement, for example, for the first three months of 2015 showed six thousand fifty three patients, the prescriptions were two thousand three hundred for one quarter and about five thousand are laboratory tests. So these numbers aren't small. All of this means that multiple staff, medical, nursing, administrative staff are required. It is a vast area, which means that it must have not only an ambulance, but two ambulances and cover all shifts, because at the same time it comes to covering areas of the Municipality of Minoa Pedada, Arkalochori area, but also the area of Vianno, as I told you. Your policy, which is a full integration and subordination policy in the European Union, in this wolf alliance which concerns health, whether or not there will be an agreement with a memorandum or whether you will take the people into bankruptcy with a Grexit or I do not know how else to say it, will actually be paid by the people in the health sector too. You have already agreed on the so-called financial council, which is a real resource for social expenditure from the budget, which will be hit before all health and education. You have accepted the OECD toolbox. You may say that your intention is to make - and you have a plan, as you said - primary health care, but here is a revealing attitude mainly through the 7th RS, which I know at least, especially in the case of the Ierapetra, where there are shortcomings and what you suggest? Let us also see your intentions, because in the end your intentions are not the same as you are expressing them. What do you think? Through voluntary moves to solve problems, through a service card to hire workers. You're addressing the district and you're asking them to give doctors a financial allowance so they can afford it. You are addressing the municipalities to cover the feeding and housing of doctors who will go there and at the same time remove, as a government, the resources from local and regional government. Are these your intentions? Is this your grand plan for primary health care? It is a challenge, Minister, and let us tell you that the JRC's proposal - and take account of you - is that there must be state health centres and regional hospitals near the places of work, housing, education, in all municipalities, covering all health and patient needs, with fully developed and co-operating services of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation of health and safety at work and public health, health centres which together with general and special state hospitals and the EAW will be a real single system. You have overshadowed everything as a follow-up to the political rallying that existed in PASOK and New Democracy. Serve bravely with staff rather than volunteer work or blocks and a royal decree of the 1950s you want to solve the problems in health centres and hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. In this system we are proposing, there will only be full coverage of the people's needs and there will be no excess health centres in the EEA - a health centre for the region - and no worker will be able to fight the JRC in this direction. And at this time when our people are being tested, they will enter the struggle of this people for survival, through committees of social solidarity, from the milk of their children to the possibility of having access to the hospital and to the health center, until committees for the control of the shamefulness of all issues. This is the JRC. When you 'double' them, the JRC comes out in front of defenders of the people's interests, and that is what we will do next.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u64	My dear colleague, we have had this debate on many occasions, and I think it is now time to repeat our general political disagreement. What needs to be realised is that we are not discussing the ideal functioning of the health system today. We are talking about a health system which, through a cumulative impact of negative interventions for five years and mainly because of the huge cut in funding, which is over 50%, when demand increased by 30% and the human resource decreased by 30%, has now been driven to a functional blackout. That's the situation. They break down public structures and fight the government, but above all the human potential of the system, to keep hospitals, health centres, primary health care structures, and to have access to them by the poor world, the insecure world of which we have access, and we are making it easier for them to do so. By broadening the institutional framework for uninsured people, we are trying to ensure access to these people, because there is no other option. This is the situation and, of course, at this difficult stage, we will make use of all the institutional tools that are in place, to hire people in good time, with any employment relationship and, of course, with permanent jobs. We've already announced a thousand and two and a half thousand. In the next period, there will be the design and proclamation of two and a half thousand permanent, medical, nursing, paramedical staff. However, because the process - you know it very well - is slow, there will be interventions in the mid-term of staffing and needs for subsidiary staff, even with five months, through public-private work programmes. He's here, and the Deputy Minister in charge. We make use of them in "block", but also in every legal way that the state is giving us today, we are trying to meet emergencies. The big problem is that especially with regard to doctors - you know it very well - in atrocious and insular areas there is a reluctance to join, despite the fact that there is unemployment, because the signal given - we have said it too many times - was that in this country, young doctors, young scientists have no prospect and have no future. Our aim is to reverse this climate, to give the message that scientists, who, by investing the state, have been educated and have an excellent level of knowledge, can now be exploited in the public health system. Low wages? With low wages, but with a view to gradually improving the situation and offering services. Obviously, all this also requires another financial framework. This battle is being fought by the government in Europe's institutions. We want to have an agreement that will allow us to put different political priorities. And we have said that public care and the social state is a top priority for this government, in a period of humanitarian crisis and health poverty. In the agreement of 20 February, there was an explicit reference to the need to ensure that people have the right to universal access to health services. This is a critical parameter and we will try in every way to ensure it, despite the difficulty of the situation and despite the objective problems that you correctly highlight. But we must be aware of the general picture. We will seriously design our intervention in primary health care. The 7th RCD has played a very innovative role in this. He has collaborated with the local administration of the metropolitan municipality and the two perimeter municipalities of Heraklion. There is a plan to develop reference units for primary care, a neighborhood office, which we will organise and slowly try to serve, so that there is a significant improvement in people's daily lives. We are in agreement with the general principle that you have formulated for the model of primary health care. This is what we need: sectoralised services near where people work and live. There is the nuclear element of this idea, and it is the family doctor, the health team, the shift to prevention and the promotion of health, the interventions in the environmental factors producing disease. I think this should be the turn of the health system as a whole. In other words, we want to reorganise the collapsed system with emphasis on primary health care. That's our intention. The structures currently in existence must be based on the greatest possible extent, but must be based on certain priorities and by providing a basis and hierarchy of the needs of a landscape completely bombed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. We enter the second with number 387/23-6-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the River Mr. Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of OAED's Professional Learning Schools. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Urania Antonopoulou. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the OAS's Professional Schools of Learning, which implement the dual education system or otherwise apprenticeships, could play an important role in the country's economic reconstruction, especially at a time such as the one we are going through, where unemployment, particularly among young people, has recorded historically high rates. It is a tool, one of the many tools that we could have - and that exists - to tackle youth unemployment. We must also note a qualitative feature, that graduates from OAED Schools are mostly addressed to the private sector as freelance professionals and it is particularly important today when we want to decompress the public from the well-known and six years-long path in which everyone has turned to public certainty. It should also be noted that students of OAED Learning Schools are mainly children from weak social classes. So the alternative, if they don't work the way the OAED Learning Schools should, is private IEK - with what this implies to their families - and of course the OAED Learning Schools are a tool that can help them move away from the range of either unemployment or immigration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please give me a minute, Mr President. However, in the school year 2014-2015 - and here we must note, of course, that the main problems are due to addressing the individual issues from the previous government, but they still exist and we must also note that in the OAED Schools there are over 12 thousand students in Greece - last year, that is, schools began their operation beyond two months. This has led to delays in their staffing by the mature teachers, who account for about 70% of the total training staff, because they have been delayed signing contracts. They started signing around November 10th. This resulted in a chain of problems. I would point out that an act of the Court of Auditors creates further problems in determining the payrolls. So they sign contracts without the amount of money, which will also get the result of this incredible reality, is that they start paying the hours worked after four months of their own work, and indeed with part-time and different per region. This leads to another unfavourable result, that the delayed recruitment of teachers does not allow them the margin, because they do not meet the criteria, to join the Unemployment Fund during the summer months. Various efforts are being made, from joint ministerial decisions to other decisions, but within the range of bureaucracy and the malfunctioning of the public administration. And as if not all of this were enough, an unacceptable decision of the OAS's Department of Initial Vocational Education and Training, which is signed on 12-6-2014, under the title: "Successful departures of teachers", obliges the workers to be fired before the end of the training year and even before the examinations were completed. Apart from the malfunction and the problems that this act creates, it exacerbates the - as I described just now - the problem of wages in relation to their wages and the problems they have with their various funds. Obviously you have to bear in mind these problems that have accumulated. It's not because of you as a whole. I would therefore like to ask whether you have done some deeds or are intending to do something to eliminate all these malfunctions and problems for the long-term unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u67	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. You have essentially referred to one of the two questions you have asked initially. You will allow me to take a little time to answer the question you have not developed, simply in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u69	I'll develop it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u70	Very good. So let me start with this. Mr Dannelly, I fully agree with you. We agree that OAED Learning Schools play a very important role, especially in local society. I am delighted to say that the staff are well-trained and provide their services to apprentices who, when they graduate, find employment in the private sector at very high rates, as you have said. The problem you have submitted is real and, as you also said, we inherited it from previous coexistence. Let me explain a little how it happened. This problem was created as a result of a long delay in the start of the school year 2014-2015 in the ESDP Schools, the OAED Professional Schools, and therefore the recruitment of the hourly teachers to become late and do not fulfil the conditions laid down in the relevant provisions in order to be included in the lists of subsidised unemployed. We note that every summer the well-trained teachers, as you mentioned, are unemployed because they are closing schools. And so, they are subsidised, as long as the condition has been met: From the day of dismissal the last two months have been removed and in the 12-month preceding the previous one there must have been a hundred and twenty-five days of insurance without any other subsidy. This was not the case for the 2014-2015 period. All I can assure you is that for the school year 2015-2016, the appropriate programming has been made and we have taken the necessary steps for the smooth start of the new school year so that this problem will not be repeated. Thus, school teachers will normally be included in the lists of eligible unemployed, while there will be no loss of teaching hours for pupils as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor. I would ask you to be in time as long as you can. The Bureau will give tolerance, but let us be a little shorter, because there are a lot of questions to be debated and you know very well that we have a roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I'll limit myself to my time. I would also like to thank the Minister for her reply. Because the problems that have arisen in the previous school year are not due to the payroll, I do not know whether there is any legal means to restore at least those who, for a few signals, lose the possibility of joining the Unemployment Fund. I do not know if that is possible. I guess it's hard, sure. But I would point out again that these problems have not been created because of them. The second question I had tabled in my question concerns the specific organisation of departments at the schools in Heraklion. More specifically, - because the issue is of more general interest - it is known that precisely because these schools work efficiently for the real economy and the market, at times professional bodies take initiative and ask for and support the functioning of new specialists in the EPAs. In Heraklion, in particular, next year, it is going to work out a specialty for Artificial Electrical Systems of the Automobile, following a great effort by both teachers and institutions of the city, who support this effort. At the same time, however, while there is an increased interest in terms of students and despite the unanimous recommendation of the Association of Teachers of Heraklion, OAED's decision makes specialisation cuts for this year. There are no plans to join Heraklion students in the Support Systems Artificial Support Systems, for the year coming, although the employment of students in these specialties is particularly high, 97% and 70% respectively, which is of course considered to be a criterion for the continuation of a specialization. The criterion is the 60% limit. This decision of the OAED administration also provides that the total of students for the coming year will be two hundred forty two students. This is less than any other region. I will give you the example of the three hundred and twenty-four students in the Epirus region, which is a smaller region. If we refer to some urban centers, I will give you the following information: Two hundred and twenty students will be introduced in eleven specialties, one hundred ninety students in nine specialties in the EPA Larissa and only one hundred and fifty-four students in seven specialties in Heraklion. Because there is interest, efficiency and hug from local bodies, I do not know whether you intend to amend or request that this decision of the OAED be amended so that they can see Heraklion's request again, since it can be rationally supported and achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to point out that, as you know, the reduction of qualifications has been done in relation to these OAED schools, which is one I am supervising, because of the Memorandum obligations we have had, which is why it was continuing until recently. Let me say, therefore, that despite these constraints and the extremely difficult economic circumstances, both in Greece and in Heraklion, in particular - because it is your question - we have planned to operate in the new school year almost all the specialities proposed by the EPA of Heraklion Crete. I should therefore like to point out that among the specialties that have been announced are the Artificials of Electrical Work, as well as the Artificial Electrical Systems of Cars.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u75	The other two stay out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much to the Minister. We are now entering the third with number 396/30-6-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Helen Gerasimidou, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the State Theatre of Northern Greece. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mrs. Gerasimidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have been coming back to an issue that has been unresolved for some time. You are aware of the serious problem of the State Theatre of Northern Greece. I think it is unnecessary to say about the important work that the State Theatre has offered for 50 years and because it is well known to you, but also because we feel that culture is still being treated as luxury from your own coexistence. State funding has reached a 40% reduction. The debts that the Theatre did not make and have been charged to him remain, such as the debt that the people did not make. The answers given by your Ministry do not correspond to the seriousness of the problem. So we are asking again what measures will be taken to ensure that the payment of state funding is equivalent to the needs of the IBR, that it is of course time and that a solution is finally made to the problem of debts for which the State Theatre is not responsible, that all workers - actors, administrative and technical staff - receive a permanent and stable job with full employment, wage and insurance rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Gerasimidou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u79	Madam Colleague, thank you for the opportunity you have given me with your question. Yes, I know the problem of the State Theatre of Northern Greece is great. We can describe it in very bold lines as a problem of constant and difficult dealing with a debt and a suffocating economic situation. In studying the economic and management aspects of recent years, we have led to a first conclusion that, apart from the gradual reduction in the grant in a bankrupt state - let us not forget this - a society that suffers as a whole and a economy that has shrinked, this reduced grant has also been reduced. However, the reduction is not so dramatic. It's not 40%. It is smaller in the years of the crisis. That's the first. Secondly, a first picture that one can obtain, by studying the financial and management elements, is that the management of this great Agency does not match the management that should be carried out in a country that is suffering and in a country where they have frustrated both the state funds and possibly the income. I can only tell you that, at a glance over the last three years - in 2013, 2014 and 2015 as long as it runs - we understand that the level of remuneration of staff and third-party wages is well above, from 7% to 37%, the amount of State subsidies. Revenue is falling, while production costs are around the same. As the years go by and while the theatrical public's power is shortened to come to the performances, production costs are the same. What do I mean? I mean, every supervised artistic organization belonging to the general government receives a sum. With this amount it is obliged to cover its inflexible costs, wages and fixed operating costs and from there to make a programming, to see what it can offer in these new difficult circumstances. It seems that this adjustment has not been achieved, there has been no savings in resources, a new redistribution of resources and a new strategy in the new historical environment. We reach a constant bleeding. As far as the debts, which you spoke very rightly, a debt has been charged to the State Theatre of Northern Greece, which, too, I consider it unfair and the debt of about 1.4 million euros that comes from the abolition of Opera Thessaloniki. That is why we are in a negotiation with the Ministry of Finance, which is in a difficult position, to incorporate it into the budget of the state and not to load it up. All its other debts are a refund of VAT, which the tax office does not accept, because it is under investigation, it has tax cuts and a huge debt in the IKA, which we have achieved with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Social Security to make a regulation. There is an administration, which does not match the new situation our country has been experiencing in recent years. We are in favour of the workers and all the orders and money we have given from this low state budget being covered in order to cover workers' jobs. Unfortunately, we do not have a clear and complete picture, because we respect the autonomy of the agencies and respect the evidence they give. That's the evidence they give us. They didn't make the same adjustment of IKA's debt. We intervened with the ministers to make a adjustment of this debt to lessen the burden. We have ordered the last 900 thousand euros to be given priority to the workers, the unpaid and also to cover part of the debt they have on a stage, the Lazares Monastery, from which people are also paid out of the rent that the theatre gives. Yesterday I received a letter from a musician who tells me that "they owe me a reward since 2013". There is a complete ataxia in the flow of people who have worked and regular workers and temporary workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u80	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt. You have a secondary right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u81	I would therefore describe this situation. I have evidence in my dentistry and I'll complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u82	Minister, thank you. Mrs. Gerasimidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, these are known to us. As far as VAT is concerned, as far as we know - because we have also spoken to people there - there is no reason why it should not be returned. This is the answer from the State Theatre. Also, there is a huge debt from Dimitris and to artists and to managers who have worked for this great event in Thessaloniki for years. Last time my colleague, Squadron, asked you a question about the State Theatre, your answer was generally in terms of mismanagement. Speaking to the Director, Mr Vouros, he told me that he had also asked the previous leadership of the Ministry of Culture to carry out control. And because in a previous question I had asked you about the Lyceum, you told me that artists should also learn to live like the whole world - I don't know exactly what you mean, I don't have such information, that they get huge sums of money - I have to tell you that you're addressing the wrong people, and personally and generally. We all know the rewards very well - I've worked at the State Theatre too - and we all accept them. I don't think that's our problem. No one is going to be well paid to a state theatre, except for the few cases that have occurred. I don't think that's what's happening in the state. We are talking about people who give their whole soul to tents and to the periphery, and we are talking about debts - apart from the Opera debt, which I hope you will really face - and the VAT that there is no reason not to return from the Demetrius. We believe that bringing a state scene into cooperation with private bodies - something that has been done by the previous administration - if it is within your objectives, does not prove beneficial to the theatre as well. We have the example of Mr Kirkinesus, and I can describe my findings from my meeting with the actors. While here it became "the lunatic" by tickets, they lived in a cosmic, ate each other, or Stavros Xararchos fed them. These are things I saw with my eyes. Therefore, if our state tents pass into donor hands, you understand what is going to happen. Neither will the actors - these wonderful actors who may not be very familiar, but who are wonderful - can be rewarded as they should and everyone will do what they want. As far as the measures - according to your reply to a relevant report - which the Ministry of Culture intends to take on rationalising the administrative structure of state theatres for their more effective operation and for the shielding of the public interest, as you say, you will allow us to note at the moment that they are in the context of your dear ambiguity. In conclusion, we will tell you that we will come back as long as the issue of the TSE remains unresolved despite the objections you are using. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Gerasimidou. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry and I would ask you to be within time limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u85	Mrs. Gerasimidou, I'll say a few words. You're right. You know the theatre and the conditions under which actors work in the state theatres. You also know the conditions under which actors work at the free theatre. I think - you know better - that they have nothing to do with each other. In the state theatres get better wages, they have full coverage and they respect every detail of their work contract. At the free theater the actors are starving, those who still have a job. Most of them don't. So let's move on. So I tell you that we have already ordered management control. We will see to it that we go to an administrative reform and the natural persons of the theatre. At the moment, a bill is finally being drafted, which will change the laws of founding law and the National and State Theatre of Northern Greece. In our view, the legislative framework has been strangled. They're very personal. It gives financial advantages to the artistic director, which I don't think he should have. He must be the absolute master in drawing up the artistic programme, but he must not be uncontrolled in economics. These are some of the initiatives we take. When you're referring to debts, I know what you're talking about. As far as Dimitria is concerned, this is a dispute between the State Theatre and the Municipality of Thessaloniki and is not involved by the Ministry. I also want you to know that we respect the self-interest of artistic organizations. The supervising ministers must not be involved at all times, because this reproduces a pathogen that has led the country to this situation. The people who take over an organization must know that they have a duty for their survival and for the achievement of their national purpose. This is our position - if you want me to give you the detailed financial information, to know what we are talking about - and I hope very soon, in this Chamber, you will read the legislative arrangements that we will make in theatres and in their founding law and find you an interlocutor and a representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fourth question under number 392/29-6-2015 of the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning the abolition of the special year of the Ministry of Education for the appointment of multitude of teachers in Secondary Education is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. And we enter the first under number 403/30-6-2015 topical question of the Second Cycle of the New Democracy MP Christou Bukorou to the Minister of Finance about the heating oil allowance. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Dimitrios Mardas. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u87	Minister, I understand that, in fact, my question has become unreasonable. I know you're experiencing much more acute problems. Of course, I can inform you that the question was retabled, because the first time it was directed to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction and Energy and then it came to the Ministry of Finance. I would like to hear the figures on the progress of repayment to the beneficiaries of the amounts in question. Of course, all the Greeks these days are anxiously following developments. We do not know exactly what will happen in the negotiations that are taking place. I hope that on Sunday we have good news and that the country will return to normality and regularity and not be led to adventures. Of course, you know our positions on this matter. I also understand the difficulties that arise from your position. It is difficult to be the accountant of a company that is in debt, let alone the chief accountant of a government with the country be in the situation we all know. But, Minister, the refund of the heating oil tax you know that it concerns economically weak, mainly pensioners and employees. However, in general, the Government has not shown a good person since the day of its taking up its duties in the discharge of its obligations, due or due, to third parties, which has increased. I believe that this is mainly due to the lack of income that is observed for various reasons. However, with the refund of the heating oil tax and, in general, the refund of taxes, Minister, such as VAT to importers and other categories of operators or citizens, I think these delays have an impact on the so-called real economy. In other words, the retired or employed person waiting for the refund of the heating oil tax will certainly not move this little money abroad. On the market, they will, in consumption, be, in the real economy. You know that EUR 400, 500 or 600 - because these are mainly the sums for most of the beneficiaries - are a wage. They are the incomes of one month and where pensioners expected the tenth pension, they lose one more, they credit the state for several months with these specific delays. I would therefore like to know how credit is progressing on the accounts of the beneficiaries, although you know better than anyone, Minister, that at this time with capital controls in our banking system, even though they have been credited to the accounts of the beneficiaries in the last month, access is impossible, since people cannot collect their pensions and salaries. I would therefore like the evidence to show how this repayment has evolved. I hope now, at the beginning of July, that the credit to the accounts of all the beneficiaries has been completed, but, as I said at the beginning of our position, all of this seems to be a little distant and unpopular in the economic and political environment that we have been experiencing in recent days and in the time of extension of capital controls to the banks, you realise that all these problems are growing and do not, of course, only concern macroeconomic figures that you are facing. They are primarily about the real economy and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. The Minister has the floor, Mr Mardas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, I answer your questions. A total of around EUR 210 million was foreseen this year. The total of the beneficiaries is a million thousand. To date, what had to be done has been done. But there remains a balance of 20 million left, which we want to pay in July and to close the account. What I would like to say in this particular case - and I have just asked for it, but I have not found it - is this: it would be appropriate, when this provision was built, and when you decide to set certain criteria with which someone was designated as beneficiary, to separate the beneficiaries from people at the northern border, in the middle and south borders. Perhaps we should also have a classification per income. How would that help us? When we face a problem of liquidity, you can see that we need to place emphasis on the northern and the centre of emphasis rather than those in Crete, to emphasise those who have very low incomes and those who have far less, in the sense of height, incomes. Because it was observed on many occasions that, while we had given the orders, many commands were not implemented. In what sense? The person concerned did not go to take his money, especially those who probably should have had a high level of income. If we had such a presentation, you understand that these 20 million that would have been theoretically reserved would be for some in Crete or some in the southern Peloponnese and we would not create social problems from giving 'blank' - in introductory terms words - this money without knowing who the beneficiaries are, in the sense of the geographical area or income. As far as the balance is concerned, it will not be given. In what sense? We are about to table a provision of a law that will change the regime and have the old regime of the oil and heating tax. Our proposal is 6 minutes for heating oil and 33 minutes for diesel fuel. We cannot take oil down because there is a Community directive. Therefore, there will be no reason to have this provision and so it will be closed. We are not afraid that we will have tax evasion because of the regime in force earlier, because by the end of the year all the effort will be complete, with the help of which the entire oil handling system will be locked off from the tax warehouses until the last station. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u91	Minister, I understand that about 10% of the beneficiaries have not received the refund of this tax. You also gave us news about the changes you're going to make. In practice, they will be judged. You know that in the matter of smuggling, fuel tax and all that, everything is in practice judged. Unfortunately, the intentions are not enough. What I would like to point out is that, if I understood correctly, you also announce a legislative initiative to change all these issues with geographical and income criteria. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that in the previous years too, difficult liquidity problems have not been created and there has also been a repayment of all of the state's obligations to the parties concerned. So it was a little hard to have such a prediction. When there is liquidity and everyone is paid, it certainly does not go to such an distribution so that it is even fairer and in any case, to serve those who face greater needs. Because your government has told you many times that it will deal with these issues of fuel smuggling, alcohol, tobacco, etc., I would like to point out that we still have not seen results, Minister, but announcements. I hope at some point that we will also see results, because this is all for the benefit of the national economy. Minister, on the occasion of your presence today, I would like to point out something else, and that is what I shall conclude with. We are discussing in the context of the negotiation of an increase in VAT rates in various goods, in the islands, etc., which you know is an unfair tax. We all know that. We have not discussed at all - or at least I have not heard your Government discuss - the increase in VAT collection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, the loss of VAT revenue on an annual basis in our country amounts to EUR 6.5 billion. You understand the value of having a collectivity of 90% or 100%. Of course, it is not just your government's responsibility, it is certainly the previous governments too. But now we have arrived at no further. We are in a situation where you know it and I do not need to come back. So why are we talking about an increase in VAT rates, and we are not discussing or looking for ways of increasing VAT collection, which is the state's main tax? I repeat that 6.5 billion euros annually are losses and the Greek state still faces the evidence of retail and invoices in many cases as unvalued papers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I feel that the proof and the invoices in this country must be given the value of money. Only in this way will the loss of VAT be addressed. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u93	We have, of course, extended to other issues. There is, of course, a problem with the collection of VAT. It's nothing new. You'll see how to deal with the issue of tax bills coming. Already the types of controls on the part of the ILO have changed. They're not the ones that used to be. On these issues, of course, Mrs Valaváne, who is responsible for this, may be mentioned. I'm going to talk about the oil you said. Watch what's going on. In two and a half months we have prepared - and are ready - the four joint ministerial decisions they need. There is also a need for an amendment to complete these joint ministerial decisions, which the relevant ministers have in their hands. In the tax bill that comes now, you will see two legal provisions relating to the specific problem of fuel traffic. Immediately the joint ministerial decisions will come out, which means that we seek, as I said before, to lock the system down. As far as the results are concerned, they shall all be judged by the result. But what I want to tell you is about the things that have not been done in the last two or a half years since the last law or, if you want, in the last 12 years, because the first law was in 2002. We finished it in two and a half months. As you said, clearly we will judge the result. But what we're interested in, like we said, is to lock the system down. This means applying what needs to be applied and then we will see the result. We will then judge whether something has been missing, and we will have to complete it in order to think that nothing will be missing. Because in the previous provisions, since the debate took place - and I wonder why this was because - while you correctly put in the input-out systems in the tax warehouses, you did not put them in the free warehouses. A simple word was the rule of law. And the free...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u94	Is there a reason, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u95	There was a very important reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u96	It wasn't random!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u97	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Nicolopoulos, don't interrupt. Please! The question has been raised by another colleague. If he wishes himself and with the tolerance of the Bureau, we might be able to accept a question. Please don't interfere. Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u99	I'm just saying it's just because we're having the conversation. Therefore, we are trying to introduce what is needed in the system for its protection and we are closing down. And we will see the result of these actions, because they are the "sleeps" as you know, where some systems will enter. We therefore believe that we will have a modern fuel monitoring system. Therefore, this allows us now to differentiate the single tax on heating and driving oil. The view I expressed to you on what had to be done, in that it would be a good thing to know about the North, the South, and so on, because this provision will disappear. Of course, it would be a law to anticipate everything. This means that we are clearly applying the law, as we have to apply it. However, we often have some limitations that force us to be subject to overdue debts. That is what any government is dealing with not only in Greece, but also abroad. And you were dealing with it. Therefore, in this provision that you rightly introduced, this distinction could be introduced and we could now have had this facility with regard to the payment of benefits to people who were most in need in relation to those who had less need, in the sense of climate conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u100	Minister, have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u101	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, may I have a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u103	You can now understand, Mr President, that this is not the case under the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing with the number...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, will you allow me? You said you could give me the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u105	I didn't say anything, Mr. Nicholas. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u106	It's written in the Minutes what you said. You said you could give me the floor to ask for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u107	I didn't say that, Mr. Nicholas. I said that by addressing Mr Bukouros, whose question we were discussing at that time. I said that other Members should not intervene when we discuss someone else's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u108	It doesn't surprise you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u109	The matter is now closed. Please. Please. We're continuing with the number...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u110	I'll ask you a question later. I'm surprised why..
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u111	Please very much, Mr. Nicholas. I think that so far we have had a very good and decent process. I don't know what this House says. If you have come here to disturb this calm process, I do not consent to that. I'm removing your word. Do not record anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u112	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u113	Being emotive is understandable. I won't follow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u114	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u115	Please calm down, because we still have a few topical questions, and you know that at about 13: 00 there is a roll-call vote. So we shouldn't waste our time. We enter the second under number 389/25-6-2015 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the River Mr.Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the recognition of the graduate degree in higher education in Dramatic Art as equal to that of the graduates of TEIs or the KEE of Dramatic Art, in order to be appointed for the teaching of the theatrical education course in primary schools. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Aristides Baltas. Here, Mr. Orphane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u116	Minister, with my current topical question, I am unfortunately not original. The subject I am bringing to debate, which concerns the equivalence of graduates in dramatic schools, has repeatedly dealt with parliamentary control with questions that have been asked in the past and almost all parties. I will say very soon that the graduates of the dramatic schools, other than working as an actor, have the right to teach the class of Theatrical Education. This course, according to the detailed programme as well as the book of lessons, must be taught by actors. Specifically: For teaching in primary schools, actresses (IP 18.41) and theatrologists (IP 32) should be recruited under a quota of 50 % of each industry. In other words, 50 % of one industry and 50 % of the other. In the sector 18.41 they belong to and have the standard appointment qualifications for those who hold a TEI or ERIC of Dramatological Art or Drama Schools of Active Art of the nationally recognized HEI as equal to TEI or KEE. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Unfortunately, the Greek actors, who hold diplomas recognized by the Ministry of Culture of Active Schools, have been in a strange hostage status since 2003, when the Institute of Technological Education (IT) ceased, without any warning, to grant the necessary assurances for the appointment of equivalence to the graduates of Higher Schools of Drama. Today, the class of Theatrical Education, both in the pilot full-day primary schools, which have been operating since 2010 with funding from the NSRP, as well as in the artistic and high schools, is taught mainly by theatrical theatricalists, as few actors who have the necessary to recruit them in public education are few. It is clear that the unaware abolition of HETH has created tragedy situations, as we have graduates in the same year with different rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The problem as I said is well-known, and it requires such legislation to be resolved. Thus, rightly so, when the new multi-legislative draft for education was published on 7 June 2015, in its first version, in Article 68, there was a provision that partially resolved the matter. However, in the final version of the plan, which has already passed the consultation, this provision is not available. Then I ask you, Minister: First, in what sense was the provision of Article 68 removed from the draft law in question? What exactly did he get through? And secondly, if you intend to solve the problem of the absence of a body responsible for granting equivalence to graduates of dramatic schools in another way and, if so, to whom? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Orphan. The Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Aristides Baltas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u118	First of all, I thank Mr Orphanus for the timely question and basically we agree. In other words, we agree that this strange legal regime exists for the graduates of the dramatic schools since you mentioned in 2003. We agree that these people should be able to teach. We also agree that the subject of all artistic studies is too great. We have put the provision in a draft consultation for the start of consultation. Objections were raised as to how this provision can be generalised in a wider area of interest for so-called artistic courses in schools. And now, because this is a very complex problem, and it cannot be dealt with as we hoped in the period between the previous draft and the consultation, we intend to reintroduce the provision, with a few amendments of a legal nature, when the bill is now gone, for the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights - which is gone today - and normally go to the Committee on Culture, etc. So I think that this is what you are asking us about. From there on, we also want your assistance, of course, when we face the whole problem of artistic studies, the qualifications of teachers there, the safeguarding of their profession, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Orphane, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I feel very relieved for the recognition of this malfunction, which concerns a sector which is unresolved by the economic crisis and certainly has no opportunity to deprive itself of any professional choice. Now that the multiple choices they have had so far are slowly fading, this injustice is understood. I would, however, like to raise my question as to how the problem will be solved by the granting of the diplomas' parity, Minister. That is a matter. We do not think that Article 68, as it was set up, created some kind of generalisation, which we will be very happy to discuss in committee, to see what malfunction it may create in other similar sectors. For we also consider that the actors, who are aware of the practical side of the Theatrical Education, are fully empowered to teach it, since their parity in practice is also demonstrated by the fact that, in order for an actor to be able to teach, he also takes the teaching capacity. This means that it is now going to an equivalent of four years of study, although the dramatic schools are three years of study. Here, of course, it opens up another field of the future with regard to the supremacy - this big issue - of the dramatic schools. We'll have time to talk. What I wanted to ask you - we will of course also tell the committee - is how you intend to put the issue of the equality of graduates so that we do not have this injustice, that is, that others have had time to testify to it and that others have not been able to do so any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Orphane. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. In the same logic, there is a whole problem, which is not only about artistic courses and art schools in relation to parity, because the whole of the previous regime has somehow excluded artistic studies from equalizations with TEIs, metalylate studies and so on. As you have suggested, the problem is too big. There are many injustices that have so far been registered throughout the legislation. What we are doing now, which we are reintroducing this provision, is a first small step towards the lifting of old injustices. From now on, as we have already announced, in a law, which we hope to bring to Parliament in about a year's time, we will take into account all kinds of imbalances and unequal speeds and differences in fundamental qualifications in relation to formal qualifications, so as to complete a framework for the exercise of professions and for graduates' schools to lift as far as possible total injustices from the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister. The third, with number 397/30-6-2015, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the payment of the training received by the teachers of the pan-Hellenic examinations, is not being discussed due to a blockade by Mrs. We enter the eighth under No 372/22-6-2015 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Ieolokarnania Parliamentary of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the transfer of the three university departments of Agrinio to Patras. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am conveying to you the anger, anger, anger and disillusionment of the citizens of my Prefecture of Ioannina, for the unacceptable decision of the Patras University of Patras Senate to transfer the three university departments of Agrinio to Patras. This decision undermines the professional future of graduates who are concerned about the deterioration of their diplomas and their professional rights. It surrounds, by the citizens of the county, their cultural and intellectual reference. The Senate invokes, Minister, excessive maintenance costs. Why did these objections not become known when the Athena project was being drawn up? It's a question. What changed in two years - academic years - and the University of Patras states weakness for the continued operation of the three university departments in Agrini? Minister, the project "Athena" reached the University of Patras the property of the University of Western Greece: the building facilities of the University, which amounted to nine thousand square feet, and the bank deposits amounting to about 1,800,000 euros. All of this for the smooth operation of the sections of the Agrinio. The old Agrinio Hospital was also proposed in order to rebuild and operate as a modern student accommodation and feeding area. I also mention that the University of Western Greece before being abolished by the project "ATHENA", had prepared a study to carry out the buildings of the University Departments of Agrinio on a plot of seventy-eight acres. The ready proposal, costly, still stays in drawers. I wonder, then, that some people do not want these three university departments to function in Agrinio at the end of the day? And I ask you, Minister: does everything I mentioned above not constitute solutions? The Strategic and Spatial Planning Committee for the Higher Education of your Ministry will be invited to accept the decision of the Senate. Are you going to prevent that? In this Chamber, Minister, Mr Kourakis has committed himself not to stripping Agrinio from the services they offer, and he has also committed us to bringing all the institutions of the county in consultation with the Ministry to find solutions to the aid side rather than weakening the university departments. And I ask you: do you intend to strengthen university structures in Agrinio and within what timetable? Finally, Minister, if the University of Patras fails to support the continued operation of the three university departments, both economically and academicly, we, all the institutions of the Prefecture of Iatokarnania, ask for the establishment and reopening of the University of Western Greece based in Agrini. So would you support this proposal? I would remind you that you were electorally committed not to making any changes to the country's academic map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u126	Thank you for the timely question. It is in the logic of answering the previous time-consuming question what I have to say. Indeed, we agree. The map of higher education in our country is extremely confused. It was further confused with the "ATHENA" project, which created injustices of all kinds, merged sections which should not be merged, disconnected sections which should not be disconnected and so on. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] With regard to Agrinio and Patras, we had repeatedly contacted the dean and had asked her not to make such decisions, since we considered them hasty, without taking into account the complex criteria which should be reflected in the process of reforming the map of higher education. Go ahead as it goes. We disagree with this decision and do not intend to ratify it as a Ministry of Education, although we respect, of course, the self-interest of the foundations and the decisions of the Senate. And we do not intend to ratify it, precisely because the whole problem of the parts of the Agrinio is important. We contacted both the students and the institutions of these departments. Their arguments are strong. It needs to be examined in depth, and I repeat, the whole S.H.I.E. landscape and its geographical distribution. The criteria must be complex and academic and local and life-conditions of a university department in a place etc. And as I have said to Mr Orphanus before, these are issues that will be a systematic matter since we started - and we have already begun to consider - the new legislative framework that we want for higher education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u128	Minister, thank you. Thank you very much for your reply. It is, however, questionable that only the University Departments put the sub-funding in the pretext. Why have only been targeted at these sections? As I mentioned earlier, the local society, the municipal authority, the local bodies, the educational spiritual community of the county, the institutions of the first and second degrees of self-government, the Church, the TE, clubs, chambers of the city invest in the presence of university departments in Agrinio. They've planned and proposed sustainable solutions for a long time. I cannot understand why nothing has been exploited so far by the University of Patras. Does the University of Patras have any better solutions? Is it ready and better spaces to house the departments? Does he have any better infrastructure? Is there eventually a plan for the upkeep of university departments from Agrinio to Patras? The question, Minister, is that the life of the local society, of the students, of the educational community, of an entire prefecture, which already has too many problems, is violently overturned to satisfy some of the syndicate interests. It is, however, sad in this game that students are being dragged and some are supposedly speaking in the name of their interest. That's the reality. However, you know, Minister, that the whole society and the citizens of Atolokarnania with determination and struggling will not allow the closure and transfer of the three university departments from Agrinio to Patras. We will not allow the fair demands of students and their families for better conditions of education to be used as a tool for the abolition of the university community in Agrini. We invite you to intervene, stand by us. You seem consistent with your election commitments. We must not and cannot implement this decision of the Senate. The Ministry's Strategic and Spatial Planning Committee for Higher Education does not accept the Senate's decision. Stand together in our effort to continue operating all three university departments in Agrinio. A solution, Minister, could be the establishment of the school, which would include the three sections based in Agrinio, with separate administration, quarry and budget headed for the needs of the departments. However, Minister, although this solution we propose does not look at it and does not accept it, the University of Patras and is unable to support, as he says, the economic and academic operation of the three university departments in Agrini, then we ask for the establishment of the University of Western Greece based in Agrini. There are solutions. But there is a need for them to be implemented. Minister, education is a social asset. It is the state's obligation to provide indiscriminately the right to universal and equal access to it. The state keeps going. The project "Athens". Specific decisions were taken to keep these sections in our place. This is not going to be circumvented today. The decentralized functioning of university institutions in our country has been an arsenal of producing excellent scientific potential. It has helped to upgrade the cultural level of the counties where the seats of university institutions are hosted. It has substantially reduced Greece of two speeds. So a decision of the Senate cannot change the direction of education and the development of an entire prefecture. Here and now, Mr Minister, we are waiting for your own intervention, your own decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u129	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u130	Thank you. We agree, of course, that the question of sub-funding the universities of the country is extremely serious. We agree that all five years of the memorandum have broken down, between the others, both at the level of staff and at the level of resources the whole of the map of higher education, and from there we are called on this basis to see what we can do. You know, of course, that universities are self-sufficient, but obviously the overall map of higher education in our country is not the responsibility of each university or institution and any self-interest it brings, on the basis of objective criteria. We want, as I said, to see the Charter as a whole, to take into account issues relating to scientific establishment and issues relating to the possibility of scientific development and the need for productive reconstruction in the country and, obviously, the local communities and the specificities of each of them, in a context of productive reconstruction in the country. In this context we also want to avoid tensions between local societies that each wants to defend its own place, rightly against another and not both parties in favour of the general good. With this last criterion, we want to see the whole map again. We will then ask both of you and the respective departments of Agrinio and the University of Patras and TEI that are related to these regions and to these objects, what they say about such reform on such overall criteria. And I am sure that we will find solutions either in the direction you say or in a similar direction, which will not oppress - if the word is allowed - the fair demands, the prospects for the development of an entire region. We know the sections of the Agrinio. They're good parts. As I said, we have been in contact with both teachers and students, in a very nice form of dialogue and understanding. And we slowly gather all the parameters and opinions so that, when we get to the bill, we have as much consent as possible, as much support as possible not of a local society against another or another body against another, but of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u131	The eleventh question will now be discussed under number 368/19-6-2015, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the European programme 'ERASMUS+'. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, because I am not a listener and because no one is just a listener in this Chamber, I would like to tell the Minister this: Minister, in the case of the University of Agrinio you will not find two cities fighting, and you will not find the city of Patras. To that end, I have tabled a relevant question with the arguments you have just heard about the maintenance and strengthening of the University of Agrinio. I welcome what we have heard - it is enough to implement - and I hope that this time foolishness will not be repaid or baptized by the name of the goddess of wisdom, Athena, because the previous project has been rejected 'in the matter', not by the academic community, but by everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u133	He'll be ringing the bell in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, because we are being watched, I would like to say that I have received messages about the previous timely question. I don't know what was recorded in the Minutes. I know what the television flashlight wrote. He wrote that while I asked the Minister to clarify something he said about an accidental wording - which I do not think was accidental, as the Minister did - he left the fuel smugglers to speculate, as the Prime Minister told the European Parliament yesterday, he did not clarify it. I would like to speed up, therefore, since I was not given the opportunity to speak, to ask a question about those who have already sent messages, because I did not react, to learn more from the Minister of Finance. Minister, you know what the topical question we have come here for today. The National Youth Foundation, as renamed - it does not matter - is what was very successful in the European Youth Programme in Greece. There's a involvement. You know her. I'd just like... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u135	Keep going. What can I do to you that we've been together for many years in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. The main problem surrounding the development of the implementation of the programme is the suspension of funding for the programme in the country, which - here is the strange thing - due to the failure to send the necessary documents from the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs to the European Commission. As you can see, I have a text that I read, which I will also present. It's not an arbitrary reason. With regard to the extremely serious consequences of the fact that the project unit is in suspension of funding, as well as the inability to sign contracts with the approved bodies, and the impossibility of paying advances to the programmes that have already begun implementation, you ask: Why, instead of resolving these exceptional issues, are causing new delays, are confusing with the transfer of the ERASMUS programme to the National Scholarship Foundation, IKY, when the only body that has the power to manage the programmes for the new generation based on n. 4115/2013, it's the institute. Also, Minister, please let us know - you did not find the time - if you are aware of the time to listen to what we have heard, namely the workers, who say that you may not have all the information, and that is why many written communications have been released.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u137	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u138	Look, this is a little different. The European programme ‘ERASMUS+’ started 1-1-2014. The Ministry of Education was then designated as a national authority as a national management unit. INEDIBIM (http: /www.inedivim.gr/index.php/ to-inedivim), the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation intervened and requested its own piece. On 21-2-2014 two national units were designated in relation to the two pieces of ‘ERASMUS+’: one for education and training, the other for youth. The European Commission in August 2014 informed the then Ministry of Education that it accepts the definition of this institution on terms, highlighting issues of the management of the programme. In April 2014, the European Commission suspended payments - long before we came - for two reasons: because as a national coordination unit over the last four years it has not submitted the relevant documents and, in particular, did not submit the annual declaration of assurance - that is to say guaranteeing good management - for 2013. On the contrary, all relevant documents and safeguards were made for the IKY, so the European Commission had no problem with the IKH. When we took over, we had this problem: the European Commission wanted to completely stop the INEDIDIM programme (http://www.inedivim.gr/index.php/to-inedivim), because it was not okay with its obligations. When the sworn accountants entered, they made some sixty remarks, some of which the European Commission considered crucial. So in order not to destroy the entire programme, with the brief actions of the Ministry of Education and the transition of the Secretary-General to Brussels, we have managed to convince the Commission to transfer the management of INEDIDIBIM (http: / /www.inedivim.gr/index.php/ to-inedivim) to the IKH and, furthermore, to ensure the continuation of funding with an exclusive management body of the IKH, which until then had appeared a perfect person in relation to Europe. That's where we are. We consider this to be a success rather than a reproach. And if you want, in relation to the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation, we're in control, and we find too many things. We do not make them public before we finalise these checks. But believe me, things are going much better. And as far as mismanagement is concerned, and previous problems have nothing to do with the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, first of all I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that there will be no problem in this programme, because that is now the big issue. Many years now, we have all heard, we have tasted through our children, through many young people in Greece, the sweet fruits of this program. That's the big one, and let anyone who wants to do it. I also wanted, Minister, to ask you to read what is being said or - the best - to have some time to listen to them too. They complain that the political leadership has not heard them. I think everyone has that right. But above all, I would like to ask you what you will find when the investigations are completed, not to cover them up. If I understood correctly, you told me "we find things and we don't...". I will take today's Minutes and annoy you - on the parliamentary path, I mean - because you are right. Strict controls should indeed be carried out. After I said this, I now think I am entitled to tell you what the workers said when they visited us. They said that the competent agencies know that the audit at the Institute did not even start from the Court of Auditors, because very simply the audit has already been completed on the basis of the Ministerial Decision under Protocol No 664/23-1-2015 by independent accountants and his results are already in his hands by Mr. Chasupis from 3-6-2015. They also say: "... note the malicious reference "to deal with the problems", which proves that the Ministry has not taken care to read the results of the audit carried out." Finally, they speak of the ministerial decision that has never been revoked. It says that while it goes in - and I say - 'it says' because I do not know, I do not adopt them, I ask them - a question of double financing, since the expenditure on the same subject will be paid twice by the Ministry's resources, which has been brought to the attention of the Court of Auditors. In conclusion, your answer and actions above all of the current government show that it is on the subject that it is aware of the problem. You have brought us an important news, that we are not in danger of losing this opportunity and these valuable resources. I would ask you, however, very much to consider the pleadings that have reached my hands. I shall, however, submit it for the Minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u141	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u142	I assure you we're on the problem. We are studying it systematically. What I said was that we were not making early conclusions for noise reasons. Your evidence will be valuable to us. The assurance that the programme is still in force. Nothing has been lost because of our speech. But you will give me a chance to say something more generally. In relation to our European programmes, we are now a permanent question: how can we close the programmes so that we can go to the new ones and close them without covering any of the irregularities of the past? Sometimes the European Commission understands this, because we are talking about it exhaustively - as has happened here - and we find a way out, but sometimes it simply considers that 'the state has a continuity, so you have to close the programs anyway, so we should go further'. That is something we cannot accept either morally or politically. However, in some of these issues, such as the INEDIABIM, we are in the process of persuading Europeans and of understanding what happened with previous administrations and how we can move towards a new form of relationship with Europe through programmes which does not create such problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the roll-call vote which had been adopted since 13.00, at noon, will be held at 13.45 p.m. so that the Secretaries of the parties' parliamentary groups can inform Members of the change of time as I have been informed by the President's Office. Parliament called for a short-day absence from abroad from 13 July to 16 July. The letter had been sent to the President. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u144	The House approved the requested permission. The ninth under number 366/18-6-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the functioning of the Coordinating Centre of the National Transplant Organisation (EOM), is deleted due to an impediment of the Minister. Also, the twelfth under number 328/9-6-2015 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Finance regarding the delay in the regulation on red loans to the former Agricultural Bank is deleted due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifth, under number 367/19-6-2015, topical question by MP 2, Potamios Theocharis Theocharis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the Government's position regarding the findings of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Finally, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos's current question regarding Mrs Helena Panaritis' cooperation post with a well-known multinational company, while at the same time participating in our country's negotiating team, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister. We are now entering the circle of four topical questions to the Minister of the Army. We begin with the fourth question under number 378/23-6-2015 of the Second Cyclades MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of compulsory admission to the OGF of free professionals. Mr. Symphony, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we all know that these days we are at the peak of a very tough negotiation of the Greek Government with the partners in the European Union. Nevertheless, the problems that the memorandum policies have left us in recent years are very serious, one of which concerns thousands of professionals who are now subject to the Ombudsman Insurance Organisation (OEL) and previously were subject to other funds, such as OGAs, etc. In particular, many professionals based in areas such as the Cyclades and other island regions - I imagine other areas outside the islands - were automatically subject to the OSCE by Law 3846. And not only this, but with the circular of 80 2010 issued by the OSCE, professionals who were involved in exceptions should be judged by the provisions of the D. 3050/2002, by presenting the clearing houses of the years laid down by that law and, accordingly, would be subject to or would have been exempted from insurance since those provisions were laid down. Many professionals, however, ignored their unilateral and self-determination to the OAU and normally fulfilled their insurance obligations towards the OGA. Thus, they were found with financial outstandings of thousands of euros to the OAU and while they had fulfilled their obligations towards the OGA. In fact, thousands of euros were imposed on the OAU, while they had already paid part of these contributions to the OGA. Is the Minister responsible therefore asking: What action does it intend to take to solve this injustice directly against thousands of free professionals in the areas I mentioned earlier, who have been in debts of thousands of euros to the OAU while fulfilling the obligations to the OGA? And, secondly, do you intend to delete the total sentences and surcharges imposed by the OHIM on retrospectively and unilaterally? I would also like to fill in the question because, once the law on the subject of citizens and businesses has been in the law on a hundred instalments -'supportive regulation of the hundred instalments' - many of them have included the total amount that had been charged to them in the hundred instalments, taking into account both incremental and fines, while those fines could - if the state wants to - be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u147	Yes, it is a real problem for professionals, who are mostly in towns under two thousand inhabitants or in towns or villages under a thousand inhabitants as regards the six counties of Attica, Boeotia, Evia, Thessaloniki, Achaia and Corinthia or islands - and you know it very well - under three thousand inhabitants. It has a historical history, and I want to see what the problem is and how we can give some solutions. First of all, you know that in 1965, as far as the TEBE was concerned - there was no OSCE at that time - the population had been placed as a criterion, so that those who practiced professional activity in cities, towns or islands with inhabitants under that number were subject to the OGA. A law came in 2002, to which you refer, Mr.3050/2002, and in addition to the population criterion, he also had the income tax, to have an income of up to a certain amount. They were then summoned, on the basis of a circular of application of the law that had come out, to come and declare the income. And there came L.3846/2010, who also set a third criterion, that you may have been based as a business in places, villages, cities or islands with inhabitants below the number described in the old law of 1965. But this law, Law No.3846, said you should not engage in super-local activity, i.e. not being a supermarket chain, but only a business in the region. So this third criterion came in too. And going, Mr President, to apply the law to the three criteria, they found that under the previous law, 2002, not all professionals had come to carry the documents and get the exculpatory from TEBE - in 2002 - so that they would take the exculpatory away from there to pay the OGA, so that they could ask them retroactively. Retrospectives have, of course, been asking for five years. They didn't ask for everything. Interest and surcharges went in. With the regulation that has been introduced, whoever pays a one-off, all interest and surcharges leave. We also put in a protection zone, which we completed the day before yesterday. We completed the decriminalisation, because some who didn't go to give it, had adventures. They had fines or penalties. We got them back so they don't have that trouble. And we're also looking for some solutions, which I'm going to report to you in my denology. It is indeed a real problem. It has this historical dimension. We've got to get a solution. I'll tell you in my denture some thoughts we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u148	Mr Nikolaos Symblene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u149	I am pleased that there is some provision, at least in relation to fines, etc., that these penalties are deleted. And I am glad that there is also in the minds of the Ministry's leadership to see it positively. However, since this issue has been dragged away for several years and it really is unfair for these thousands of free microprofessionals, a definitive solution must be found. I would like to add here that on many islands, as you said, under the two thousand inhabitants, the tourist season is a short period - it is a two and a half months, two and a half months - and as a result these people pay a one-year contribution, in fact they only work for two months. In fact, they pay large contributions because they fall under the high class. And that is an issue, which you need to see on the occasion of normalisation, since there is political will on the previous issue too. I would also say that you should also see the question of these people's services at their homes, so that they do not move and can electronically, if possible, or with a correspondent in some services - possibly in the JEPs, etc. - to be served. At the moment - at least in Cyclades - there are islands such as Paros and Santorini - Santorini with six thousand businesses, Paros with thousands of small businesses - where people cannot serve in Naxos, because there are one or two employees in Naxos and it is not possible to meet all these needs. Therefore, this issue is also involved in previous issues, so that insurance can also be settled, but that there are no escapes to the insurance system, which is a very big wound and bomb on the ground itself of the country's insurance system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u150	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. In doing an investigation, Mr. Syrmalene, to see where these debts came from to the OAU, beyond the history of the matter, there is the substance, if they did so voluntarily, if they did not do so voluntarily, etc. As I have seen, four categories have been codified by those who have been found to be inconsistent, so that they have these additional charges, even if these years have, as you say, paid to the OGA and are now being asked to pay a second contribution. In my opinion, therefore, I have spoken today on the occasion of the question with the Commander of the OAU, Mr Petropoulos, on the one hand, and, on the other, we have to give a definitive solution to the problem as soon as possible. That is, whether they are going to the OAU and all to these islands, but with the insurance class that they paid to the OGA, since these population criteria are applicable - that is to say they are in a fund and are served without being financially burdened, to be in a special insurance class that is the same order that they paid to the OGA, those who went to the OGA, or stay in the OGA, but under certain conditions, not to engage with the OAU and not to have these adventures. I believe that the next few weeks will address this issue. At least these commitments were made today by the OAU Commander, who told me that there have indeed been injustices in this regard and must be lifted. As far as staff are concerned, this is the situation, as you have said. There's gonna be a competition now. It's in the final phase of evolution. I will then answer exactly where he is, because Mr Katsotis also asks me to the next time-consuming question. I believe, from this competition and the recruitment that will take place in the insurance funds this year, that we can also fill gaps in the Cyclades Prefecture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u152	Me too, Minister. We are now entering the 15th, with number 343/12-6-2015, a topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay in the extradition of disability pensions. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following a recent complaint by a patient who followed the correct procedure for applying for and checking by the competent disability certification centre for the issuing of a disability pension, there is an inaccurate delay in the issue of these pensions. In particular, for an integrated application submitted and registered on 4 April 2012 in IKA, the patient was notified to be examined by the competent disability certification centre on 18 May 2015. Thirty-seven months thereafter, during which the patient has been interrupted to benefit from his or her already acquired benefits and insurance cover. The end of the procedure is to complete and the one-month period for starting the monthly pension after the date of the pension decision, within which the insurer has the margin to raise objections to the decision he has taken. Ask yourself: Do you know the waiting times involved in disability pension procedures and that during these periods applicants are out of insurance cover? Secondly, what measures will you take to speed up the procedures for issuing disability pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u154	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yes, Mr. Micho, this case has come to me from Members of your party four days ago. I've ordered an investigation. It is really an extreme anti-social case, pending such an application so long. You will be informed by the director of my office at the Ministry about what happened, what responsibilities are there and will be sought. I'm saying for the second time it's an extreme case. On the occasion of your timely question, I asked you for information - I have an image, but I asked for more information - about the CSRs. Indeed, between 2012 and the summer of 2014 there were very large loose ends. Sixty-eight thousand applications of LEAD were pending to determine their disability from the CEDEFOP. They were practically trapped, sixty - eight thousand people imprisoned. Because it is not just late for them to pass, but you know that this time they did not get their pensions, their prostitution and their health care, which, especially those people with disabilities, are more in need than everyone else. From the first measures I tried to take to the Ministry, when I took this responsibility, it was to simplify as much as possible the procedures, to set up as many committees as possible and to shorten the time. At the moment, my picture is that the remaining applications from sixty-eight thousand are only five and a half thousand and that the waiting time has been limited for the Attica from twenty days to two months. I am telling you the evidence from 18 June, that is 15 days ago, when I asked for it. And with regard to the objection - because when they think they are wrong, they object - there is a longer delay, up to four months. It's pretty low from before. And with regard to remote areas, islands or cases where they have to go home to examine them, it has also fallen there from one to three months. So it's a good course of reduction. As Minister, I will be pleased when the decisions come out no later than twenty days or a month. We have taken a second measure on your second question. It was passed in the bill last Tuesday on the 30th of the month and took FEK on the 2nd of the month and we solved the very big problem you're saying with your second question. In other words, for the period when the disabled person is not due to be delayed by the CEPD, the disability certification centre, to make the decision, to normally take his pension, to normally take the benefits and take his health care as well. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Michos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. Because I was involved, when I was first a Member of Parliament, in this particular matter with some others who had the same problem in IKA Chalkida, in that particular time you mentioned, and before you were some people who were receiving pensions, who did not need to receive pensions, unfortunately - I do not want to mention names, I have a list of names, about twenty-six names - because they were MPs from behind and "press" from behind, and for some people we had to help them in the tail to get the pensions and others to pass committees, which were disabled by 80% and did not give them pensions. I think you should look at that, because it's a sin for some to take pensions without needing them, and people who don't have them or eat. You know very well that all the time certain people are waiting to get this pension they need money to pay a rent - you know what the world is like today -, diet need, some people stopped going to school because they didn't have any money, some others who were a little more comfortable because the family was probably working for the husband, they stopped taking their children to TEI or university. Do what you can to help these people, because - as you said before - they are the first to need help and then everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u158	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u159	If there are such complaints, I have told your parliamentarians that at any time and at any time to inform my office and to conduct an investigation to see exactly what is happening. Because if there are specific circuits and customer relations even today - in the past, it is certain that these things have been and have been reported - that we deal with each particular case from its root and cut it off. In addition to what you mentioned, I would like to inform you that in the law that has been passed recently, we have tried to resolve this problem in other ways. In other words, as far as the benefit is concerned, we say that three months before the end of the year the services should accept the new application for an extension so that there is no delay. Secondly, it is the measure that I mentioned to you, that is to say, that this time they will continue to take pensions, benefits and health care. We have also introduced by this law a week ago that the decision of the CESDP will come out for one single use and will not have to go through again and go through again for its tax declaration, for the child to give full-fledged, etc. Once judged, this paper will go and will apply to all public services. Finally, a problem that was very big and I had questions from Members of all the parties and concerned the paradox of 46.10 euros, which they had to give to pass through, with this law a week ago was abolished. We are therefore trying to deal with this problem as sensitive as possible and we will move in this direction, that is to say, to shorten the time and the benefits of all being entitled to them and to simplify the situation as much as possible, so that our fellow citizens, who are a large part of the population, are 10% of what is estimated. For them, some problems, which are just about us, are a thousand times more difficult. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u160	We go to the fifteenth, with number 362/16-6-2015, a topical question for a second question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reintegration of OAU contractors. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is the timely question you have said before. For decades, Minister, you have known very well that in OAU funds, TEBE, many employees were hired under fixed-term contracts. So in the OSCE in recent years these conventions have been available. They ended and there were two hundred fifty workers with court decisions. These two hundred and fifty contractors of the agency were fired by the previous government about a year ago. Some of them have appealed to the courts and have obtained a provisionally enforceable positive decision. By inadmissible decision, the OSCE administration appealed and annulled this provisionally enforceable positive decision of the court. These workers, who are being asked the timely question, have worked in the organization for several years, have learned the subject, covered and covered a large part of the huge gaps in staff and are necessary. We ask what is going to happen so that these workers can be re-entered without conditions and conditions, which usually enter, with a permanent, stable employment relationship, with full employment and insurance rights. It's a familiar matter to you. They've been in your office too, camped outside. I know that you have discussed with them, but today we are asking you here and within the framework of parliamentary control to say what the government's position is in relation to these two hundred fifty OSH workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Army, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u163	Yeah, about two hundred and fifty are. There were two hundred and fifty, two rows left. They were project contracts that had lasted two years. They were hired to complete the integration of the insurance funds hanged under the OSCE. They had won judicial primal judgments and remained in their work. Prior management with the leadership mandate at the time of the Ministry of Labour had indeed applied for the withdrawal of these primary interim executing decisions, had won them and on this basis had not kept them at work, stopped their employment. We talked with them, had their movement forms, their mobilizations. It makes sense, when one claims his job, his job, to be mobilized. We met with the club three times, we told them the problem that exists, namely that the laws that have been passed in the House - on the initiative of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, to give a definitive solution to this issue - force the administrations of the insurance funds to appeal. He obliges them, otherwise they even have penalties for the felony of infidelity. Nevertheless, we said we could move and move in two directions. They have already appealed to the courts to suspend the withdrawal of the decisions they had won. If these decisions are won, we will respect them. A decision has already been made for four workers. The execution of the decision that was reintroducing it has been suspended has been returned to work. He's coming out for the rest of us. Once they are tried and the court suspends the revocation of the primary judgments, which were provisionally enforceable, we will respect and respect judgments. As far as I know, this is unsolved. The second direction is that an AACC competition is opened for four hundred permanent posts in the insurance funds. Because it was about to answer your timely question, I called ten minutes before I came here to Mr. Katrugalos, because it was my request and Mr. Skourletis, the Minister of Labour, to Mr. Katrugalos to go as quickly as possible, to precede and be the first contest, so that these workers can, by reason of their pre-service, have a prospect of being recruited to the OAU. The briefing I had is that it's going very fast, that the competition has already been prepared, and at the moment it's in the State General Accounting Office to give the final OK and to open the ASA competition. As I have informed them, they will be mobilised to enable the years they have worked, either by the two-year contract or by the rest of course by judicial decision, to use it and to be able to return to work. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u164	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that any moleculosis does not ensure that the same workers can be recruited, and that is what you ought to say to the workers themselves, so that they do not have any illusions that this is the way to deal with the issue. You know very well that you, too, have asked about them, when you were in opposition, you asked for the re-entry, and in any case today you say that the framework is such that it does not allow us to move on with the recruitment of these workers. I don't know who's imposing the appeal on the next court, appealing, etc. All this, the laws, how it is done through here, through this House, and it can actually be decided whether the OSCE should work with workers so that it quickly makes retirement decisions, or whether it should be that function with all these aspects it has, which make it difficult to adopt pension decisions or to provide other services to the pensioners of the OSCE. Staff recruitment is an issue that needs to be addressed. It is known that there is a great shortage. Of course, there was a logic before, which said that it was not a matter of recruiting staff, but of doing the computerization. Again, the computerization of who will do it, workers won't do it? Who's gonna do it? And, in any case, computerization can deal with all OSCE issues? It is well known that we are on a course of unification. In addition, this is the direction, the integration of the funds and the abolition, if you like, of rights which some people have in other funds. The direction is to free employers and transfer to workers in insurance costs, and it is the direction currently being discussed and with the troika, to reopen pensions - perhaps soon, on the basis of the proposal made by the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos - and the tax, which will overturn insurance rights. So the delay in resolving this issue of the two hundred and fifty, but also others, in the insurance funds, has to do with the thoughts that you have on the major overturns that will take place in the next few years in the pensions issue itself, in the insurance of workers in general. As far as we are concerned, we say that it is unfair for these two hundred fifty workers to work for several years, be on the outside and keep calling on them to deal with the issue, which is costly for them, time-consuming and for workers to remain in search of work or in their fairness through such cost-effective and time-consuming procedures. We therefore ask you to take all the necessary steps to deal with the issue of workers in the EUPM.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u166	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I, as Minister for Social Security, have no intention of overturning anything for the benefit of employers. The intention is to restore the public social security character which over the years has been overturned by violent memorial policies. Secondly, as far as OSCE is concerned, it is not my view that the problems of OSCE and its insured persons - because, as you have said, the issue first and foremost must be served, which pay the contributions, which are insured and must be served and not troubled - are solved only by computerisation. Computerization is very good, but if there is no human factor, if there are no employees, workers, especially branches, or where there is a trade with the insured, problems are not dealt with and they are not solved. Therefore, the Ministry's position is that it needs support for staff in all the insurance funds. In fact, Mr Katsotis, I would like to tell you that the proposal I made to the Government for recruitment of staff to the insurance funds for this year was for a thousand eight hundred and seventy-two recruitments. As far as you know, four hundred were finally approved. It is the competition I mentioned before, which is now under way and will come out in the air, because the government has given priority to education and health, which has announced that there will be four and a half thousand permanent recruitments in health and that there will be three and a half thousand permanent recruitments in education. It is therefore the intention of the Ministry and the Government to strengthen the insurance funds with staff. We have the four hundred permanent competition that will take place and go back around the three hundred ninety available, were fired and I assure you that they are returning to the insurance funds within the week. We have signed a number of accreditation acts and I and Mr Skourletis are back to work. They are already coming back, and I think that by next Friday they will have returned too. It's a first breath the ones who were fired and the competition is back. With regard to this issue, we are trying to find a solution to the direction you say, their employment. It is not just constitutional problems, it is also a position of principle that the government has said to the same and pre-electionally, both to the same and to the entire Greek people, that in the insurance funds and the public, no one will enter without the PSA, to be justice for all the children of the Greek people who are looking for work. In this position of principle we have, that no one will be hired without an APA, we are trying to find a solution to a real problem and openness, because we are talking about human souls. Two hundred fifty aren't a number, they're people who had a job. So within these limitations, and in the position of government, we sought the two ways. The first is the one I had also expressed in my question that, since we have even first-class decisions, but are temporarily enforceable, we apply them directly. Already, the first time he got out, we applied it and the commander of the OAU, Tasos Petropoulos, immediately reinstated the four who were vindicated in court. That is the only way that, unfortunately, was not respected before, and that is why I had tabled the question. And the second way is through the competition to give this possibility. You are right, because we must always tell the interested parties the truth will not come to the first competition in order for everyone to get settled. And that is why there is an express commitment to their association - I say it in the House to be written in the Minutes and you in reply - that if there are any loose ends in the 2016 competition, the same moleculosis will be observed. And I am well aware that their association is in contact with the Services of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, so that this commitment can be implemented with this competition. We are therefore moving in this direction to solve the problem, but to resolve it through these two ways. In fact, because you have asked me to take every opportunity, I assure you, Mr Kathotis, that every margin and every opportunity I have as Deputy Minister for Social Security on this matter will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u168	Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u170	I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the procurement of Defence Materials". We are now moving on to the sixteenth yearly question under number 360/16-6-2015, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning measures to resolve the problems of workers in the Medals of Kassandra. The Minister will answer Mr. Army. Mr Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known to all of us that the attack on insurance and, more generally, labour rights has been evolving for over twenty-five years. It is therefore not only a question of memoranda policies which must be 'different' to introductory or non-important. Of course, in the last period, with all these implementing laws of the two memorandums, this process has been accelerated by taking more reinsurance laws. However, this situation does not only concern our country, it also concerns the whole of the European Union. By collective decisions across the European Union, the pension threshold is increased, for example. They are reduced in all countries - elsewhere less - pensions. That's the situation. For the timely question we are discussing today, the effects of reinsurance policy in our country with all the laws that have passed - I remind you of the Sifa law from '92, until the last law, Petrolia, Reppa, the effort of Janitsi, Brutsi, etc. - workers at the Kassandra Medals were: while in 1992 his retirement threshold was fifty years, the Sifa Act became fifty-five and the last seven. Of course, it can be said that the early retirements that need to be abolished and that the limit is even higher. However, we should be aware that the average life expectancy of these workers within the tunnels is about sixty-three years. The second issue I would like to raise with regard to the topical question is this: for health issues, particularly pulmonary issues, which these workers face within an eighty-kilometre radius of mines, there is no CT scanner to make X-rays. They travel eighty kilometers away, in Moudania or Polygirl. That's what this is about. The third question I would like to raise is that the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work they receive is considered as income and is taxed. In other words, an allowance to be able to have health - that's why they get it - we tax it on top of it. So we are specifically asking, and because you always accuse us that we are interested in and refer everything to socialism today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u172	Not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u173	Not you, general government. I'd say, too, but, anyway. I would like to say this: Today will the retirement limit of these workers be reduced? Will the government take concrete measures to manipulate the health centres in this region? Will measures be taken to strengthen control mechanisms and ensure the safety of mining workers? Finally, will the allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work cease to be taxed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u174	Minister, you have the floor. You will have to answer for three ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u175	That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. I'm for four ministers, because four of them have sent me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u176	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u177	The workers are one, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u178	Yeah, I agree, so I'll try to answer for everyone. Indeed, they are workers who are at the hardest work, within mines and undergrounds, with very unhealthy and dangerous - I would say, as you say in your timely question - conditions. Now on the issue of their health, I have been given by the Ministry of Health a state of health infrastructure in the county (General Hospital in Polygyros, five health centres, regional, multi-powered, special centres that exist, especially in the areas where the four mines are for the protection of the health of workers), but they are not enough. I agree with you, they don't get there. There are two kinds of problems. First of all, he's lacking personal. With continued retirement and without public health recruitment, there is indeed a subordinate of these health structures. This is an issue that needs to be addressed, especially in the summer. I have been assured by the Ministry of Health that they will now take steps in the summer to assist, because as you know in this area, Halkidiki, these health structures are not just for miners. The summer is also a spectacular world, so that these structures cannot be met. I have therefore been assured that during the summer season these structures will be strengthened. Secondly, there is the problem with CT scanners and X-ray scanners. They'll see how they deal with it. There is the problem and looking for solutions not to make this route of forty-six and forty-six kilometres, that is, ninety-two kilometres - you say eighty, but from what I have is above, it is forty-six and sixty-six, ninety-two kilometres - when they are found in this need. Thirdly, with regard to increasing the age limits, I, because I always want to speak the language of the truth, say that at the moment both the Ministry and the government at the battle that they give, are to defend the existing retirement age limits, particularly in the heavy and unhealthy professions, which we have put very decisively, that they should be exempted from anything that is in everyone's mind. That's the battle. The other issues with laws that have abolished rights have tightened the conditions for retirement, particularly in such categories of workers in such circumstances, are issues that we will see later. I'm not telling you we'll see now. I'll see you later. At the moment we have a priority to defend the age limits that exist to keep them from getting worse. That is what we are trying to do and will do, I assure you, as a government and in the negotiations that are taking place so that the country can have an agreement which will benefit both our country and our people. Now on the issue of taxation, I did an investigation. I have seen that such benefits for dangerous and unhealthy work in other categories of workers are indeed excluded from taxation. I appreciate that, because I am not a minister, it is good that, because you know of the problems of workers there, you should come back with a timely question to the relevant Minister, Mrs Valvaani, to study it in particular and to have a clearer answer to this particular category of workers. The request, which you are making, is not absurd because I told you that I found about eight categories of workers, which you are asking for is valid. Finally, for health and safety conditions, you know that neither the Ministry of Labour nor the Social Security are responsible. There is the regulation - where it applies to mining - and it is strange that the Labour Inspectors' Chamber is not from earlier legislation, but it is the Environment Inspectorate which has competence. This is a matter for which the federation of my employees has asked me for an appointment and I have closed a meeting on Friday. We'll talk about this. There are structures - I have been mentioned - in the four mines operating for seven days and 24 hours. However, because this is the particular category of workers and those of the surface, but above all those who are in the underground, I think that, in cooperation with their trade unions, with their federation, the best we can do will do so and we will continue this debate so that we can take more concrete measures. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u179	Because of the importance of this matter for both colleagues I left the time. You have your dentistry, Mr. Vardalis. However, Minister, we are halfway through the summer. I'm telling you about the Department of Health because you said so. We're in July.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u180	I agree with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u181	Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u182	In half of the summer, Mr President, we have 'will'. You understand when it's going to be dealt with. However, our opinion is this: Mr Minister, whether there is agreement or not, marble on all these issues and social security and health and welfare will be paid again by the workers and the people. This is the only sure thing for the following reason: everything shows that we are on the way to further reinstated interventions. What does it mean, for example, when members of the government state that insurance is not sustainable and that proportionate studies must be carried out? When Mr Skourletis says that since September there will be a wide-ranging national dialogue with all stakeholders, what do you say? Will this dialogue take place to increase pensions or to reduce pension thresholds? Apparently to get worse. After all, these are the decisions and regulations of the European Union, which you say every day that you will respect. The second thing I want to say is that on this issue, you have said this today, your attempt is to save what is in place - the red lines. Yeah, but these red lines too become pink. We'll see about the deal. I am not saying this, but on the basis of your own proposals, it is certain that pensions, whether the main or the subsidiary, are being reduced and you are putting a number of increases in health contributions, such as in the subsidiary 5% that was not at all, in the main pensions increase from 4% to 5%, as well as in the increase in contributions to employed persons 1% - what had been abolished. In particular, what concerns the topical question as well, is the partial abolition of early retirement. And we ask again: in the early days that will be abolished, will they be too? Because it's important. Finally, in the time left, I will say first of all that this reinsurance attack, in our view, will not be complete. It will continue, because these are decisions by the imperialist institutions, such as the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, which have specific objectives - which is why they are taking such measures - that is, the reduction of non-productive costs, the objective you agree with, the strengthening of competitiveness, which you agree with. In order to increase competitiveness, therefore, in order to reduce non-wage costs, this must be paid by the workers. That is why social security is also being privatised. We have the professional funds, and of course the State grants to the insurance funds are reduced. In our opinion, workers should be clear that the real way out is on the road to organised struggle, the rebuilding of the labour movement, the strengthening of the popular alliance, which will directly demand relief measures. We cannot compromise by not losing what we have. In 2015, with the development of technology, productivity, we can live better. That's what we have to claim. These employees must be linked to a perspective: take the keys to the economy from the hands of the major business groups and design the economy to its advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you have been reinstated, in fact, in the past twenty-five years. We must not forget, however, that in the five years of the memoranda the reinsurance and non-sociality of these changes have been a slower one, in the sense that in five years, rights acquired over the past decades have been reduced in the sense that we have had 35% to 50% reductions in supplementary pensions and have been reduced to hundreds of thousands or millions of pensioners. So not to ignore it and say - whoever we say, I did not say that you said it - that what has happened over the last five years was the same as what happened in twenty-five years. It was an incisive, antisocial, and reinstatemental, what happened within five years. Secondly, as a government equipped with the proud and dignified and democratic 'no' right now we are fighting a great, hard and unequal battle. A government left-wing and anti-moneyist government of a small country, a small corner on the planet, is facing the economic and political situation - and the European and the domestic one - and gives a great battle for an agreement which has no means of austerity, i.e. wage reductions and pensions, means of financing a development project with large investment mainly from the public and social sectors, and also has a fall in the country's public debt. That's where we fight. We believe that a developed people's movement and the mobilisation of the people help us. We also consider it positive that those who worked by the people's movement to have this strong and overwhelming majority 'no' in the policies of austerity and total destruction of the country continue the mobilisations and tomorrow, from what we have seen and been informed. That's very positive. And we believe that the government in this difficult battle it gives, an important factor that helps it, is the development of the people's struggles and the folk movement, which erects a 'no' to anti-social, anti-development policies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In six months' time, we did not reduce, as far as you know, any major pensions or supplementary pensions are concerned. In fact, we did not hesitate, even when the so-called institutions told us that they were unilateral actions, that we should bring state law, and that there should be a very successful payment of debts to the insurance funds, which was a relief measure for both self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as a relief and income measure for the insurance funds. You know well that last week we took no steps to overthrow the insurance policy, but measures to support pensioners and insurance, because we restored the pensions of the elderly, the relatives and the Greeks. You know very well that we have taken measures to simplify and facilitate the functioning of the CSRs and to grant pensions for disabled people for the time they wait in the CSRs. You know that we have taken action against tax evasion and a number of measures to tackle extreme reinsurance offences that had taken place in the past five years. These have become laws of the state, whether by the law on the humanitarian crisis or by the law adopted the day before yesterday on the issues of CEPR, tax evasion and insurance. Therefore, the act has shown that we have a first criterion, not the interests of our country's lenders, but the interests of our people, workers and pensioners. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u185	The seventeenth under number 318/8-6-2015 topical question by Evia MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance on the remuneration and commitment of the liquidator from the Bank of Greece for the “Cooperative Evian Bank” is not discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister. Finally, the first question will be discussed under number 3001/27-5-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the integration of citizens into the programmes to address the humanitarian crisis based on the incomes of 2014 and 2015. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Last question in the series of debates, but I think it is very important, because it is true that the people who pay for the most and at a higher cost the effects of the crisis and, above all, the latest events are the people who belong to the range of extreme poverty. As a parliament of the Greeks, we voted for the programme proposed by the Ministry, the Minister, which relates essentially to three benefits which - to remind you - are the reconnection of electricity, the rental subsidy and the feeding. There was really a point of convergence, despite the individual disagreements of most of Parliament's wings. I believe that the programme does not meet the needs, not only in terms of the number, but also in terms of the specifications and criteria that have been set down below by the Ministerial Decisions, which is why I am asking the question. In particular, those who met the criteria were approved for the electricity programme and that is a good thing. Forty thousand applications were made, eighty - nine thousand met the criteria, all approved. For the rental program ninety thousand applications were made, sixty - six thousand families obviously not individuals - and only thirty thousand of them are part of the program. For the feeding program two hundred and ninety - three thousand applications were made, they meet the criteria of two hundred and thirty - three thousand, corresponding to a much larger number of people, and only a hundred forty - five thousand were approved. The only thing to do with the number of applications is not that it is not very important. So there are hundreds of thousands of families living out of the feeding program that meet the criteria, from the 30 - thousand rental grant program that meets the criteria. A total of about three hundred forty thousand people. And I propose this through the question: First of all to come a suggestion from the Ministry and see how these people will join the program as well. They meet the criteria, that is, unfortunately, in the range of extreme poverty, on the basis of the very low income limits we have set. The second is that, unfortunately, the ministerial decision provides for a comparison of incomes with 2013. What does that mean? All the people who in 2014 have, unfortunately, fallen into the range of extreme poverty or even in 2015, are not beneficiaries of this support. That's a huge problem! We are therefore asking for two amendments. One is budget and budgetary, and the other is the possibility for those who now submit the tax declaration for 2014, at least for 2014, to be able to join. I would remind you that something similar had been done with social dividends and ultimately social dividends took it and those who did last year, in 2014, their tax declaration and so we were closer to reality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u187	Minister Theanos Fotio has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, you're making a small mistake about how many people got the rent and how many didn't get the feeding allowance. It is as follows: The rental allowance, unfortunately, was at the outset known to satisfy only thirty thousand families. That's what we satisfied. And we gave thirty - five thousand families, that is, we expanded the number not only to families with children, but also to couples. The second element is that those who were left without a feeding card, while meeting the criteria, are indeed eighty-five thousand, so that we do not leave the feeling in the world that they are 100 thousand. You know, I don't want to defend those fifteen thousand who were wrong. I mean what I always said, that this is a small step. You especially know that it is followed by the 135 million ETA, which we have announced at the moment, we are running it in all regions and all the counties of Greece, with fifty-seven social partnerships and we have made the competition for the first time all the supplies so quickly, where we expect suppliers to give their offers on July 22nd to 29th. Very quickly, that is to say, the first products, which for the first time include fresh products, namely meat - which has not existed until now - fruits and vegetables. So for those who stayed outside anyway, we're taking care that they'll get the TEDA. I would like to say from the outset that I hope, Minister, that with the new agreement, with the dreadful humanitarian aid packages that the partners would give us if we were to come out of the Eurozone and be destroyed - I hope they will give us today, because we are damaged - we will, therefore, expand the 200 million money anyway, and the people who will take other cards. That's the first thing. The second is that as you know very well, the law was passed by the Greek Parliament on 20 March. The platform for the applications of the beneficiaries opened on 20 April, i.e. one month after the CYPD issued in twenty days. So from April 20th to June 1st, the potential beneficiaries applied. What does that mean? That we could unfortunately not go with the financial year 2015, because then the beneficiaries would get any benefits in September, while now they are all ready, the story is over. So we were, unfortunately, obliged to go with the financial year 2014. But now the TEVA will go with the financial year 2015 anyway, because the TEVA platform will open on June 26 for the beneficiaries of the TEVA from July 20th to August 5th. So for the TEVA stakeholders, because they will have been able to make tax statements by then, we will be doing so. For the previous ones, so that people can get some money and not wait in September, we went differently. We know injustices and we are very sensitive to these issues to correct them as we can every day. Don't tell me again about the infamous programme of minimum guaranteed income, because very quickly the International Bank's estimates, which say, Mr President, that the way the minimum guaranteed income was set up, was wrong and that one of the main reasons for the error is the continued awareness of where the potential benefit lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u189	I'll take your time off your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u190	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u192	Following the ban on the left minister not to refer to specific issues, I am in agreement. However, I would like to point out that those who want to make this programme wrong are those who want to stir it up with the ESS. It has nothing to do with the CSCE. We have made a programme that has nothing to do with CSCE and disability benefits. You'll fall into the loop, and then you'll come to my words. Do not fall into the lumbar of those who want to abolish the ESS because it has nothing to do with the social group addressed by the ESS with the social group to which the minimum guaranteed income is directed. He has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u193	It's sixteen thousand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u194	You will answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u195	I comply with the ban, and I do not extend it. Be careful, however,: I am referring to the programme that the House has voted on - and we said that the House was also reluctant to support - from national resources to n. 4320. I didn't refer to the TEVA. In this programme, then, we have a hundred thousand people - from both categories, because some - who are left out - and I insist on the number - who involve about twenty-five thousand people, that is, total rent and subsistence. We should see this here and now and it has nothing to do with TEVA. So to the poor, extreme poverty, to the man who has no life will you give him the electronic platform you said? We have to come to an understanding. Let me tell you this: The one who in 2014 either because he was fired, but is not entitled to unemployment benefits, or for whatever reason he closed his shop, does not have the means to live, will we say to him 'we are not getting you the electronic platform of HICP'? Is that an answer? That's not an answer, my Minister. We should agree that for the 100 000 people left out while meeting the criteria, we should find resources to integrate them. Bring in a suggestion, bring an amendment here, make a commitment to all of us to vote for it, give it away! I told you last time that they would be covered by a sum of about 100 million. Maybe it's less. Bring them in, though! The second is exactly what I told you from one year to another. Is it possible now to have a problem and say 'but should you have 2013 a problem, not now'? It's two issues. One is the increase in the budget and the other is the change in the criteria, so that we can see the people who now have a problem. If you have the will, do not give me an answer, supporting what you have done, which you have done well. We want an answer to whether we can cover other people. The TEVA is not a complement to the n. 4320. It's an autonomous program, with incomplete criteria, and it won't cover the rest. Again, they may be the same ones who are entitled to be in the TEDA, that is to say, the same people remain outside. It's not a supplement. The operational programme has specific specifications, a specific way and you know very well that it is about food supply in kind. We're talking about the feeding card here. Don't mess with the two programmes, because at some point we'll also have problems implementing the TEVA. I would therefore like to tell you our good intention, Mr Army, to support any suggestion you bring here, such as the increase in the budget to cover those who are rejected with the revenues of 2013, but also those who will be deemed beneficiaries with the revenues of 2014. That is what I want to say and I think we can reach agreement on that. It's not a question of confrontation. It's a matter of understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u196	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u197	I think there is no further discussion. The answer is clear, the reason why it took place under the terms of 2013. I think I've answered enough. Otherwise, people would never take food, they would take it in November, and we were urgent. As far as those who did not cover this programme are concerned, I said before, that with your relations and with the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, you, too, should tell Mr Yunker to give the 2.5 billion promised for the humanitarian crisis, and that we are still waiting or not for those who from the Socialists to threaten that we will be given canned and gala out of the sky, if it happens in the Eurozone. I hope that in the great effort we've been making these days, we're all united. I accept your proposals very seriously and we will really take you immediately - and I will invite you to cooperate - the first immediate measures once we have this money to cover and cure any injustices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on topical and urgent questions has been completed. [[To register page 193 a]] I would like to thank all of you for attending the Chamber, very consistently, knowing from yesterday that the roll-call vote was going to take place today at 13 a.m. But for the past two hours, the House has been informed that it will start at 13.45 p.m. Then we interrupt until 13.45 ́.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Before entering the legislative work, I would like to make the following communication to this House: The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and the Standing Committee on Production and Trade deposit their report to the draft law: ‘Repeal the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation within the Multinational Coordinating Centre for Marine Transport of Athens (POSETHAM - AMSCC) and the Technical Arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on cooperation within the Multinational Coordinating Centre for Strategic Maritime Transport of Athens (POSTHM - AMSCC)’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution on the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Amendment of provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on the common set of rights for workers from third countries legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, on Articles 1, 7, 8 and 10 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u201	With regard to the procedure envisaged, I would like to remind you of the following: with regard to Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall take place when a request signed by 1/20 of the total number of Members is made, i.e. when it is signed by at least 15 Members. At the end of the debate on this matter, the names of the signatories shall be given the name of the Members of Parliament. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted, in accordance with Rule 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. If the minimum number of signatories is established, the meeting shall be suspended and a communication shall be made at the premises of the House. The sitting shall be resumed 10 minutes after the announcement. I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for Members to establish whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u203	Please, Mr. Pappa, let me read the list and then tell me what you want. Mr. Nikolaos Michaloliacos. Here you go. Mr Michael Avramis - Arvanitis. Here you go. Mr. George Galeos. Here you go. Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Fotius Gran. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Abstentions. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Artemis Matthaopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. Mrs. Despina Sveroni-Hondronasius. Here. Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas. Here you go. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u204	Madam President, since many Members were absent yesterday afternoon, I would like to inform the House that we have witnessed many irregularities on the part of the Bureau. There was a study yesterday and a slap in the interpretation of the vote on Article 1 or Article 1A or Article 1B. There was a break-up of articles at once - a hurry, I would say - on behalf of the Minister, but also of you as President, in order to avoid the motto of the roll-call vote. So at some point - and I quote from the Minutes - we can correct the request for a roll-call vote, and we had the reply of the Minister, who said: 'Mr Poppa, correct it, I have no problem, it will be voted on anyway'. What is the problem of voting, as I would say, in interpreting the logic of Article 1? We also have you, Madam President, on one point, and I will pass on to you on page 273 of the Minutes - I will give it to you to see - where I say it, speaking, please, colleagues for a little quiet - the following: 'We shall vote tomorrow for Rule 1 as a whole. For both 1A and 1B.’ And you answer, Madam President: "Dessina Charalapidou: Article 1 as a whole. Good.’ We also objected to Mr Athanasios' objection on behalf of the Officerial Representation, who agreed with our view. I don't know today if he keeps agreeing. We also had the opinion of Mr Kokkalis of the Independent Greeks, who also agreed with our view. So, Madam President, we want the vote to be carried out properly, in accordance with the parliamentary institutions, rather than with the picture and the perception that you had yesterday afternoon. I would like to prevent you and possibly another speaker from saying that 'yes, you are not right, you have not kept a good attitude in plenary yesterday' and I would like to tell you that we have all witnessed the behaviour of other Members in Parliament during the referendum debate that you have not invoked anyone and you have not called any Guardian. In conclusion, I would like to say that our behaviour is as mild as possible. The behavior and anger of the people will be such that they will not be Golden Earns who will stand against the anti-constitutional, anti-grassy and kleptonic arc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u206	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, I will only give the floor to the Minister and to no one else. We are in the process of holding the roll-call vote and the debate has been closed. Minister, here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to open a debate. I just want to clarify the procedural issue raised on this, Mr Javarra. There was a misunderstanding, because in the text of the entire bill, which was shared yesterday - and that is why it is shared all over again - there was a reference which was irregular, one would say, once again, about Article 1A, while in the legislative process - as was three times the Minister who spoke - it was clear - Article 1 is divided into 1A and 1B. [[At this point, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned text of the draft law, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, to be fair, a compost was created from the fact that there is 1A and 1B in the Code of Nationality and, at the same time, 1A and 1B in this law. Therefore, there are points where it says that Article 1 changes the 1A code of citizenship, while 1A of this law changes the 1B code of citizenship. However, I would like to say that, in substance, it is quite clear to the committees and here, and it was essential to separate them from the debate. It wasn't random. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I am therefore telling you, for the record, that Article 1A, which amends Article 1A of the Code of Nationality, is currently to be voted on today. Yesterday, Article 1A introducing 1B into the Code of Nationality was passed. I am presenting for the Minutes the legal treatment of the Minister, who has made it clear three times. I think it is now quite clear, after the reasonable debate that has taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Minister. As has been seen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Therefore, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we interrupt the sitting for ten (10') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, with the demand and unanimous opinion of all Parliamentary Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups, the adjourned session is resumed. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 1, 7, 8 and 10 of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’. Parliamentarians and Secretaries of Parliament, Mr Panayota Dritsel, are on the list by SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy, in accordance with Rule 72(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. According to paragraph 6 of that article, the recipients of the articles of the bill say ‘NEI’. The non-accepted articles of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. [[At this point, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras enters the Chamber]] [[Upright SYRIZA and ANEL MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] At this point, I would like to ask the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Zesi Zanna, to come here and accept the requests of Members who have serious hindrances to leave the province. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u211	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he were here he would vote 'no'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 263 Members voted. Article 1 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 179 MPs. 'OH' 84 MPs voted. 'PARON' were adopted by 0 Members. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 7 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 232 MPs. (Parliament adopted the resolution) 'PARON' were adopted by 0 Members. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 8 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 179 MPs. 'OH' 84 MPs voted. 'PARON' were adopted by 0 Members. Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 10 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 179 MPs. 'OH' 84 MPs voted. 'PARON' were adopted by 0 Members. Article 10 was therefore accepted by a majority in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote of the nominee in the bill. Asked by this House: Will the office be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u222	The office was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: “Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting the Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’, has been accepted in principle and on articles by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u223	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u226	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u231	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: “Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single permit for residence and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for workers from third countries legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-09-S1-commons.u233	With the consent of the House at 15.39 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, Friday, 10 July 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a topical questions debate pursuant to Rule 130 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
