ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, at 21: 05, the agenda, which has not yet been distributed, has been posted, I expect the Services to be informed. Meanwhile, because we have a change in the composition of the Parliament, since our colleague, Mr Nikos Hountis, resigned from Parliament, who accepts Manolis Glezos in the European Parliament, we have a new colleague, George Kritsis, who will enter the position of Mr Hood, and because all of us Members and all of us have an oath on the basis of the Constitution, I will invite the fellow Member to give a political oath, as he has said. Come on, Mr Colleague, before Parliament, to give the political oath according to the tradition created during this parliamentary term: "I assure my honor and conscience that I will be faithful in my homeland and democratic city, I will obey the Constitution and the laws, and I will be conscientiously fulfilling my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u2	I swear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u3	Awesome, Mr. Comrade! Welcome to the House! [[Applause]] We will be waiting, as necessary, for the opening of the procedure to inform us that the distribution of the agenda has been completed. Mrs. Stathy, please let us know. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is 21.18 seconds - I say this so that we are aware of the consequences of specific decisions - and the electronic distribution of the agenda is now over and the paper continues. By the end of the day, I will read the agenda which has been distributed electronically. We have adopted a supplementary agenda, a priority, in accordance with the urgency procedure. I just want to tell you that the Conference of Presidents, by a majority of its members, had decided to start the sitting on 20.40. That was, as it turns out, impossible, as the procedures have not yet been completed. The Conference decided on the following two subjects on the agenda: I should like to begin by the unanimous decision, which is to take a decision extending the deadline for the submission of the first conclusion of the intergroup parliamentary committee on the claim of German debts, war damages, corrections, repayments, repayments of the mortgage, reimbursements of the stolen archaeological treasures, and prolonging its work to the completion of its subject-matter. The Conference of Presidents, acting unanimously on a proposal from me, decided to extend the deadline for the submission of the committee's first conclusion, which expired today on 15 July, on 30 September 2015 and to extend the work of the committee until the completion of its subject-matter. It is a decision that can be taken by Parliament without debate. In view of the unanimous proposal made by the Conference of Presidents, I would like to propose to the House, acting unanimously, that we accept this extension, on the one hand, on the first conclusion and, on the other hand, on the work of the committee. Does the House accept it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u4	So the House unanimously agreed on the extension. The second item on the agenda and the main item on the agenda is the only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Urgent arrangements for negotiating and concluding an agreement with the European Support Mechanism (ESM)", for which the Co-presidential Committees for Economic Affairs, Social Affairs, Public Administration, Public Orders and Justice and Trade decided by majority vote on the draft law in accordance with the urgency procedure provided for in Articles 76(4) of the Constitution and 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Committees' report was completed and submitted at 18.15 p.m. The Conference of Presidents was convened immediately, which decided by a majority at its meeting of 15 July 2015 to open the debate tonight at 20.40 a.m. The practically impossible thing has been proved, but we're already starting. The Secretariat has just informed me that the distribution has been completed at 21: 23. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I inform all my fellow Members that the Rules of Procedure will be applied very strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u5	To you first!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u6	Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, which is the regulatory application of Rule 76(4) of the Constitution, which provides that a bill or a proposal for a law characterised by the Government is urgently introduced to vote, after a limited debate in a sitting, by the plenary or by the section referred to in Rule 71, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 109, bills and proposals of laws characterised by the Government as an urgency pursuant to Article 76(4) of the Constitution shall be referred immediately after their submission to the committee responsible. The President of Parliament shall set a time limit for the submission of the report in accordance with Rule 89(4). Indeed, the bill was tabled yesterday at 18:09, it was referred today at 10: 00' in the co-legislative four committees and in due course the committees submitted their report at 18: 15. If the committee accepts its designation of urgency, it shall draw up and examine the draft law or proposed law at a meeting. Immediately after the committee's report has been submitted or the deadline for its submission, the bills and proposals of laws referred to in the previous paragraph shall be entered as a priority on the agenda by way of derogation from Article 91(7). The debate and vote on urgent draft laws and urgent proposals is closed at a maximum of ten hours. At the beginning of the sitting, the House may, on a proposal from its President, determine the time allocated to the first and second readings. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask my fellow Members not to make a fuss. The legislative procedure is not decorative. If, for any reason, a Parliament decision is not taken in accordance with the preceding paragraph, four hours are allocated to the debate in principle and six hours to the debate referred to in Article. In principle and in the written debate, apart from the rapporteurs, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of Parliament and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the year provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. After the list of speakers referred to in the previous paragraph has been exhausted, and in any event after the 10th hour has been completed, the debate shall be declared adjourned at any stage and the vote shall be held in principle, in accordance with Rule and in whole. I would like to inform you that the Conference of Presidents decided by a majority to recommend that the debate and vote be completed at 24.00 p.m. This decision was taken by those members of the Conference who supported it, on the grounds that this is the government's suggestion and wish. However, on the one hand, and on the other, in contact with the Prime Minister himself, I found that there is no question of such a strict time limit that we can even circumvent the urgency of the matter and, on the other hand, whether the House was taking such a decision, namely, at 24.00 hours, would mean that the urgency procedure would not even speak. I therefore propose that we conclude the debate as it is taking place in the urgent procedure - if the House decides that it will adopt it - that is to say, in principle, a joint debate with an integrated circle without the time limit of 12 hours. I would also like to put to you the proposal of the majority of the Conference - because we have also been members of the Conference that we had a different view - but which was taken on a given basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u7	Didn't it make a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u8	Please don't make a fuss! The House will decide. This is Parliament. It's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u9	The Conference has decided! As the Conference decided, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u10	Mr Georgiadis, stop interrupting and blocking the procedure because this is an anti-parliamentary behaviour. The Conference therefore proposes by a majority - with the data I have told you - and the plenary is called upon to decide. I will give the government the floor, Mr Voutsi, to confirm to us what the government's position is and then to each of the rapporteurs for two minutes. Mr. Voutsis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, I would ask the Government to keep up with the timetable set by the majority of the Conference of Presidents to a maximum of 24.00. Either way - as far as I know - the Prime Minister and the President of the Civilian Police Party will not be placed. We want - and we wanted - from yesterday - until 24 a.m. today that law has been passed by this House, voted in favour or, in any case, the House has made the decision. It is in your knowledge - and you know it - that since yesterday we made the request, with the possibility of the committees being made last night, so that today it is possible, within the right time, for Parliament to function with a greater comfort. For reasons that, in any event, this is not possible yesterday, the procedure must be carried out. In the light of this pressure of time, I would ask very much that the timetable which the majority of the Conference of Presidents set out so that we can end at the will of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u12	Minister, with the clarification that my briefing is the opposite - it is exactly what I mentioned - after contacting me with the Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u13	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u14	Who's lying, Madam President? You or Mr. Voutiss?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u15	...I give the floor to the parliamentary representatives of the parties if they so wish. Is there a parliamentary representative who wants the floor? There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u17	Mr Michaliokos has the floor as President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u18	I agree to close the process at 24.00 p.m., let alone today's meeting is held at the request of the merchants of the nations in Brussels. This whole process today is on request, that the House vote today and once again on the 22nd of the month to give us the green light. Therefore, the sooner it ends the better and the more honorable, if you will, and less degrading, it will be for Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u19	Is there a colleague who wants to speak? Nobody. We will therefore vote on the proposal for the Conference. The Conference therefore proposes to conclude by 24 noon. I would ask those colleagues who vote in favour of this process to do so by raising their hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u20	Eide, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u21	Who's the lady who yelled at you? [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] The vote is taken by raising the hand, Mrs Karamanlis, and I would ask that there be no voices. Those who vote in favour of completing the circle of speakers provided for in the Rules of Procedure raise their hands. [[At this point, the acceptances of the proposal are being postponed.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy and the River]] It was therefore decided to complete the procedure by 24.00. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask that this House be quiet. I would also ask Mr Metropoulou to preside over the rest of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u22	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u23	I would like to wish that this process is the first and last that is being conducted in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u24	But quit the president's position too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u25	You two stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u26	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Deputy Ministers of Economic and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction tabled a draft law on 14-7-2015: ‘Urgent arrangements for the negotiation and conclusion of an agreement with the European Support Mechanism (EPM).(')'. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. Also, the Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Production and Trade submitted their report to the draft law: "Urgent arrangements for negotiating and concluding an agreement with the European Support Mechanism (E.M.S.).(')'. Minister, would you like to speak first? You want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u27	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u28	The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have finished my speech in committee with a reference to Chu En-Lei who, when asked what he thinks about the French Revolution, said that it is too early to judge her. That's how I feel about this deal. Many will depend on changes in Europe. The whole of Europe is talking about Greece. The whole of Europe is discussing the point of the referendum. The whole of Europe is discussing the meaning of this agreement, what it means to Greece and what it means to Europe. You should be aware that Europe in the coming years will be tested and one of the reasons for it will be for the questions raised by our own government. I do not hide from you that I do not have the same feelings for Europe I used to have. It will be tried if this Europe really can respect democracy, pluralism, diversity. Many will depend on the economy, on whether the very hard budgetary measures will be compensated for what we have won in the investment and debt programme, if it will eventually be far from the Grexit agenda, if the compact demand for consumers can recover, if the savings makers turn them back to the banks, if investors return. I don't know. There is one thing I know, however, that in order for this Europe and that Greece to return to development there must be alliances that are constantly fighting against austerity and that this problem will eventually be resolved at social and political level. A lot will be judged by politicians and by the political system, by how it can manage these changes that exist within this agreement, for example, how it will manage this fund, which we tried to be in Greece, can be repaid in relation to the loan and therefore any privatisation to go to ten and fifteen and twenty years, but above all it can be an investment fund that can support productive reconstruction. A lot will depend on how we deal with pension changes, how together we will decide that we want a society and an economy that has been working for many years, but at the same time pays taxes and these taxes, there may be collective consumption rather than work less and only have private consumption and only have rich big pensions. A lot will depend on the big programme. I heard we were pressed, since it's a loan for three years, and there's also a bigger program. We have said that there must be a richer programme and we have tried to put things into our programme on corruption, on public administration, on tax evasion, on these things that we will discuss with the OECD, together with the World Bank, together with other international organisations. There will be a different relationship between the state and the economy, there will be a different relationship between the state and society, and this will release a new energy, new forms of production, new ideas, and, above all, the old political system will be hit. And I don't know that. But one thing I know: if our Left and our Government do not hit the old political system this place has no future. Much will depend on how we tackle social justice, on how we can make a redistribution of income. I never thought the "pipe" should be increased before we split this "pipe". And we have made efforts in this area, we have made efforts to lay the burdens elsewhere. We have increased the solidarity tax for those who have over 30 thousand euros income and escalating more, 8% for Members, in consultation with all the parties, to show that the MPs are taking part in this great effort. We've increased the tax on profits from 26% to 29%. Of course, we wanted to do other things that did not allow us at this stage. But I must tell you, at the same time, that I am fully aware that there are many difficult measures here, such as VAT, which do not work in favour of redistribution. So much will depend on whether we can, for example, increase VAT collection, whether with what we are going to gain, whether from this collection or tax evasion, we can start to reverse the injustices either on the islands or in the agricultural sector. Our government's promise is that as we fought for the world of work we will continue to fight and these will always be our own people and our first priority. I want to say something to my comrades and companions from this side. We never made the situation look good, we never triumphed. Instead, we have always tried to show the real problems we have. I have to tell you that on Monday morning at 9:30 the hour was the most difficult day of my life. It's been a decision that's been burdening me all my life. I don't know if we did the right thing, but I know we did something we felt we had no choice. And we didn't even have any assurances. And we don't even have any assurances. We do not say that those who are from this side of this decision have all the good arguments and those who are on the other side have all the bad arguments. We're not saying the right thing is on one side, and the wrong one is on the other side. In the big political issues always smart people may be different, but they may differ politically and understand each other. We have never said that this is a good deal and I call on everyone to think if we can go along so that we can do our best for the world of work and for this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. The President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, said earlier that all Europe is discussing the referendum. In fact, all Europe is talking about the referendum, because no one has understood how within five days a 'no' of 61.3% has become 'yes'. No one's ever understood it, and he's never going to understand it, because he's abolishing these very laws of reason. Why did the people vote in the referendum on 5 July 2015? Here's a ballot in a photocopy. The question is clear: Is the draft agreement to be accepted, which the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund have submitted, and which consists of two parties, which constitute a single proposal? The Greek people also decided 'no'. And five days later, on 10 July, the government came here with a proposal, which turned 'no' into 'yes', with a proposal much worse than the proposal 'Yunker' for which the Greek people declared themselves with 'no'. It is obvious - with the laws of common sense, there is no need for a high political analysis - that we are talking about betraying this will of the Greek people, about destroying popular sovereignty. Because it is clear that the 'no' to the Juncker proposal outweighs the new proposal that you bring and which is clearly worse. At this point, of course, we should congratulate those parties which supported 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes'. That's the reality, that's what it looks like in practice. The winners of the 'yes', against the will of the people, of 61.3%. And at this point I would like to ask: those who decide all this after a referendum - the first after forty-one years - what role do they take? Are they the tutors of the people? Is the foolish people who voted like that? How do they give their opinion in a brutal manner, in violation of the logic, of the very will of the people? Moreover, today's process is disgraceful for the Parliament of the country, since it is on the order of the 'traders of the nations', of the lenders, who - to say a small example - are looking at us - and in some cases right - for early retirement. But, you know, ladies and gentlemen, who have imposed early pensions on Greece? The European Union itself! He did not want Greek farmers and farmers, he wanted them to be prematurely retired, so that the field for their own farmers and farmers is free, so that we can have today's balance, the very precarious for Greece, which imports far more from France, from Germany and the other countries of the European Union than it exports. At this point I would like to say that they have my deepest appreciation for those who remain faithful to their ideas, as much as I am against them, by choosing the path of their conscience from the path of party discipline. As far as today's legislation is concerned, the principle of starting the agreement is concerned: we must first of all talk about what constitutes the soul of the nation, was the soul of the nation for more than three thousand years, about the world of farmers whose government, with the agreement of most of the opposition parties, considers them 'businessmen', free traders, and calls for their taxation from the first euro. They have had the serious problems of farmers, and they are now expected to be over-taxed. Any reduction in their taxation on oil and it is abrogated. And of course we also have the rise in VAT indicators. VAT is an indirect tax, and in this case it is a capitalist tax, comrades on the left - and any indirect tax is a capitalist tax - and it is unfair, because the millionaire will pay the poor too. Of course, it will not matter to the rich if he pays more VAT by buying the basic foodstuffs. But it definitely matters to the poor people. I would like to mention one fact at this point. On Monday, with regard to the serious political developments in our country, and after the agreement of our party spokesman with the Vice-President of the ERT, I made a four-minute statement to my office in the House, given that at no TV stations are the positions of the third political party in the country. Do you want to know how to deal with it? ERT played forty-five seconds and private channels – "MEGA", "ANTENNA", "SKAI", "ALPHA" etc. - played between fifteen and three seconds. There was a private channel that from this four-minute statement played three seconds! If that's not censorship, what is it? And at this point, I would like to tell you that you have delayed one day. Yesterday, on Tuesday, you officially said, with a government announcement, that you're going to run a competition on channel frequencies. What changed all of a sudden? As you agreed with the lenders, did you agree with the canalarchs? Because this was the case, it was written - and only - in a Sunday newspaper. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among what this legislation contains is an Foundation, which was first said to be in Luxembourg. Only in this statement should the Greek Government withdraw immediately. Finally, the Foundation says it will have a seat in Athens, but it will actually be the same. A battle of impressions is taking place and nothing else. And what will this Foundation have? It will have PPC, the ports, the airports and - why not? - and the natural wealth of Greece, hydrocarbons, gas, oil, which is assumed to exist in Greece's major geopolitical area. We are talking about a complete dismantling of national sovereignty. We have reached the point that we have to come here to vote for what time the ovens will open and close, what the pharmacy will sell and what the supermarkets will sell. We're a country in possession. It is not a free state to impose 'traders of nations in Brussels' on how we operate. Even worse, they have come to demand by law that we annul court decisions on retrospectives, which have been adopted by court rulings. And of course we have to ask ourselves: is this a memorandum? I think it is worth noting that we are moving towards the third memorandum, a memorandum which will be not only left this time, but also with the agreement of the other parties in the opposition. The Prime Minister and many others spoke himself and said "we found ourselves before extortion". One of the old journalists once told me that in order for there to be blackmailers, there must be blackmailers. Indeed, Germany has many reasons and many business, in particular the ‘SIEMENS’ since the '90s with the Universal, with the digital services, when it granted them to say that they have reasons and have points in which to pressure Greece. A major issue is the famous liquidity. There's been a referendum. The suffering of the Greek people continues. In the tails of ATM, the Greek people are really sighing. We also had the first action against the European Central Bank by a private person for the ELA's "fresh" which led to the capital controls. It has already been submitted to the European Court of Justice by the Greek private investment fund "ALKIMOS" of the interests of Mr George Kindis, who calls for the annulment of the decisions taken regarding the rejection of the Greek State's request for an increase of ELA to the European banks. I said that in my speech last time in the House. Those who cut the liquidity on the Greek people, possibly trying to punish or pressure the government, are clearly economic killers. The rejection of the request by the European Central Bank in accordance with paragraph 14-4 of the Rules of Procedure of the European System of Central Banks, which allows national banks to perform functions such as the extension of the ELA, unless the 2/3 majority of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank considers that this function is contrary to its Rules of Procedure. The Governing Council of the European Central Bank has never met. The two-thirds of the Council have never decided to stop liquidity. That was an economic crime. But even greater crime is the fact that neither the Greek Government nor the Civic Opposition nor any institution or political factor in the country has denounced the European Central Bank. The position of Golden Dawn is clear, against dilemmas and dangers: Return to national production, return to self-sufficiency. This is the only thing that can save Greece. Only Greeks can save Greece. As far as the measures are concerned, they're not going to pay. The measures will bring greater poverty, unemployment and social crisis. What do you think is going to be done with the overtaxation of any profitable business that's left? Where are they going to pass this overtax? They will transfer it to their employees and consumers. Unemployment will grow even further. And you do not just give the basis of overtaxing these businesses, but even that of the owners of certain apartments that get rents. There's no healthier investment than investing in your homeland, on earth, in real estate. And you punish them for that, at the same time that nothing has happened with thousands of offshores and the Lagard list. There you are bringing VAT on tenants and consumers! The position of the Golden Dawn is that this agreement is a national humiliation. Golden Dawn remains stable in its place. As he said 'no' in previous memorials, so will he say 'no' and in this memorial, 'no' in xenophobia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u34	You have the floor for a minute, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I have a personal matter. Of course, the Minister for Finance is not at this moment in the government's headquarters, but has addressed the Members of the majority, and he said that he is not sure he was doing the right thing. In this House and in me and in each of us, he did not speak in favour of the law and its introduction. Please come to the Chamber and be placed on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, rapporteur of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to present the bill, after all. We all know it's a billed product of an agreement with prerequisites. This is a difficult agreement. We are all aware of the juncture, pressure and extortion within which this agreement has been reached. So I want to avoid defending the bill, but the need to vote. There are tough measures in this bill that can be proved to be material. But there is no need to apologize for fighting and fighting. I am not apologizing because in a war we are making retreats and manoeuvres. We are not allowed to do this by the Greek people. The Greek people do not allow us to be retreated from the leadership of the political scenery. But before that, I would like to stress the effort that is being made outside and inside so that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government can be a parentheses. This effort has not stopped. I can assure you that, in my view, this is not going to stop. The most characteristic is the attack against the referendum, not on the result of the referendum, but on the idea of a referendum, namely on the idea that democracy can work and that society can have a say. We heard this in statements from those officials who were earlier pressing and threatening, creating financial suffocation, talking about 'Grexit', pushing the country bankrupt, as they had been bankrupt and pooring our people. One of these is the effort of the system within Greece, both economic and media. The same people who were calling 'agreement and whatever it is' days ago make the annoyed. Today they start talking about individual measures - they highlight them and they exaggerate them - and they are said to be saying out loud: 'But is it possible for a left-wing government to sign such an agreement?' Others say Friday, but on Monday for the government itself. We feel that the Left cannot turn its back on the power that society gives it because it believes that the subjective factor, namely social consciousness, has not matured, but must fight together with society and to better the country itself, but also the living level of the people, and also to raise this awareness. So let's answer them clearly. The Left Government is neither parentheses nor a bizarre period, the Left Government is the new path of history. Let me come back to the deal. It's not like that. In 2010 there were multiple options for the Greek economy and for the Greek society. Then the road of strict austerity was chosen and Greece as a test animal to save foreign banks from toxic bonds. Nor was it the same in 2011 when it was chosen to transfer the foreign debt and become an internal debt and, in fact, immediately thereafter deleted, with the result that the insurance funds and legal persons under public law will be lost within one night. This agreement, or even better this situation, which we are currently living on, is a product not only of agreements, not only of memoranda, but of policy, which has been followed for five years and has brought us to this situation. Of course, I must stress that the situation before was not good. We cannot cry here in the remnants of 2008, 2000, 1990. A system that deindustrialized the country was forming, dismantling production, forming a customer state over areas that were also about everyday life. All this should, in my opinion, be remembered. So, consciously, this path of pan-European social austerity was chosen, and consciously this road has social significance, and at the same time it is also an attempt to be Greece and a experimental animal and a country always in debt. The proposals finally accepted by the Greek side and reflected in the draft law put tough dilemmas. The difficult decision, with which we agreed at the summit, is the first step that prevents financial suffocation, prevents the banks from falling apart, thereby preventing the deposits from being depleted. However, we must stress that a great deal of work is needed in the sense that financial stability does not exclude in advance the risk of economic suffocation on the one hand and, secondly, the battle remains to be fought so that the outcome of any production process goes to a social advantage rather than to ordinary hands. The course is ahead, the Greek people and the government must continue to fight, prevent extortion and suffocation through economic coups not only in words, but also in practice. Today we have some new conditions. We talked about these at the previous sitting. World public opinion has been mobilised in our favour. We have brought the demand for democracy, solidarity and economic and social convergence to the fore on the basis of the basic social needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u38	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u39	We have created - even temporary - new alliances. We put the debt issue on the table and European debts. We have managed to recognise its pan-European dimension and the need for an integrated plan that characterises it as unsustainable on a path that will make it sustainable. We are energising the relevant European directive, which ensures deposits of up to EUR 100,000 from the Eurosystem. At the same time, we seek space and time and we need to use this space and time. Our country has comparative advantages. It is not the country they used to call 'Psychocostantin', which can and should always live in loan. We have dynamism, which we must exploit and has been devalued over the past few years. We have potential in the agri-food sector, potential for tourism, renewable energy, shipping and shipbuilding, construction, education and culture. Political leadership together with society increasingly needs to focus on the need for our society's creative forces, namely our human capital. We need to focus on the citizens' creative everyday life, the quality of their lives and tie it up not only with the growth of the economy, but also with the redistribution of the wealth produced. All this needs plan and work to implement it. We must admit that we have had significant deficiencies in this area. Our direction in negotiating has created deficits in day-to-day activity. We do not need a lot of talk as a country, we need a lot of work. We need not just to talk about unemployment but to resolve the unemployment issue. We do not need a financial system for banks and loan sharks. We need bank credit and incentives to generate values. We urgently need to put forward a process of three reorganisations. As far as the government is concerned, it is responsible for the reconstruction of the public sector, so that it is socially creative and economically effective. At the same time, we need to form a framework to rebuild the private sector so that, on the one hand, the public does not work in favour of the private sector and, on the other hand, the private sector also operates for the benefit of society. It will thus be creatively integrated into national and European planning. Finally, we need what we do not have in Greece: the new establishment of the social sector of the economy, which the Memorandum of Understanding has shown in its five years and has emerged as solidarity, but which must be transformed into an economic instrument in the interests of society. And all this must be done under conditions of reconstruction of democracy and social cohesion. It is clear to me that in these historic moments each one stands not only against the mirror of his or her personal life and his or her longest or shortest history. It stands at the same time against the reality of the needs and historical courses of the people, the country and Europe. In battles and life there are successes, difficulties and failures. There are victories, manoeuvres and retreats. That's when you stay alive and in action. And when you're alive and in action, you're allowed to retreat, but be determined to move on, probably sometimes and fall, but you have to get up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has asked for the floor. At the latest today by 24 noon, the two roll-call votes submitted by the Communist Party of Greece and the Golden Dawn will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u41	History eventually does not just repeat itself as a prank, but rather as a tragedy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u42	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u43	The scene of the Greek people has lived before. In 2010 from the "money there are" Mr. George Papandreou arrived at the barbaric Memorandum number 1. In 2012, from Mr. Samaras' Zappy programme and the vote on the first Memorandum, we reached the Memorandum number 2. Today, in 2015 from the program of Thessaloniki, we "we will tear all the memorials" of Mr. Tsipras, we arrived at the Memorandum number 3.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u44	Gentlemen, be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u45	For everyone, it's time for the truth at some point. This time has come for you, Mr. Tsipras! I hope from an office here or at the Maximos Mansion you can hear me, because so far you have not appeared in this Chamber discussing such a crucial issue. Demagogy, conscious deception reached its limit. Everything you've told us about the memorials you'd rip up, about the duvets you'd hit and danced on the markets, unfortunately, they're not laughing now, because the bill that the people are asked to pay is very bitter, very heavy and unsurpassed. The people will pay the lousy "Tsipras Memorial". Unfortunately, for you the fairy tale of hard, proud negotiation is over, no one is convinced anymore. It has been revealed that the European Union is a reactionary, imperialist alliance, which does not change by referendum. It was revealed that no bourgeois government or left-handed duo can be burdened with those who keep keys to the economy, i.e. monopolistic groups. It has been shown that the competition of the imperialist centres, the dispute between Germany and France, the United States of America, does not concern the protection of popular rights, but their profits, the profits of capital. Anti-grass plans have Shoeble, but also your friends, Olad, Obama, who's supposed to be enemies of austerity. A storm of anti-grassroots measures has promoted and continued to promote Holland in France, while Lagard of the International Monetary Fund, in which the United States dominate, is taking the lead in demolition of the remaining insurance rights. You're only talking about Shoeble, and you forget about Cameron, Lepen, Lew. Everyone together has asked for measures to be taken to slaughter our people. The 'cohesion' of the European Union, in which you are bowing, has never been a Union of peace, parity, solidarity and solidarity. It is a matter for the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, and for the Council. Anti-communists, rabid enemies at the time of the Soviet Union and the labour movement internationally were its founders, Adenawer and Suman you admire. That is why the EDPS described - before the junta, the old EDAC - the then EEC pit as a pit of lions and its founders, whom you are praising today. Ask anyone else, Mr Tsipras, Mr Flavouraris, for example, to inform you about this because you are not doing well with history. You say you did everything you could to deal with creditors extortion. You're lying! You have misinterpreted much of the people that it is enough to strengthen you in the polls to reach a philosophical agreement. At the same time as you said the troika was blackmailing you, you are presenting as a one-way street your stay in this blackmail prison. You signed the agreement on 20 February and did not prepare or even presented any alternative to the people. One day after the referendum, you were embraced by the leaders of "yes" to present the signature of a new agreement as the only option with the same arguments, the same intimidation and dilemmas we have heard in recent years. Now you are amazed, in fact, at the harsh attitude of the European Union and the European Central Bank! But everything that happened at the banks was already being presented as a possible scenario in the run-up to the elections by Mr Varoufakis, your until the day before yesterday! Who are you trying to make fun of? It is courageous to speak even today of the harsh, proud battle that you have fought against lenders. Are you proud of the new reduction in the income of employees, self-employed, pensioners, the freezing of pensions in essence and the increase in pensions, unjust indirect taxes, the increases in VAT on food, which equally affect unequal incomes? Do you feel proud of the equalisation of labour rights, the abolition of Sunday holidays, the hit on farmers, the sweeping privatizations, the increase in the tax evacuation of self-employed professionals and traders? What would SYRIZA say if these endless measures proposed by some of the previous governments, when you yourself described the measures of e-mail Hardouvelis as unbearable? So leave half the bills and tell the people which hands will find the rights of exploration and exploitation of indigenous hydrocarbons after the approval of the independent fund to which Greek assets of great value will be transferred. Answer me. What real guarantees can you give for popular deposits, after the Community framework directive on the recovery and resolution of domestic credit institutions is adopted at national level, which means simply greek-language deposit haircuts? The new myth, accompanied by the monastery, has two components. The first is the notorious fairer sharing of burdens. You've exceeded every limit, really, filthy propaganda. What do you say to the worker, the farmer, the retired man? You tell him to forget what burdens have already been borne on his back from the two previous anti-grassroots memorials, to accept that all the previous anti-grass laws, which you would have abolished with an article, have come to stay, accept on his back and the new mountain of anti-grassroots measures and, furthermore, consider that all of this is compensated, because the taxation of companies with profits of up to EUR 50 000, which are of course not the monopolistic groups. There is no additional tax burden for monopolies, while provoking tax exemptions continue. Mercy! You are challenging the possibility of redistribution, while shipowners continue to pay the fares for a few days as an annual tax. You're talking about fair redistribution, while your Minister, Mr. Kourublis, was planning to increase prices in the generics produced by the domestic pharmaceutical industry. On these issues and the war spending, you did not sign the original Juncker proposals to satisfy your pals, some shipowners, some pharmaceuticals, and I don't know what. The second key element of the trade of hope, which you are provoking, is the prospect of returning to capitalist growth with the Junker Investment Package and the promises of restructuring the state debt. Neither little nor much, you show the recovery of the profits of the monopolistic groups as a path leading to popular prosperity. Who are you kidding? Has the strong position of the tourist industry rapidly led to the loss of jobs of workers in the years of the crisis? Can the profitability of capital, without increasing the wages paid by workers, increase the level of their exploitation? Employees know the answer, experience it every day. Everyone remembers that the previous debt restructuring, the big haircut that took place at the time, was accompanied by an escalation of the anti-population attack. The same happens now. The people are being forced into bankruptcy, paying, among other things, a state debt, which did not create or which did not benefit from its growth. Besides, the new big Juncker package you're advertising isn't that young. In fact, it includes the well-known funds of the next ESDP, i.e. the EWRS, which has already been on the table for too long. What are your supports, Mr. Tsipras? The three political guardians of the great capital: The New Democracy, the PASOK and the River actively support your policy, which serves the bourgeoisie. The industrialists and the other employers are beating you friendlyly on the back to fulfill the so-called national order of the people's bankruptcy. All together, they are showing the fear of state bankruptcy, so that the people can accept the slowest death of the continuing deterioration and impoverishment brought about by the new agreement. This is an extremely fragile agreement on every step of it, as the disagreements between Britain and Germany confirm yesterday about the formation of the original small bridge agreement. On the back of the Greek people, the dispute between France and Germany is exacerbated for the future of the Eurozone, as well as between the United States of America and Germany for the hegemony in Europe. This is why Grexit cannot be excluded in the next period, later, despite the interim agreement. The question is whether there is an alternative today. We respond that there is, of course. However, it is no alternative for the people, capitalist Greece of drachma. But let us look at this drachma solution, which is naively adopted by some. We insist that there is no way out for the people for the drachma that either Shoeble or Lepen or Soros or the British Eurosceptics, as well as various other fascists in our country or across Europe, are seeking to resolve the drachma. The only winners in Greece from this solution would be certain groups of shipping, pharmaceuticals, arms trade. However, the people will continue to sacrifice their needs on the altar of the competitiveness of monopolies that will continue to hold the keys to the economy. The people will pay again in this case in another way, i.e. with the high rise in inflation, the black market, the exact imports and others. That is why Mr Lafazanis, Mr Lapavitsa or other groups have great responsibilities in and out of Parliament. After supporting SYRIZA's leadership on this path and contributing to disarmament of the People's Movement, they are now proposing a polluting way out to continue their role as victories of a deadlocked foreign policy by the people of interests. There is a road that really abolishes the European Union's commitments to domestic production, from meat, sugar, to shipyards and other sectors of the economy. There is the road that roots capitalist profit as a basic criterion of production and sets social people's needs as a guide. This road will enable, for example, us to get out of the crisis in the construction sector, to meet the needs of infrastructure projects that they need, or the housing needs of thousands of young people who currently have to live with their parents. There is the way to conclude the first period of mutually advantageous international agreements on the import of food, medicines, energy, since Greece of the people's power will have broken the bonds and prisons in which it is currently bound by hand in the European Union and NATO. In order to open up this path, we must now organize, unite the people, reconstitute the labour movement immediately, acquire clear anti-capitalist orientation, move on the basis of demands for immediate relief measures, develop its social popular alliance with the other people's movements, which have an orientation against monopolies, strengthen co-existence with the Communist Party of Greece, regardless of individual differences or reservations. It is now the only hope for our people, for youth, for getting out of the crisis to the benefit of popular prosperity. We think that people should not enter under foreign flags. The flag of the working class, the struggles of our people, the really painted with the red blood of their children, the blue-white flag of the heroes of this country will wave really proudly when our own people decide to take them into their hands and lift them even higher.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President of the Communist Party. Minister Tsakalotos has the floor for two minutes to make some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u47	I won't need two minutes. I will submit - and please share - an addition that is for ELSTAT, the elements that ELSTAT needs. It has to do with both the state and the Central Bank. So, in cooperation with the ECB and the Bank of Greece we have tried to find out how they can work together in a better way. I do not think there is anything there with which colleagues and colleagues will have a problem. There are some legislative improvements. I would ask that they be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u48	I would ask that the Secretariat receive the documents and be distributed to the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u50	The president of PASOK, Mrs Fofi Generations, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time when the entire Greek people are watching us with their breath, I think the Prime Minister should be here, in the Chamber, present. Publicly and responsibly, we must stand against the Greek people and the international public opinion that is following us. It is an institutional challenge to this major issue on the future of the country, the Prime Minister, who negotiated, agreed and signed it, not to inform the Greek people responsiblely through the Greek Parliament, at the same time, when he informed his party a few hours ago. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] I wanted to start positive. We prevented - I hope - the Grexit, at the very latest, with a joint effort. We have avoided unscrupulous bankruptcy and total destruction. The compromise was necessary for the geopolitical stability and security of our country in this region we live in, in the Balkans, in the south-eastern Mediterranean. Mr Tsipras must recognise the decisive contribution of the political forces of opposition and, of course, the decisive contribution of the MPs. Two hundred and fifty-five Members gave him the mandate and opened the way for effective negotiation. It must also recognise the undivided support of the leaders of the socialist parties in Europe. They are the ones who canceled the plans of the extreme neoliberal and nationalist forces, and I must thank them through this Chamber, since the Prime Minister has not done so yet! [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] PASOK took timely initiatives. We have united with them. And we are proud, because we have secured this valuable support for our country. I come to the hard times now, and then I go to the hardest. Mr Tsipras, as he told us yesterday, regrettably understood that his destructive drachma ministers were finally going hand in hand with the great opponent and enemy, Mr Symble, with the objective of driving Greece outside Europe, outside the Eurozone. It has an absolute responsibility to put an end to the dangerous shadow theatre and the sad witch hunt. It has an absolute obligation to ensure the stability of the country. We must now stop the pointless theories of a troika of interior and coup d'état. It offends all those who actively supported us. Mostly, however, some people are doing in here that they do not understand that the agreement bears the signature of Mr Tsipras himself. So what are they telling us? That Mr. Tsipras has signed the coup d'état against them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u52	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u53	Did you sign it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u54	Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u55	Did you suffer, yes or no? Are you going to answer? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not for us to say that Mr Tsipras signs the third and worst Memorandum, with the most horrendous measures. It would be right for us to build on the efforts of the previous years, the previous governments and finally the Greek people, efforts that you deliberately slandered and slandered over all these years. You received an economy that had begun to stabilise and developed with almost 2% annually. We have not talked - and I personally - about'success story'. I know that much more effort was needed to show the results in the middle Greek family, which has been subjected to enormous sacrifices. Truths, however, must be said, especially in critical times. The banks had been recapitalised. The 2014 budget was balanced and Greece still had to receive money from the last programme. What did this government achieve? In the first stage, in the months of creative ambiguity, return to negative growth rates. In the second stage, with the referendum, in which the Prime Minister proposed 'no', from the result, but we understand that he wanted 'yes', we had a rapid deterioration in economic activity and a weakening of the banking system. And I come to the worst: firstly, after the new memorandum, the first on the left, new measures are needed to 'run' the country with a balanced budget and not for the surpluses for which the fuss has been made. Secondly, 25 billion for the banks. They probably didn't need any money. And in any case, there was the 11 billion-dollar pillow that you lost. Thirdly, you would prosecute the International Monetary Fund brought in by the 'bad governments'. All the partners have demanded it and, of course, the International Monetary Fund remains. Fourthly, you committed yourself to cutting off the debt. The result? You have had enough of a report to start the debate on this after the first assessment. Fifth, you spoke of a strong development package. The money you're referring to was almost data that would be given. Leverage is done. It's time for the hallucinations to stop, stop lying. Let us finally agree in this Chamber that we no longer need parties and politicians who imitate what Dionysus Savvopoulos sings: “The news that brought us was all a lie. But they sounded pleasantly in our ears because they looked like each one of his lies. And when he heard him, our soul was quiet." Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement is difficult, painful, but it keeps Greece standing. We did not negotiate and we did not sign these burdensome terms. You did it. However, the agreement must be completed and implemented as a basis for a sustainable solution for the future of Greece. In addition to the agreement, we now need an integrated plan for the future, for productive reconstruction, for changes in the political system, for the social state. It's not enough prerequisites. We have achieved a reduction in debt. Claim for its restructuring, which will even allow us to transfer resources for investments. No more talking. Now we need measurable targets, strict timing, tangible results. Ladies and gentlemen, our vote today is not a vote of confidence in the government. I have said many times from this Step forward that we do not give you a white check, we do not give forgiveness for the actions of your ministers and all of you. We are voting for a vote of confidence in our country, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] You will find us arrogant as far as the country's interests are concerned. You will find us actively against old-fashioned and divisive perceptions. The country needs a national line for a sustainable solution, with consultation within the House, united with the Greek people. Did you not say, Prime Minister, that if this agreement is not passed today, the pensioners will not be able to spend three days with the pensions you will give them? What, after all, is the polemic today? You and your Government are responsible for the command of the Greek people. Take it and rule it, at last! You know very well that the elections are a disaster for the country. Destructive are also the scenarios for a government of special purpose and a certain time. There is a national purpose, with a view to the end of the programme. You can't step on two boats anymore. Tonight we are voting on the future of the country. You have the initiative and responsibility from now on. You must make decisions on your Government and on the proper functioning of the House. The next steps should be in line with national unity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Christos Stakoras, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u57	Minister, I will start with one observation. In the legal corrections you made a few hours ago - and you continue to deposit - you are unexpectedly removing, among other things, a number of product exemptions and switch them from 13% to 23%. Only from the first state of legislation you have switched to 23% of thirteen categories, many of them in the primary sector, services for agricultural production, but also products, such as cars for the disabled. All this goes to 23%. This is not a legislative improvement, it is a sign of handshake and amateurism. And, of course, it is not justified, when, in the General Accounting Report of the State, the expected revenues, without these product transfers, were already 2.4 billion, and you had a target of 1.8 billion. How much longer? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So - I have told you and I repeat it for the second time - the New Democracy supports the agreement. The New Democracy has contributed and contributed with its standpoint to the conclusion of the Agreement. But the New Democracy does not. Clear words! Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned in my morning position, today's result of the government's negotiation is extremely unpleasant, painful and heavy. This is because, in these five months, this government has, among other things, been relying on erroneous fundamental assumptions, assumptions such as that its views will be directly and fully accepted by the partners or that there will be financial support from some other countries. These cases have been rejected by reality itself. He should have known that we are living in a period of implementation of major strategies on the part of the strong players. We have to be careful too. He ignored and indifferent to the European negotiating rules, so that he mistakenly considered that as long as time passes, the partners will retreat. It was led by dogmatism, obsessed, silky rhetoric, straight-line simplification approaches. He kept talking, through the media, about cultivating an environment of creative ambiguity. He consumed significant negotiating chapters and time on procedural and material issues, focusing on communication rather than on substance. It moved into the logic of deliberate political negotiation and underestimated the technocratic negotiation to avoid the truth of numbers, which, over the months, became increasingly grim. It has established an economic staff, without consistency and a stable strategy, with frequent changes in the negotiating group at all levels. It went on to hold a referendum, an incorrect choice, both in terms of content and in terms of timing, and as a result this theoretically top-level political process was completely devalued, the banks closed down to impose capital controls, and the European orientation of our country was inconsistent with the political conscience of European citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the result of all these acts and omissions was day after day the situation was burdened. The country was found with pressing and growing financial needs and an expanding budget gap. The country returns to the deep recession, after the small recovery in 2014 and the primary deficits, after the primary surpluses of the previous two years. The country and its citizens pay the cost of saving SYRIZA - ANEL in financial suffocation, with closed banks, without a European Support Mechanism, with no time, no allies, no credibility. And because a lot is said, it is important to study all the reports of the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, even those that have been made public today and yesterday - which I am tabling for the Minutes - and to prove the cost of this governance over these six months. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above reports, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In this context, the government, through a downward spiral of constant folding, has reached the result of partners and lenders. A painful result, more painful than what could be achieved before the referendum took place, and far more painful than what could be achieved a few months ago, at the beginning of the year. However, this choice, however painful it may be, is the first step. The first step towards the gradual restoration of normality in the financial system. The first step towards strengthening the country's credibility. The first step to avoid the destruction, unscrupulous bankruptcy and the country's exit from the hard core of unified Europe. The country took a breath. Foreign parliaments, like the French one, started by a large majority to adopt the agreement. We must move forward and conclude the agreement in the near future. The dangers are real, there are many, they are great. Government ambiguities about the possibility of completing and implementing the agreement, do not exist. Government relics and oligopoies are not justified. Government retreats are not forgiven. The government must work towards the conclusion of the agreement, which the Prime Minister himself signed as a result of the negotiation of his Government. And then, with realism, with perseverance and determination, in cooperation with partners and lenders, to seek the best roadmap out of the crisis, in terms of good co-incorporation, economic efficiency and social justice, by changing in progress false fiscal policies, strangling, through excessive taxation, the private sector of the economy, while implementing ambitious reforms, strengthening the use of public property, strengthening the framework of budgetary discipline. It is important - I stress - that structural reforms proceed quickly, immediately, along with fiscal adjustment and obviously face a number of other problems. To face problems in the functioning of the state, which is undermining the nepotism methods in the administration of public administration and in the cancellation of public administration cuts. To face problems in managing illegal immigration. To deal with problems in our national issues, where strategic alliances are disturbed. To face problems in education, where evaluation is dismantled and excellence is degraded, thus cutting the country off from what has been said in the European area. This must be done with a high sense of responsibility from all of us. The New Democracy will do, as it has always done. It will serve the endless progress of the country forward, with sectoral and structural reforms, in a national context of understanding, away from dangerous acrobatics and dead-end turfs, away from cetata, improvisations and narcissistic interviews for a few minutes of publicity. I believe that it must be shared that the criticality of the moments is such that it imposes shocks, creative compositions, hard work, a few words, which requires patriotic consciousness, wisdom and realism, which requires political and social stability, security, a sense of justice. We all have to realise, as I had already said before, that in the past, particularly in the modern competitive world, there is no easy way for the country's decent course, for sustainable development and for the well-being of all citizens. In my belief, the way we must follow - as I said at the time - is determined by the diffusion and incorporation of a modern and creative valued system, by the development of social culture and political understanding and composition to achieve collectively accepted objectives - and we have them today - since the drafting and implementation of a set-up national plan for institutional and productive reconstruction, by the preparation and implementation of modern policies, compatible with the national and European project and with fair, hard, effective and qualitative work by all of us. As it turns out, when you were in the Opposition, you didn't hear that. As long as you rule, these six months, you don't share them. I hope that this is what has become of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr Tsakalotos has just spoken, for a short time Mr Mardas and then the President of Potamios Mr Theodorakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u61	I only need thirty seconds, Mr President. Mr. Stavros is right. Many products have gone to the highest rate and this particularly affects farmers. All I can promise is - in agreement with the institutions - that there will soon be a provision for the refund of VAT, which will somehow balance things out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Dimitrios Mardas has the floor. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u63	Five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u64	Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the choice we have to make this evening is either to see the forest or to concentrate on looking for a tree, with a particularly maniac. I'll explain what I mean. I think no one in this Chamber is pleased with this agreement. This agreement, however, just expresses a defeat. Faced with this defeat, if we do not see the forest, we may have a very great disaster. And this disaster will not only have reference to our exit from the euro, but if there is a combination of the articles of the Treaty of Lisbon, in combination with the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties, it can lead us to complications, which we have not yet considered. As far as the management of this agreement that we do not like is concerned, many countries have started from signs of destruction much lower than this point or from that level that this defeat gives us. And the question is: can we manage this agreement? The answer is: Clearly we can manage it and clearly we can lead to a resetting of the economy, making a overthrow. The data we have are helping us in this direction. This data is the money that will come, the various measures that we can propose and provide additional revenue to the state, in addition to the measures we know. For example, a measure is to see with little attention the public lands that were imprisoned before 1955. Such selective measures may give rise to significant revenues in the country. There has been a job of reducing the waste in the budget, and we believe that we can save money, which will lead to a reduction in government budget expenditure. So if we develop all these powers we have, if we are stubborn, and if we eventually do the self-evident thing, and we do things that have not happened in the past, and I suppose that, in the context of a criticism or self-criticism, what has not been done before, we can also gain a credibility that we have lost. And that credibility has not been lost in this time period. The oldest will remember the condition we had in the period 1986-1987 of the black sheep. This term is still dragging today. And I can tell you that the fact that we have been dealing hard with our partners is due to the fact that this degree of credibility - the low since then - has not improved as it should be. In conclusion, I repeat what I said: and the country has started from much lower points, after national disasters and other countries have started from lower points than we are and today are miles ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamio, and then the Minister of Health Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u67	They should all be here today. We should have gone beyond the obstacles Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou set up and had a sincere conversation. It would be an act of self-awareness. This is a very important moment for the Greek Parliament and we should have had the time, but above all the courage to say why we have reached this point. Before we say what we are going to vote on, I think it is worth talking a little bit about the drachma conspiracies and the coups who have made their appearance in the last few hours. And first of all, to talk about the political conspirators, who never openly told us that they wanted the drachma, but they conspired methodically about it, and today it is revealed. They hid behind Alexis Tsipras, they claimed, they proclaimed the great chairs of power - they were taken by some of them - and now they say "we will not vote for the measures of Tsipras, but we will continue to enjoy the privileges that Alexis Tsipras gave us." Immortality as politics. And the Prime Minister must give a clear answer. It is not meant, Prime Minister, to keep those who are voting against you in your government. And next to the political conspiracies, the populist priests, some "mice" jumping from power to power, some well-known tax-gatherers and some who have their money out and wait for the drachma to come to rich. "Different gangs, the same kind," he wrote Dimitris Nollas. There is a lot of courage in this country and we must say this loudly: the great battle is not just for Europe. We fight to defeat parasites, hypocrites, liars and populists. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully respect the reaction of the Communist Party all these days. He has another model, completely different from what we have, but they're clear, they don't pretend, they pay the cost of their choices. As I also respect the SYRIZA MPs who disagree with the Prime Minister's choices and say 'we will leave, we will resign' as I respect the voice of the children who came out on the streets disappointed because they had believed the false account. But I do not respect those who enjoy all the good of the Parliamentary Republic, all the good of the free economy and breaks, when they do not measure their statements, are teaching us revolutionary lessons. But say what a revolution is today. Today's revolution is to rebuild justice, enforce all over the coup d'état, cut the tentacles of interlocutory, stop favouring the wicked, give opportunities to young people, not packages of opportunities to become immigrants, packages of creation at their place, reorder agricultural production, exploit the assets for the benefit of young farmers, landowners. There are ideas, there are international experience. We need to open the doors to young people and young people and close them to the bureaucrats, the interests and the guilds, we need to get the parties out of the public. In other words, we must do what we should have done, so that we do not get drawn from a memorial to a memorial today. You will tell me and ask many people who are listening to me: "Do you think that all we have not been able to do all these years will be done today by this Parliament, by this Prime Minister?" We don't have a choice anymore. We have to try. But, of course, in order to change the world, Mr. Tsipras, we must first believe it and first we must change. And that's your big bet. These days the Greeks have been tortured. For the first time, access to their property was cut. And I wonder about those who mock the ATM tails. It's not money, it's their work. The banks' guises must be opened again and soon. We don't want IOU, promises that Mr. Symble and some domestic supporters here in Greece want. We do not want sick people to buy, as is the case in recent weeks, consumables on the road to hospitals. And now it will also appear from this vote who really thinks about the weak, the unemployed, the uninsured, who cannot - I say again - live with promises. So the river will vote, without teats, on what Alexis Tsipras agreed in Europe. We had, of course, a better opportunity for a better deal and we kicked it, we were still under the influence of drunkenness that 'can't, Europe will retreat in front of our beauty and intelligence', but Europe did not retreat and so we reached this tough agreement. We are being charged with, blamed by the drachma supporters, for the first time we said that we would vote for the agreement that Alexis Tsipras will bring. Let's talk clearly. It is clear that the Prime Minister was delaying this agreement because he was afraid of his party. So that's what we wanted to break up. Potami knew the game of drachma conspiracy conspiracy, a conspiracy with many supporters, apparently, in conservative Europe. So we knew their plans and revealed them and remembered it. They threatened in the background: "The measures don't pass through the House, so we all go to the drachma together" and we shouted at the forefront: "The measures pass by the House, dare it." Did we benefit part-time from what we talked about? Maybe not. But that's the river. So we'll fight. We will vote and once we are saved, we will fight to improve the agreement, because we can improve this agreement. By Monday, the river will have a full proposal for the necessary changes. There is much room for manoeuvre, for example for cuts in the penthouses of power. It is unreasonable how to tax farmers. Producer groups cannot be taxed as entrepreneurs. We must strengthen the unemployed, the low-skilled and the new entrants in the labour market, who, if they continue, will never go to retirement. Take care of the changes in the Treasury. We will not, however, participate in the government. We will remain the useful opposition, the opposition to the reforms, the opposition that the place needs, to say the figs - figs and boats - to strengthen what it holds in Europe, to change Europe, to fight for the changes that the place needs, for the changes that many need. "More to most" says Potami, the movement for justice, work and education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u70	The President of the New Democracy, Evangelos Meimarakis, asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, because the Prime Minister did not intend to speak, I said that I too will not respond. But, ladies and gentlemen, the government is represented by Ministers, who are speaking in the other parties, and the Heads of State and Government have spoken well, is their right. Mr Theodorakis in the previous speech had not spoken, we had spoken for fifteen minutes. But that does not mean that our parliamentary representative will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u72	I have already heard from Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Philis, because their leaders have not spoken, they will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u73	Good. So the New Democracy won't lose one speaker. Otherwise, I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u74	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u75	Secondly, Mr President, I had asked the Government, as Mr Tsipras had the sensitivity and voted first, because the Heads of Government must set an example and much more when we are proposing something to Parliament, I believe that it will now be voting first. But I expect Mr Kammenos to vote first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Kurublis has the floor for a three-minute, if he wants to. You have asked for the floor, Minister. You want him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u77	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u78	Please, Mr. Ioannis Rabbit has the floor, a special speaker from the Golden Dawn. Quiet, please, let the speaker speak. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I am particularly surprised today, once again, at the very last time we discussed these specific issues, last Friday, the absolute silence and calmness in Parliament's Chamber. When for some bills that have come from time to time, which do not in fact concern almost anyone, there are protests, tensions, voices, chaos, famine and oppression, even in procedural matters, and there are thousands of constituencies, today for the third and most horrific memorial that we bring to the Greek people there is no reaction. Today, after many years, we have seen the full understanding of all the parties within Parliament, all the parties except the Golden Dawn. Everyone agrees with what we are doing as if it were the pretext, as if it were the absolutely right thing to do. They're bringing us the worst memorial, they're leveling the Greek people, they're finishing it from where they're already kneeling and they're all happy. One gives congratulations to the other and everyone agrees that for the sake of the Greek people everyone will vote. What is the good of the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen? Ask those who are on the gallery, ask those who are out, how many people think it's good what's going on. And if they consider it a good thing that the Prime Minister of Greece should once again explain to us, but also to the ministers who are on the table at the moment, because last Sunday's referendum took place. The Greek people decided and said at 62%, although they were terrified and closed up to banks and ATMs, that they are not afraid and that they want the Greek Government to negotiate, really to negotiate and bring something good and fair to the Greek people. Whatever that was, the Greek people would accept it and try to fight and win something. Instead, what did we see? Instead, we saw that the worst measures could have been taken. I do not think there is any doubt from anyone in this Chamber that even those who stutter up here on these benches and try to tell us that 'you know, they are well, but not exactly', they are trembling about it at that time, they do not believe it. And we heard the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos, giving us a deep confession for a few seconds, since he afflicted us that it was very good what he did, and he told us attributes: "The measures we bring do not know if it is right, but we had no choice." Says that who? The Minister of Government who went there in order to find the best possible solution for the Greek people. So what does that man say to us? What we know. 'We had no choice'. So what conversation did you have? So what deal did you come to? So what did we propose? We didn't suggest anything. We went, we threw our head and we accepted what they gave us, quite simply. And you all come here today, except in very few cases, hugged, to tell us that what you are doing is for the good of the Greek people. That's tragic. I would like to tell you another thing: those of you who are now up here on the Step of the House and you have spoken and defended this memorandum, I would like to see you again and be accountable in September or October, when these measures cannot be implemented, because we all know that they are inapplicable. When everything has been levelled in Greek society, I want to see those who have today come out and defend this memorandum, to see them in September, to see them in October, what they will say to the Greek people, who will starve and be out. You forced the Greek people to be terrified and run to the banks to get 60 euros, which became 50 euros, which is now nothing, because the ATMs are closing down. You forced the Greek taxpayer, the Greek retired person running to get 120 euros every 15 days that you give him, and you call that a success. Well, not only is it not a success, it's unhappiness, but it's an unhappiness without an honor, and the Greek has that word in his vocabulary. There's the honor. He'd endure getting 60, 50, 40 euros if he knew what he's doing has an impact, that what he's doing will lead to something. You all know and we know very well that it doesn't lead anywhere. You know that. And here I should like to say that - unfortunately, perhaps for the Greek people, because for the Golden Dawn, for us all is joy, but on the other hand, it is unhappiness - the referendum that the Greek Government has done - and so it should be normal - as a big step to speak the Greek people and to decide, in the end, only the Golden Dawn supported it, because only the Golden Dawn came out from the beginning and said that a referendum must be held. When the referendum took place and everyone ran, the SYRIZA and ANEL conflict, and they ran and said "it's not true, it has never happened", again only Golden Dawn had the courage and defended it and said that there is a 62% of the Greek people that you are selling it. You do not, of course, sell 62% of the Greek people, you sell all the Greek people, you sell everything, it is enough to do what you want. Your democracy is what you want. You have set a framework in which you agree on yourself, you disagree, and anyone who dares to tell you something else is bad, they're in scenarios, they're in conspiracy, they're everything. Some people will talk to you here, who are neither the drachma conspiracies nor any lobby. We're all the Golden Dawn MPs. When you took us to jail, you searched all our bank accounts. You saw who the Members of the Golden Dawn are. You saw. We are the ones representing the ordinary Greek citizen. That's who we are. We are a bunch of people who have come in here, who have fought and are not afraid to say that, if Greece has to go back to national currency - which is not our proposal, so as not to be misunderstood - we should do so. We are the first to suffer the consequences of these things. But we said that we love our country, we respect our fellow humans, and above all we want to look proud in the eyes of anyone. Which one of you can do this here today? Which one of you, after these measures you take, can you go to your constituencies, go to the places you meet and see those with whom you speak and treat them in the face and say 'yes, I did what I thought was right'? You don't think that's the right thing to do. You consider it an emergency measure, like the last blockade you can make. None of you think it's right. The Prime Minister went over there. I do not know whether it has been negotiated properly or not, but perhaps it has been negotiated, but we have seen that unfortunately the result is tragic. And we see throughout this time the perfect reversal of the terms with regard to the big-timers, with regard to the intertwined media, which until six, seven, eight days ago smuggled and accused the Prime Minister and Government of SYRIZA because it dares and gives the word to the Greek people. Because that was the stake he played, that the Greek people shouldn't have spoken. But when Tsipras, the Prime Minister, went and wrote in his old shoes 62% of the Greek people, then the intertwined media say the best words about him and his government. They say "bravo, hail, fight" and all that. You understand very well, I think, where we're here. And the accident, too, is that habit is a very bad thing. And, unfortunately, the Greek people have been accustomed to him, at least in the last five years, not even complaining. It is incomprehensible that these measures should be passed by the Greek Parliament and there should be no voice of reaction outside or even those, some graphic caricatures that appear outside, only do it for the eyes of the world. It is tragic that you have brought the Greek people into this process and begging and begging the head and saying "I wish to take 50 euros, at least, give me 50 euros". But you all know very well and we know that, unfortunately, this 50 euros will not be given in September and October. I'm afraid so. It's not a pleasure to say it. And then we see who they will be here, in this Parliament, who will put their breasts back on and try to find solutions for the Greek people. I'll say something else, though. Unfortunately, the government of SYRIZA gave an alibi to those who have beaten us forty-five years, to the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, to those predators who have broken up everything. And they come now and they shake the finger these people tell us how our country arrived at this point and why we arrived - it says - here. But how did we get here? Because they ruled forty - five years and leveled everything. And SYRIZA is sitting with a low head right now, because apparently the deal is to vote in favour of the measures of the New Democracy and of PASOK, so everyone can be covered. And we don't hear a word about the scandals that have been done, about the thieves, about the crooks and the poachers who have broken our country over these years. And yet, we are not listening to any of the SYRIZA ministers right now, nor the Prime Minister, dare to say that he will find out who the thieves are, that he will turn the money back and that they will be in jail. Golden Dawn promises that all of this, if the power is given to her, she will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible that the aim should have been achieved by 24.00 in the roll-call vote, at the request of the Communist Party and Golden Dawn Parliamentary Groups. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society and especially the Greek middle class are paying very dearly the cost of SYRIZA's political adulthood. For months now, the Step forward has been warning you, Prime Ministers, that when your fantasy world is confronted with reality, reality always prevails. This has unfortunately also been confirmed in practice. Every month that passed, you were negotiating with the components, the cost of the account was growing. Every week he passes, he also raises the cost of the account. Every day that passes, Mr. Ministers, the cost rises. Some small and medium-sized business, which is struggling to stay alive, closes. Some tourist cancellations that want to visit our country are done. This vicious circle has to stop now. In order to prove what I am saying and not to call on the Government to select the reports of the International Monetary Fund, I would like, Minister, that Mr Tsakalots is not here, to tell you what the last revision of the International Monetary Fund report is saying. The rescue package account, the third left memorial, has increased by 25 billion euros over the last two weeks. And it increased by EUR 25 billion precisely because it needs to be added to the account now and the cost of recapitalisation of the banks. And I am tabling the relevant study of the fund in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The delusion that the Prime Minister spoke about to us cost and cost the country dearly. I recognize to the Prime Minister that, even at the last minute, in the light of the suffocating reality and the pressure he has undeniably accepted, he has done the right thing, but do not expect us to say good, we must tell you that you must be proud to be prevented or attempted to prevent a disaster which you yourself have caused. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the third programme, the third memorandum, for the first Memorandum on the Left. And we are certainly discussing a time-consuming situation where Grexit's risk has not yet passed. What the country experienced, the traumatic experience experienced by the Prime Minister himself at the summit, was nothing but a simulation of a Grexit. We must be absolutely honest and honest. The country needs a third programme and it needs the interim agreement as soon as possible, so that the country is assured, banks can open up an hour ago and that the economic normality, which your own - unfortunately - caused incompetence, is finally restored. And the truth is one - we, too, threatened by this Step - not to relive Sisyphus' myth. Unfortunately, like Sisyphus, we will have to push once again as a Greek society this time the Left Monument at the top of the mountain. And we have three years to do it. And we should all agree here together on how to achieve this objective and whether we really believe in this objective. There's no doubt about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement is extremely painful. Our rapporteur has said so too. I do not need to analyse it in detail. It has a series of real measures. You have chosen as a political option to fill the budget gap with an increase in taxes. We told you this wasn't the only option. There were other options and other options still exist today. You could choose equivalent financial measures. And I am tabling a relevant article, with specific proposals of EUR 2 billion, on how you could still save resources today, so that you do not increase taxation, for example, for farmers, which you are planning to do next week. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why should the PPC's insurance fund with 600 million and the average pension of PPC's pensioners be EUR 24,000 even today? Here, then, we must agree on the socially fair way in which this great cost is shared by the Greek society as a whole. But, Mr President-in-Office, there is one more thing to say. In order for this agreement to succeed, it is not enough to apply certain measures selectively. The equivalent measures to compensate for the actual impact of the increase in tax rates are structural changes. These structural changes for which the New Democracy has fought. We have no problem, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, saying that, yes, we believe in privatisation, we believe in the liberalisation of the product market and the labour market. We believe, and I personally have the right to say that, ladies and gentlemen, in the dismantling of the state, because I have fought from the position of Minister for Administrative Reform to collide with ruffles and with arrangements made by our party and I have had the courage to say so. And I demanded the Left, which is not charged with such practices, to be able to stand up to the circumstances and speak frankly about demilitarisation of public administration. But unfortunately, you gave backward samples of writing. And that brings us to the heart of the problem, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister, in his interview with ERT yesterday, said openly that he does not believe in this programme. I repeat: it does not believe in this programme. I would remind him that in the joint communiqué which he signed, in the first two series, there are two key words: 'confidence' and 'ownership', the ownership of reforms, ladies and gentlemen. This programme is never going to come out and the country will be legally submerged in the same vicious circle of failed programmes if the structural reforms we have to agree on together are not supported. And you know, Ministers, structural reforms are not just 'I come to the House and vote for a law', but they need systematic support and, above all, they need political courage and courage to go out and support them. It seems to me that the Prime Minister is not here today. Other parliaments have already voted. The French parliament has already voted for the support in Greece, and we must say a great deal of thanks to France and the French President for the great fight he has given to those who wanted to get Greece out of the euro. I haven't even heard that from the Prime Minister. I wanted him here today to say that. Do you know what I would like from the Prime Minister today? I would like the Prime Minister really to talk about a new beginning, about how we can close this vicious circle of populism over the last five years, its attack on opposing from the security of the opposition to measures that you know are right. And I would like to take this opportunity to say a great deal of thanks to the Members of the New Democracy who are currently taking over a burden which does not account for them. They will vote for measures from a national conscience, from a European conscience, not from a party discipline, because we know that this is our duty. A number of fellow Members will be found in their constituencies to have a SYRIZA colleague who says 'I did not vote for these measures'. Because that is a convenient policy to say. We will not do this as a New Democracy. We shall stand up to the circumstances and vote today coordinates and vote on 23, Minister. Then we'll see what we'll do. Because one thing must be clear in this Chamber: there are no majority voting in Parliament. You won't expect people to vote painfully for memorial measures and then seek other majorities to vote for the monstrous events that Mr Baltas wants to do in education. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Memorandums of foreign collision will not be held in this Chamber. So let the Prime Minister come to speak frankly to the Greek people, explain what it is he wants to do and not what he does not want to do. So that we can finally - and I close with that, Mr President - borrow all of us together from the Churchill saying that what is going to happen today is not the end, it is not even the beginning of the end, but perhaps it is the end of the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The President of the Council, Mr Voutsi, asked for the floor for a short time. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u83	I feel the need, Mr President, to stress that it is clear that this particular debate, the particular debate that we are having, must not be used as a swimming pool in Siloam for the extremely painful political problems that have been experienced and which have been used in recent years towards the Greek people. Everyone has the right to defend his work, collective, extradition, or staff, from the ministerial court or from where he went. The honourable Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy has now done the same. But I want to stress - and I can't do it - that your state there, Mr. Mitsotakis, always in good cooperation with those who had the public administration from the then troika, was characterized by redundancies, disposables, by choices outside the Ragossi law for the heads...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u84	Is that what you found to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u85	I'm very specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u86	Let go of that now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u87	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Cryazides, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u89	What do you want to do now? What is this, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u90	Please don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u91	From organograms made for all ministries which have nothing to do with the reconstruction and reform of public administration, there is no trace of reform work left in the public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u92	Oh, you're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u93	I want to be very clear, because it is not on the basis of this debate that dramatic policies that have been pursued towards the Greek people are being purified and expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u95	Just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u96	Minister, I am extremely proud of the work I have done at the Ministry of Administrative Reform. I am proud to have proceeded for the first time in a rationalisation of structures, and we have really restricted the positions of responsibility. I am extremely proud of attempting to introduce real evaluation concepts. I am proud that we have passed a draft law for the selection of directors, which you have not implemented. I'm proud we tried and tracked down a lot of prostitutes with fake excuses, which your deputy now gets back. Well, let's be a little careful when we split the cost of trying. I delivered you a draft law for the evaluation of civil servants. There was not even a reform initiative from your Ministry and your Deputy Minister. The only thing that you were interested in and all that you still care about is the appointment of party leaders at all positions of responsibility. Therefore, because your work is well known, but our work is well known, let us leave it and avoid comparisons. And, if you need to say something, to explain why the Prime Minister is not here today, to talk about the major national risk of saving the country, instead of having to change such dialogues on issues that are not of interest to the Greek people today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you. Mr Georgios Stathakis has the floor for a short time. Next, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Friends. The aim is to make the roll-call vote at 24 a.m. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, it must be clear to all of us that these are moments of responsibility, they are not moments of sterile confrontation. This is the time when we must all turn directly and without any rotation towards the dilemma faced by Greece, the dilemma which has not emerged unilaterally either from the wishes of the Greek Government or from the wishes of one or more European countries. It is a test, the result of a test, in which many different interests have conflicted with the way in which Europe itself operates and can function. The government itself has tried and tried to find solutions to an issue which has existed and has not been created since the last five months. And that must be quite clear. The government has received the end, the incomplete second programme, which itself had been frozen - for a number of reasons, which is not the moment to analyse - and in front of it had an unsustainable system of economic survival of the country for 2015-2018. Let me remind you that the medium-term programme before us provided for the creation of surpluses of 3.5% in 2015 and 4.5% in 2016, 2017 and 2018, together with some very high yields of privatisation. These together would be faced with a problem of serving 47 billion from 2015 to 2018, 20 billion in the International Monetary Fund and 27 in the European Bank, a debt unsustainable. That was the reality received by the government. The government put three things in the negotiation from the beginning to the end. Firstly, restructuring the debt of 2015-2018, to be more accurate in 2015-2022. What he said is very simple: replacement, payment of short-term debt with long-term debt. A new 30 - year - old borrowing or anything else, which would replace misappropriations, short - term borrowing with long -term. That would make the immediate problem - I am not talking about long-term - sustainable. This agreement has achieved this objective. The second issue. The reduction of the external budgetary surpluses which the country was asked to produce. That has also been achieved. Already in March, April, the surpluses of 3.5% and 4.5% had reached an agreement, which, one, two, three, three, 3.5% for the next four years, which requires budgetary adjustments much more milder - I repeat - than in the past. Thirdly, pending the old situation, there was a banking sector, which was precarious and with a number of problems, as it had not been managed by dozens of its problems, red loans and much more. This agreement - and this is also included in the agreed forms, before we end up with the final version - has a framework for serious restructuring of the banking sector, with obviously some recapitalisation money. In conclusion, this agreement ensures, at least, that the banking system is fully stable throughout the medium term - I repeat - and this is the third important positive element of this agreement. So the idea that these three authorities did not work, worked, and the agreement in all other things, structural changes, etc. It is a negative agreement directly and without any rotation. As far as ideological debate is concerned, these measures will not give rise to any development issues. Some believe that they will create, apparently some who share them. The question remains. It is a programme that is difficult, but which has positive elements. This is the given basis and it makes it sustainable in relation to the macroeconomic framework within which it will move. It's a difficult deal. From there on, the options are data. Getting out of reality is the worst counselor right now. The Prime Minister and the Government responsibly signed an agreement, which creates the best conditions for the country's rescue under the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Harris Theocharis, special speaker of the river, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA has come to an end to a strategic deadlock. He's a young man who promised us he could fly. He said to the Greeks "Get up on my back and I'll take you away". It had 20 square meters of space and a meter above the ground. Go this way, go that way, watch the cliff, but she wouldn't decide to jump. And what's he doing? There's another rock coming up. Now it has ten square meters of space and it's five meters above the ground. But he still doesn't decide to jump. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] With the referendum, the summit reached an end. It's at the highest point. She can't make either right or left or forward or back. There's only one thing left over from here: jump.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u101	There's a river ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u102	Please, be quiet, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u103	This is where we got SYRIZA's dead ends. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, faced a coup d'état. Faced with hostility, suspicion, disfellowshipment, revulsion of partners. He's been placed almost disconscious. The Prime Minister stayed awake with the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, trying to achieve the best for the country. Did he get it? Given the fact that over the past six months, given the strategy of defeating the previous negotiating logic, given the mistake of referendum, yes, it has achieved the best. You're telling us that five months of what was to blame for the past five years? But the same applies to the finance ministers. What can Mr. Tsakalotou's six days save in the six months of Mr. Varoufakis? [[Applause from the river wing]] The Prime Minister successfully dealt with the foreign coup. And he came back here and what did he find? The domestic coups. At least Mr. Shoeble gives something about the humanitarian crisis. The left platform does not have any money for this either, just fantasies of "dou" at the Mint and arrests of Giannis Stournaras. But like all coups, they're man-made, too. They say 'no' to Mr Tsipras, but 'yes' to his government. If they dare shoot Mr. Tsipras, see what they have in society and who they can convince without Mr. Tsipras. They say "no" to the statements of the Greeks, with some of them depositing abroad, but "yes" to the tails, "yes" to the degrading demands of cancer patients to send money abroad to perform surgery. If they dare sit in the tails outside, not the ATM of the House. They say 'no' to the support of the country, but 'yes' to the special partners - yesterday we were hired - and to the cars given by the institutions. If they dare, let them resign along with their 'no', as Mrs Valvain has done. They say "no" to the unemployed looking for a job. They say 'no' to the retired person who's looking for drugs and doesn't find it. They say 'no' to the small businessman, who doesn't come out and close his business. They say "no" to the child, who dreams of advanceing in his place. They say 'no' to the country's recovery. They only say 'yes' to their childhood illusions. They say yes to their authoritarianism. They say yes to their privileges. They have debts in the country and in history, and they refuse to pay for it. Is that also burdensome and disgraceful, the debt in the country? Finally, since they will say 'no' in the country, they must also see the 'no' of the people and go where it is worth: in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to speak on an incidental matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I would also like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Nicolopole, I'll give you the floor later. Let me finish with the speakers. Mr. Nicholas, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has been written. One will speak. Do you want to talk or Mr. Kammenos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u108	Good. There's Mrs. Christophilopoulou here. I have two other speakers and Mr Venizelos has asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure. The target for roll-call votes remains possible at 24.00 hours. The teams are all here. There's no need to read the names. I recognize everyone. Please, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult evening for all of us. And when I say 'for all of us', I mean for the Greek people, because he is faced with a peculiarity of history. Our small country, Greece, was forced to come forward. And it is not the first time that "Cats of the I - Nicholas" - to remember the Seferis - are practicing, but they continued to fight. The small country, Greece, has come forward to defend fundamental rights of modern man: democracy, solidarity, a Europe that is completely different from the Europe of banks, neoliberalism and coups. We're not hiding. We made a tough negotiation with mistakes, but honest. For the first time, our country has negotiated with honesty. For the first time, she said that she was claiming her pride and result from the negotiations. To accept that in the face of a greater correlation of power, which could not only be changed because we had the political will - the political will is necessary, but not capable of revising a greater association of power - we have had to proceed to a very tough and painful compromise on the issues that we have been discussing so long. But there is the message of the European, which remains active. For the first time it has been put at European level by a small country - and this breach has not been closed - the issue of Europe. This Europe is not going to go ahead. It will be dissolved if it is not founded on the values of democracy and social solidarity. This message has been sent to Europe and we are proud that it is being discussed everywhere, anywhere else, but not in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u110	A little quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen, the speaker is speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u111	Another peculiarity of Greek, which refers to other issues of the 'tribe', in a division, in an attempt to manage problems, not through a national perspective, but through a micro-party confrontation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt that we have been at the forefront of the international and domestic situation of neoliberalism and the memoranda. We know that we have managed to raise issues relating to the whole of Europe and the debt on a pan-European scale. Just yesterday there was a new report by the International Monetary Fund, which talks about a debt of 200% of GDP over the next two years for our country, calling for a 30-year grace period of debt service, which is not expected to be below 170% of GDP in 2022, compared with 140%, and which has been budgeted until some time ago. These issues remain as a testament for discussion, for struggle, for claiming and the outcome of this claim is about forming the internal political relations, about whether the coup that started in Brussels the day before will be completed, unwittingly, here in the House this evening. Because this coup in Brussels had a goal: to punish Greece, punishing its government, to throw the government away, so that it could send a message to all of Europe that the "for the first time left" to the government will be the last and soon. Because what is at stake here today is more than the interests of the Greek people. Today, what is at stake is the interests and democratic choice of the peoples of Europe and whether the Europe's directorate will close its accounts with democracy, sending out a message that citizens and people are forbidden to make choices outside the memorandum path, outside the one-way neoliberalism and totalitarianism of the uniform course of humanity. It is clear that many of us who have been breast-feeded and exist in the left-wing movement and have not been known through our involvement in public office with slain sins, many of us, all of us, have been faced with what Vebber says: the 'ethical of the mind' and its 'ethical responsibility'. His morality has marked the history of many heresy in the field of Christianity. It was an easy answer to the sects. They spoke to God and considered that any decision they made on the basis of their mind and conviction will be judged by God. But we belong to a tradition of Enlightenment. We believe that man can take his problems into his hands. Its moral responsibility, therefore, towards our problems, to the victims of a social disaster of neoliberalism in our country, to the poor, to the unemployed, to the young, who trusted me in fighting the referendum with 'no', not only by romance, but also by consciousness of the real interests of their generation. Ethics of responsibility towards the citizens, who feel badly affected every day by their right to information. Ethics of responsibility towards democracy. Because SYRIZA throughout Europe, and especially Greece, is a prototype experiment, a democratic blockade towards the far right that is being held. We have also seen them here, and here we have seen the subjugated criminals raise their heads to steal the agony, so that they can prove themselves smugglers of the desperation and difficult situation of popular masses. The moral responsibility for the clearance, in order to give justice to the major scandals, which may have led the old-fashioned regime to waive, but remain open to the conscience of the Greek people, who seeks the elementary restoration, the elementary justice for what is constantly called for. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not unwisely finish the coup that started in Brussels yesterday. The aim of the coup was for the Left Government to fall as a message throughout Europe, as a message of disappointment for the rest of Europe. Of course, everyone starts from different starting points, but the result counts at this particular moment. Colleagues and colleagues, without a government SYRIZA the future of the poor, the absentees, the wronged in our country will be harder, much harder than the Memorandum that we had to bring here. Without government, SYRIZA it is certain that there will be, among other things, a strong appearance of the phenomenon of anti-politicalism, of this phenomenon that everyone considers to be the same, of this phenomenon that is the'snake egg'. That's where Nazism and Across Right are incubating. We need to lift up...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u112	Stay with Shoeble and make a pity! Leave the nationalists alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u113	Please, finish, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u114	She needs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u115	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u116	Still, you can't impose...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u117	You're very welcome. Mr. Friend, avoid...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u118	Without a government of SYRIZA - and this is the act that is being played here tonight - it means that he will be passed by Shoeble. It will pass on to the most aggressive circles in Europe, to the conglomerates of the far right-wing and nazis in our country, to the people of old-fashioned communism, that there is no hope in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u119	Dreamy-dollar!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u120	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u121	Laugh, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u122	There is hope and this is the SYRIZA government, the people and the popular movement!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u123	Shame on you! You're a common hybrid!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u124	Say hello to Shoeble!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u125	Gentlemen, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u126	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Pappa, sit down. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u128	But I'm asking for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u129	No, Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u130	I'm a parliamentary representative. I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u131	I would be very grateful if we could finish with the speakers. Mr. Dimitris Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u132	Wait a minute, Mr. President,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u133	You'll all be heard. You're very welcome. Come to Vima, Mr. Dimitris Kammene. Mr Philadelphia and others, avoid now at the end references and phrases.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u134	Yeah, but you don't give me the floor. I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u135	He swears our party!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u136	I'm wrong for you. You've got the feeling. Have a seat, let's talk about it. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has facilitated and resigned. It is Mr Kammenos and Mrs Christophilopoulou on two formal procedural issues. Please, Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time. We must prevent the process and be legitimate, because I hear that the foreign parliaments too are voting at the same time. Two political points I want to make quickly. It is a difficult day, a flag for everyone at a personal and national level. The Independent Greeks are not holding a French opposition, we are not joking about the situation. It's too serious. Fortunately, we found the money so we wouldn't go bankrupt on Monday in the ECB and central banks' bonds, plus 500 million, plus 100 yesterday in Samourai Bonds, plus 100 more that's next Tuesday in yen. It doesn't matter the detail. But it's important that we found the money and we don't go bankrupt. The Independent Greeks did not exploit the situation, we did not blackmail. We supported a Prime Minister with whom we, as with fellow Members, have many ideological differences, but we joined together to save our country, because it is the homeland of all of us and our children.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u138	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u139	I want to make two creative remarks first of all for farmers. We've heard a lot. I won't get into the details. I respect the battle that the Minister has fought. I respect his reply, his comment, that he will make good. Our proposal is to the whole House, but also to us as a coexistence to build teams of technocrats and experts in the rural economy. I have opinions and opinions on many issues. A simple matter can be raised, a little bit of a look at the numbers. Imports of food to Greece are EUR 6 billion and the print on jobs is four hundred thousand. Shall we say it again? No, it's been recorded. Four thousand jobs would be extra if we did not introduce EUR 6 billion. It is up to us not to keep doing this, to change strategy. I will also make a proposal, which may not like many: it could, for example, be - according to the Juncker package, which is welcome to our homeland, but we should be creative, productive and documented - fifty - sixty thousand civil servants leaving with molecules, returning to primary production, subsidising, taking money from the Juncker package, creating and reaching the level of EUR 4.5 billion or 6 billion from internal production, so that we do not import goods, so as to create the fifty - sixty thousand civil servants who leave with public privileges to go to primary production and save jobs and a lot of import exchange costs. We heard about a double currency. I have heard with great regret, but it is not a day of division, that colleagues or colleagues - I have not cross-checked it - have envied the programme that Mr Shoeble, in other words Grexit, proposed to us with humanitarian aid. Mercy itself! I would like to say here that technically, when we talk about a double currency, we need to see what double currency is. An analysis says it is a currency in Greece and a currency outside Greece, the euro. I mean, paying your euro debts and having an internal currency for the whole economy. The other double currency, for which another falsification is taking place, because people do not know and anyone who wants to have a conversation is making it and throwing it into the air, is IOUs, i.e. a parallel currency within Greece. There is a technical risk here, which I shall simply mention. When part, for example, of payroll goes to paper, that is to say, promiseful, we should be careful what Mr Siomple says: Part of the financial needs to be covered by IOUs. How? From the IOU that I give to the supermarket? Oh, no. Of the remaining amount in the payroll, sight or savings account, it will be blocked and will pay liabilities. You, instead of taking your money to take it, you'll give it to IOU. So he wants a lot of attention. I shall refer to the Government of New Democracy and I shall highlight a mistake, not political, but technocratic. I would remind you that Mr Thompsen spoke of a fund of 50 billion. I would also remind you that the PASOK and New Democracy conflict - and I speak technically and not politically and we will see how the mistake was made - made the so-called “sale and please back” in public property. And Europe is coming today with our own government to create a fund to create revenue-sharing revenues or assets, which are real estates of the Greek public, whether they have incomes or do not. This has been happening for centuries abroad, and we can do it here as well. It was unreasonable that this should be done in Greece, that I should give the property - which is across from my friend Terrence - for twenty-five years with a guaranteed contract, that the investor should take the contract to the bank, get a loan, buy it to me and guarantee it for twenty-five years. That was a practice that was done, but now it can be done differently. Because if we want to yell here and call on investors to go home one day, for example Arabs, who cannot invest in profitable businesses with coupons and interest, their own bonds, the "Sukuk" as they are said, can get the properties of Greece, which have a return for them from the rent. How will the Arab come here? They need technical knowledge and strategy. We don't have to sell our real estate, but have smart financial ways to manage them. I close by saying that America has played a very important role in negotiating. Her Minister of Finance is here, helping and pushing. The International Monetary Fund has helped as much as we hate it in the part of debt sustainability - I gave you its analysis at noon. I have to say as a result of my personal visit to St Petersburg that Greece is currently one of the most important players in commercial geostrategic, which unites the Pacific with the Atlantic Ocean. It is the bridge of the new trade road of the silk and Greece must move accordingly. This is not a partisan matter, it is a national issue. They cannot use Turkey and Jordan or other countries, such as Syria, that cut them in their northern part of Kurdistan, so that the Chinese and us can take a look at the trains. Our role is very important. The investments that will be made in Greece, if we are smart and we have evidence and a strong base group to study and propose, together with the Americans, who have given a great deal of help and we are with them, and they must help this effort, because they are already blocking the BRICKS and the Development Bank, now they are supporting it. So we're here to help. I close by saying where the money we borrowed is going and where we asked for the ESS. We should all know. Anyone who wants to keep notes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u141	We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u142	With regard to 82 billion - I shall end at once, Mr President - 50 billion goes to interest and debt, 25 billion to banks. We must note here that this is a debt-sensitive of 50 billion three-year-olds. I will leave this paper to the Secretariat only from the report, for anyone who wants to see where the money we get is going. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course we support the suggestion and the bill. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u143	Give us a copy of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u146	Would you like to speak, Mr. President? For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u147	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u148	Mr Kammenos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, I would like to address the Members of the House and say just a few words. If this government falls today, there will be no hope either for Greece or for Europe. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] It is quite clear that the circles of the new order, the circles of Germany, led by Mr. Shoeble, want Greece to be the example of the dominance of Germany, the bankers and the new order. They want tomorrow morning, with the vote of the Congressarians, to reach the point where the banks are closed, to lead eleven million Greeks to unemployment. They want us to come to the point of confiscation of Greek citizens' statements and to demonstrate clearly that they control the game.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u150	Gentlemen, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u151	This agreement is the product of a blackmail, a coup d'état. This agreement is a conspiracy. However, if this agreement is not ratified today by the majority of Members of the Greek Parliament, but by the Members of the Greek Parliament, then there will never be hope for Greece nor for Europe. I call on all my fellow Members to understand that we are currently under a huge blackmail. We are all called upon to vote against our conscience, but we are all called upon to prove that there are peoples who may be recognizing, but are not delivered. That's the point of voting this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u152	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak under Rule 67(6) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u154	Please, be quiet. Be less demanding, Mr. Venizelo. Mrs Christophilopoulou, do you accept in the Rules of Procedure that Mr Venizelos should be proposed? Do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u155	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u156	It's the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Venizelo, if you please, another look!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u158	Not to me like that, Mr. Metropoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u159	The Rules of Procedure do not say that you are moving!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u160	We know each other here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u161	The Rules of Procedure say that I have to give you the floor, but not that you are moving!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u162	'Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers within
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u163	I asked the Member of your party. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u164	Ask for the text of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u165	I give you the floor for a second to develop the incidental issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. I invoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u167	Now you're... Be careful, please, your look!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u168	And yours, which is mixed usually. Take note, when we discuss each other, that we observe the Rules of Procedure and Ethics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u169	Are you insisting that I have to propose you because of this as a constitutionalist?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u170	According to Article 67(6)...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u171	But that's what I read. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u172	...examination of the incidents takes precedence over the debate on the main issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u173	The debate on the main issue has been closed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u174	I would therefore like to put the following three points to the Rules of Procedure. Firstly, I refer to Rule 85(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 85(3), each bill submitted shall be accompanied by a explanatory statement corresponding to the draft law proposed. As the House knows, Article 1 of the original draft legislation provided for approval of the agreement reached at the Eurozone Summit on 12 July. But at the initiative of the Minister of Finance, this article was withdrawn and became part of the explanatory statement. According to the agreement signed by Mr Tsipras, Parliament must adopt the text of the agreement. So there is a very serious problem to clarify now what is the point of including the summit communiqué in the explanatory statement and how the vote to be taken as a vote at the start of the bill is the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u175	Shoeble... (Didn't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u176	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u177	It is very important that the House should know what it is voting on, that each Member should know the meaning of the vote, as he himself points out, but also the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Because today - July 15, the signatory day - is historic, because the mythology of the antimony concept has collapsed, that there was supposedly another policy. The government tells us: "The dilemma is tragic: either the specific tough memorandum or Grexit, uncomplicated bankruptcy - destruction". But that's what we were talking about, but we became the object of slandering, mocking and attacking. So if what the House says today - and it will say in its vote - is that in the dilemma 'or a memorandum or exit from the euro, incomprehensible bankruptcy - destruction' the answer is 'yes in the memorandum', then it has a meaning for the future, but it also has a meaning for the present and the past. This is where the country's political and public life is being reassigned. Here we go through mythology, in fact, from slander to truth. This has to be cleared up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u178	Please, let it be completed. Quiet! Go on, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u179	Second point, Article 85(7). It says Article 85(7) that the bills are signed by the co-legislative ministers, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u180	Wait a minute, Mr. Venizelo. Gentlemen, please calm down! All Greece is looking at us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u181	In accordance with Article 85(7), the bills must be signed by all the appropriate ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u182	You're very welcome. The moments are critical. All our compatriots are looking at us! Come on, Mr. Venizelo, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u183	These Ministers have the responsibility of the draft law submitted, but also of the implementation of the law adopted by the House of Law issued and published by the President of the Republic giving an order for execution. We need to know from the Prime Minister whether his Government and the ministers concerned take responsibility for the bill, but also for the execution of what will be contained in the law adopted by the House. We cannot have a government with two majorities: a majority of antimony about 'good' and 'innocent' bills and a majority of national responsibility for 'hard' bills. Rule 85(7) of the Rules of Procedure is infringed. And as a last point - and I close - I would say that Rule 84 of the Rules of Procedure, in full connection with Rule 65 of the Constitution for the free and democratic functioning of the Parliament and with Article 1 on popular sovereignty as the basis of the constitution, provides that the legislative initiative is carried out by the House, of course, but above all by the Government, freely and democratically. Here I hear that the deal and the bill are a product of coup, blackmail. So Article 65 of the Constitution, Article 1 or Rule 85 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure have been infringed? If there is a violation, which is obvious and provocative, it is that the will of the people of the January elections is violated and the blackmailed will of the people in the referendum anyway, because 'no' has been turned into a humiliating 'yes' because the people have been misled twice and much more. So I want to know what the vote means in relation to the deal. Does the House adopt it? Secondly, is there a government ready to implement what we are voting on? Third, what's the theory of coup? Do we have a government undergoing extortion here? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] It is a government that has misled the people and is now changing political platform in cold blood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u184	Quiet, please, gentlemen. For my style and my tone, I apologise to both you and all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Pappas has the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u187	But I would like an answer from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u188	Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor on staff for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would personally like to express myself and the entire Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, because a moment ago the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Philis, said in particular: 'Golden Dawn criminals', without interrupting it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u190	I had a little interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u191	You had a little interruption. Yeah, yeah, I get it. But you are more sensitive, Mr President. Mr President, it should be erased from the Minutes, as should Mr Skourletis' morning. Let us keep here, in this House where the entire Greek people see us, a level which we have not humiliated, but you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u192	Quiet, gentlemen! Continue and complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, I have to reply on personal grounds to Mr Phile. Mr Philly, you refer this to the parliamentary group, to Koumoundourou, to SYRIZA where you are now a minority. We are stable in our views and whether we are criminals or not will be judged by Greek justice and not by you. You're not a prosecutor, Mr. Philly. As for the other thing you said about snakes, snakes and eggbirds, your name refers to you as being a snake in the crucifix of the people who, unfortunately, crucifixed you to crucifix him today. It's disgraceful and shameful of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u194	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you will answer Mr Venizelos, and then you will have the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I only speak for two minutes. The Minister, like the SYRIZA rapporteur, has mentioned these issues very clearly and you know that very well. Because, in fact, you want to say this more schematically, it is clear that an agreement is made, a contract, under the pressure of events, with all the features that have been mentioned in the Greek and international press, but also in the political forces. There is a common consciousness about the pressure that you have put on this character. This does not mean that the agreement which comes here to be voted on is the result of a situation which makes it illegal and outside the discussion process. It is also clear that the government guarantees the overall programme which will develop - and aspects and touches have been heard by the ministers as a whole for our society over the next four years, with a horizon of four years - as the Prime Minister said in his speech yesterday, but also the day before - that, as soon as he left the summit, part of this programme, with the antibodies, will be social policies which will actually enable those who will have a lesser impact on this programme and that we will develop them in the most discriminatory way in the interests of the classes that are affected and judged on it when we are judged as government. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Finally, Mr President, I should like to say this because you have started from this, in the same direction and with Mr Mitsotakis who spoke earlier, who would like, through this debate, to have a historic swimming pool of Siloam for some things. Let me tell you - because you spoke and were one of the protagonists of the memorials that came here and were being voted, you negotiated, you had your own route, and you thought that you had your own successes with the famous PSI - that I do not remember at all - because we were here, present and present - to have been made by our country a stop to payments to the International Monetary Fund, at least three kinds, points and funds which are being mitigated, capital control, all this whole situation, which has shaped a very hard confrontation and conflict. If you think that the quality of this agreement - as it is called, 'Agreement', 'Memorandum', anything - is a result and is historically balanced programming, politically and socially and in the consciousness of the Greek people with what you have done in five years' time, you are very laughed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Venizelos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u198	I just wanted to tell the Minister for the Interior for a minute this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u199	This thing can't be done! We're not going to finish. Did he personally feel him? Why would he answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u200	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u201	Yes, sir! Never before, while the country had the opportunity on January 25, on February 20 to conclude a very small-cost agreement and to enter another regime, such as the preventive credit line, was not found with the back sticking to the wall, to pay a huge account, to enter a new three-year memorandum only for inner-party connections to SYRIZA, SYRIZA-ANEL relations, only because Mr. Tsipras did not tell the Greek people the truth...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, that's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u203	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u204	...he was unable to clarify his political identity in the past few months, and now we see the internal conflict that the country, the economy, the foreign policy, is paying at tragicly high costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u205	It's over. It's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u206	It is not fatal and inevitable what this House is voting on today. We pay the consequences of your own mistakes, false and illusional, and you're accountable for it. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You don't have a sense of what you're doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u208	Good. Personal matters are closed. Now we're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u209	Mrs. Eve Christophilopoulou has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, that makes sense...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u211	Be quiet, gentlemen. We're done slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u212	The moments are critical. The spirits of all are prosperous. The next 24 hours will mark whether the country will move towards a 'bridge' programme that stabilises it in Europe or whether the country will remain 'in the air' as it is at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, when we read our history or remember our youths at these critical times that the place has gone through, we remember Prime Ministers at the critical moments to appear in Parliament. And because we heard Prime Minister Tsipras on ERT's television yesterday saying that he is not escaped from his responsibilities, I would like to ask ourselves why the Prime Minister today and after this struggle he gave the European fora, he chose not to address the Greek Parliament and through him to the Greek people. It should be addressed to the Greek Parliament and to the Greek people by saying whether he believes in his signature, whether he honours his signature and whether he has come to this agreement because he is the victim of a coup. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gennimatas spoke a moment ago, the President of our Movement, and told you very specifically our own efforts to support the Greek Government and the Greek positions. To rely on the European socialists, such as Mr Holland, who used to call him "Olandreu" once - to Mr Rencie, Mr Fayman and Mr Gabriel, but also to others, such as Mr Schultz, the socialists. For these, then, a few months ago Parliament's Vice-President, Mr Papadimoulis, told you what? He said the self-evident thing, Mr. Papadioulis, when he was told we were eighteen. He said we have European socialists. So we have been next to the Greek Government, despite the fact that considering together, we will see that what has been accomplished in the last five months has no precedent. For far away from me the 'Success stores'. However, I would also like to address the world that listens to us and to ask the following: In January, when things were very difficult and the Greek people came out of five years of hardship, sacrifices and injustices, so that the country could remain in the eurozone without what Mr Kammenos said, the President of the ANELs, the incomprehensible bankruptcy, the banks were - they had some problems, but there were! - and Mr Varoufakis gave 11 billion euros in the direction of Mr Tsipras. Why? You signed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZANEL, on 20 February, an extension of the second memorandum with all the annexes, which we requested to be tabled to the Greek Parliament and were never tabled. Why, Mr. Minister of Economy? Because what you have brought us to vote today and where the agreement is, it says clearly. The credibility is lost. The agreement says in it that credibility is lost. And why? Because in this text of 20 February signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, there was a commitment in the widest sense to the signature of the former Minister, who, after escaping in Aegina, came today to tell us that these things are ridiculous. So there was Mr. Varoufakis' signature and he said what else? He said there would be no unilateral action. But what did you do? The theory of the porcelains: "Let's not get bored!", "Come on!", "That's what will happen", said Minister Flabouraris. That's the perception, that's your worldview! 'Come on, it will also be.' "We'll make fun of the puppets." "We will close our eyes in every kind of artifact, in every kind of ruffles, in every kind of customer...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u213	What do you think? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u214	Yeah, that's what I'm saying! That's what I'm saying! That's what I'm saying, and that's what you did!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Why now that we're done? Don't mess up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u216	And we're the ones who sent us and you told us "dogs" and you told us "German gypsies". And these "German Girls" of PASOK today we put back on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u217	That's past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u218	Next to the socialists, we put our backs on, and we keep putting our backs on, so it doesn't go...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u219	Don't put your back on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u220	Let's not put it in, shall we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u221	Please, Mr. Comrade! Keep going, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u222	Here, ladies and gentlemen, we must decide which left we are going to go and who we are going to leave. We are social democrats, socialists. You're the left. I'm talking to SYRIZA now, because we have two leftists. We have the "dragmaker", which has never explained to the Greek people, after entering the Mint of Mint exactly how the country will be the next day. I have heard some votes in Mr Kammenos's speech on how the economy will collapse. The banks that are at point zero will cease to exist entirely, the low-pensioners first will be affected, because they will not even be able to get their pensions and the unemployed will never have in the'sun fate', because, besides, you cannot get it, Minister of Economy and Development Mr Stathakis, because even the NRP in these six months is completely finished. So we are talking - and I conclude, Mr President - about a government which does not have a national plan, a government which has no compass and which is between the 'draft' and the left of the 'coup d'état'. The coups of whom, Mr. Friend? The Socialists? What's the coup, Mr. Phil? Mr. Holland couped a coup? Who did the coup? Well, make up your mind. Well, rule. The country has a government. The opposition today stands with a sense of responsibility and says: "The country will not fall on the rocks. The country will remain in the euro. The country will remain in Europe. They will not pass the plans of your drachmas, who sit on the thorns and want the country to fall on the rocks. Yes to Europe. Yes to the euro. Not in the hidden designs, in the plan B, in the drachmas and in all that they want to lead us to Grexit." That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK is not taking away its responsibilities. But it is also proud of everything that he has done and is standing here in front of you, and he says "I will put my back." Let's hear you. To hear you, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u223	Thank you. We are heading forward and now asked for the President to speak, Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou. Come on, Madam President. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] We're just finishing up with the President. Here, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the UN independent expert, Mr Bohoslavski, who today, for the third time in the last one and a half months, is intervening with a public call - is the UN independent expert on debt and human rights - to protect the Greek population from further reducing its social rights already unacceptablely undermined and violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u225	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u226	I would also like to thank the scientific coordinator of the Committee on Truth, Public Debt, Mr Erik Tussen, who, with his public intervention today, points out and suggests what the solution is for Greece, for the Greek population, requires the deletion of the shameful, deceptive and unjustified debt, which some people are trying rabies to charge to the Greek people and to the next generations, to these generations who owe you nothing, gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, which you have been ruling for forty years and which you have charged every baby with 32,500 euros with his first breath! I would therefore like to thank them, those movements and political forces in Europe that are being activated and mobilised, saying 'This is a coup against Greece and against the government'. I want to thank all those economists, people of culture, of art, of intellectuals, of letters that have not been extracted from the authority and of the turf of programmes, but have stood up and said that it is unacceptable for modern culture, in 2015 to complete such undemocratic totalitarian act of vengeance to this people and to this government, the left and anti-democratic. Ladies and gentlemen, tonight is a black day for democracy in Greece and Europe. It is a black day for the Greek Parliament, because with a raw blackmail coming from the European Union and addressing the Government, and now Parliament is called within two and a half hours, without any real debate, to ratify the bridging of parliamentary function, the tradition of national sovereignty, the mortgage of public property aimed at selling it out of an even more monstrous TIPD than the existing one - my party, SYRIZA, called and calls it the'study of scandals' - the assumption of the total debt and the recognition of total liabilities, while the debt is unsustainable, unsustainable, unsustainable, unsustainable and illegal, the further reduction of the remuneration of pensioners, those who were found to be anti-constitutional by the Council of State and had been legislated in November 2012 when the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group came out of the country that was now saying "constitutional" and destroyed by the country that it is part of it, which is part of it'. Parliament is called on to ratify the further cut in public expenditure - although public expenditure is already under the European average - the assumption of irreversible primary surpluses that would lead to a greater recession, the assumption that the democratic process of the referendum is a reason for the collapse of confidence, the restoration of confidence by means of a dictatorial order and the degrading acceptance of tolerating legislation - this House is a matter of abolishing laws that we have voted on. If the bill containing reference to an imminent third memorandum was brought by the Memorandum of Understanding, the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami, the DIMAR, the LAOS, I would submit to Parliament a complaint for one to one of its provisions. But the Government of the Left and the Anti-Memorandum Forces bring it, the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, which does not have as its plan the introduction and implementation of the Memorandums, but the discharge of our homeland from them, which does not believe that the memorials of diligence and austerity are the medicine for the economy, but is now taking over years that it is the wrong recipe for poison that kills society and knows how disastrous it is. There is no doubt that the government is blackmailing. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister has suffered the most cruel and unrelenting blackmail, with a tool to blackmail the survival of his people, and there is no doubt at all that, if blackmail is completed tonight, nothing prevents his repetition, not only against us, but also against other peoples and other governments. Besides, we're not the first. Cyprus preceded in March 2013, in the same month that two students lost their lives in Larissa from cheek fumes, because they did not have to heat up, in the same year as a eighteen-year-old manoeuvre to avoid ticket control, the same year that a ten-year-old girl died in Thessaloniki, Sarah, and that one of manoeuvre fumes in the home where she lived for months with her immigrant mother without power. The memorandum has caused a humanitarian crisis in Greece and our so-called partners know it. They are not entitled to threaten the government and the Prime Minister with total humanitarian destruction, with a real holocaust which they themselves have drunk through refusal to provide liquidity, in order to compel him to take out his skin, to consent to everything that is counter-attacked and which he has consistently fought. This is a coup, demolition of democracy, suppression of constitutional function and imposition of conditions of life calculated to bring about the destruction of part or all of the Greek population. In other words, it recommends crime against humanity and social genocide. I think the Prime Minister did everything in his power to counteract extortion. No one can remove this from him, and no one can lose the size of the bravery, selflessness and the moral greatness of his intention today to take on his political self-destruct, considering that he serves the people and society. I think that this should not be allowed by Parliament and by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I believe that Parliament should prevent the 'left parenthesis' project, which is working on the perverse laws that want to turn the left-wing government into an angel, implementing and implementing memorials, who want to put one - one and one of us - to say and to make the opposite of those for which we have fought, who want to degrade us to the extent that we do not recognize ourselves and that our society, our natural ally and the people who are flesh from its flesh, do not recognize us. We do not have the right to do this, not by pseudo pride or ideological dogmatism, but by deep consciousness that it will be an unpopular trauma to collective social morality, for what is shaping and reviling and, in particular, reaping and reaping to new generations, for all those and those who believed in us, not because we have given them appointments and privileges, but because they have trusted their consistency, indifferentness, struggles, our commitments. The plan of the "left parenthesis" is the plan that wants the left-wing and anti-immemorial government to be deceived, wants the people to despair and lose their ruins, wants society to rise and wants destabilization forces, such as the ones we have repeatedly seen to act and be activated in our country, claim "the upper hand". It wants the interests of the interlocutor "to move their puppets", to designate the representatives of ELSTAT, where we are in danger of maintaining Mr Georgios Georgios, the responsible for introducing the country into the memorandum, the Bank of Greece, where we have been Mr Stournaras, the Financial Stability Fund, the GOI. It wants those who destroyed the place to return as righteous and move the finger, while they should apologise to history and justice. And, unfortunately, he wants the most extreme right-wing and fascist forces, the ones from the nightmare past, to claim to express them genuinely and to oppose the struggles of the people. No one's allowed to pretend he doesn't see it. After all, the "rehearsal jenerale" is the meeting tonight. Ladies and gentlemen - and here I will address my colleagues and colleagues from SYRIZA - to democracy there are no dead ends. The people spoke. He said a great "no" in ceremonies, extortion, intimidation, propaganda, terrorism, "no" in the memoranda. We have no right to do so by our vote. We have no right to interpret it as 'not conditional'. Every one of the measures contained in the so-called agreement voted against by a deafening majority. We have an obligation to defend their verdict, because our authority stems from them. And why, unlike others, we have never claimed or wanted power to share and dismantle it, as the forces of the Memorandum, the phantom-political and phenomenal system of the PASOK and New Democracy, which now has the nerve to move the finger. But we claimed power to return it to the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u227	Resign! Let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u228	The 'no' of the people was not 'no' conditional. The 'no' of the people was not with asterisks. But anyone who believes that the 'no' of the referendum has been formulated on the condition that the country is in the euro, should then put the question back to the people again. However, the question can never be what is intended to be answered by the new blackmail of the troika and the new editor. The question can never be euro or democracy, euro or human rights, euro or Europe, because these are questions reactively, anti-democratic, anti-European and anti-humanist. And they are questions that the people have both the knowledge and the courage and the historical experience to answer. But at some point, because some have the courage to talk about drachma lobby, we must also talk about this Simitis system lobby, the lobby of modernisation, which still demands, through interlocutory, that it provokes this place and which wants to be justified through such profound anti-democratic, coup d'état actions, which have reached the intervention of Mr Venizelos, that the House should want to ratify the communiqué, that is to say, to ratify an unreserved text in order to give subordinates and create irreversible situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u229	To keep the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u230	I have no doubt, and I say this with my conscience, I have no doubt - and you owe me the conscience at such times to speak - that both the government and the people really support 'no' in today's vote. This is where no delusions exist. The blackmailing Prime Minister and the blackmailing government helps to shield his parliamentary group, not to give him the charismatic shot with a "yes" thinking that he is facilitated or begging him to blackmail, which the Prime Minister did not do as his predecessors did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u231	Quiet. The President's ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u232	And the case of left and democracy, social and popular emancipation and liberation serves all kinds of resistance, small and large. If the House does not resist today's blackmail, it will not resist any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u233	Mr President, where did the Rules of Procedure go? Did we eat him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u234	That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u235	If he legislates with prisms and ultimatums, he will do so again - and he is already doing so - in a very short time. And if she gives in, if she gets misled, if she's paralyzed, she'll be confronted with herself and her conscience and her own soul. Ladies and gentlemen, if, for some people, the question is heavy and the responsibility is serious, it is worth considering that in our history there have been people who have taken responsibility, when they have come to their hands, and who have made much greater resistance than a conscious 'no' to what really needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much. The President of the New Democracy, Evangelos Meimarakis, has asked for the floor. Please, I've been informed that you will be ahead and the Prime Minister will be finished. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u237	No, no, I don't have the floor. I was asked not to speak to facilitate the debate today. The Prime Minister is recommending. The Prime Minister will speak, and he will be happy to have the last word. I'll talk right after the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's not talking, I'm not talking. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u238	Prime Minister, Mr. President, come on. Prime Minister Alexios Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u239	Mr Meimarakis, I am very pleased that you would like to hear me first and then place yourself. I'm afraid you want to have the last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u240	You have him. I'll give it to you. You have both the signature and the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u241	But today the Members of Parliament have him, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u242	Why don't you come to the main step, Prime Minister? Come here better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u243	It's all right! I'm fine from here, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a critical moment and we are called upon to take decisions on the basis of our responsibility. I mean that all these five months we have fought a hard fight and personally for this fight, which was also wrong, had omissions - and, as I have said, I fully assume my responsibilities and do not escape them - I feel proud, because we self-determination gave the battle for the law of our people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We have fought an unequal battle, we have fought a battle, we have fought against not just the organized established interests within the country, which, from the very beginning, were intended to sabotage this effort, prevent this effort. But that's the least. We messed with powerful opponents. We messed with the international financial system. We gave a fight that, on the one hand, was the right one, and on the other hand, it was economic power. And in that sense, it was an unjust struggle. Nevertheless, we have left a deposit of dignity and democracy in Europe and throughout the world, and this hold does not erase it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that this struggle will at some point bear fruit. Sowing will be fruitful in Europe. A week ago, I was in the European Parliament and realised the great crack, ideological and political. It was not a conflict between the small Greece that stood up and a people - small people - fighting for its right, but it was a conflict, a confrontation, on the one hand against the maintenance forces, those forces that want to be imposed on Europe and on the Eurozone the law of the mighty, the law of the banks, the law that says that the policy of cruel austerity is a one-way, and on the other hand there is no alternative to those forces, which are struggling for Europe to return to its founding values, the value of solidarity, democracy, mutual respect. And I would like to say that this political and ideological conflict of course also has a political battle between the large political families in Europe: the left, the Greens, a part of social democracy - I must admit it - were found to support Greece and its struggle. On the other hand, Mr Meimarakis - I say this to put you in this - the representatives of the people's party to which you belong, the people's right, the family of the European Christian Democrat Republic, were the ones who conquered the law of the Greek people and the fight of the Greek people for the advancement of our fingers, saying that we are a people who lived above their powers, a people who are now asking for the change, a people who ask for solidarity when we give them simple hands. But what we have been given for so many years - and they continue to give us - is loan. Indeed, it is a form of solidarity between creditors. However, the ultimate moment of solidarity for Europe was when all the rest and the small Greece coming out of possession enabled two world wars of Germany to accept the highest solidarity of debt write-off, the highest solidarity of the moratorium in debt repayment, the highest solidarity of the grace period. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure everyone, as many as in this Chamber today have the feeling that the conclusion of this negotiating effort - which is certainly not what they wanted - is the ultimate reintroduction of the old political scene and the justification that they will soon be disproved. The old one is over in this country, it is over along with the choices he made in the past, because there is a crucial difference. The crucial difference is that the Greek people are fully conscious and can also understand the difference between those who fight hard with their souls, the unequal battle and resist those who surrender unattractive. It's a big difference. I would like to assure you, despite the fact that the agreement we have before us is a difficult agreement, despite the fact that it will put us in a narrow budgetary framework, not closer to what we have had in the past, that the adjustment is clearly weaker. I would like to assure you that we at least constitute a guarantee to the Greek people that we will not proceed to acts and omissions, such as the ones that have been made in the past. We are not going to accept the haircut of the insurance funds by 25 billion, nor to sell banks overnight. These were no cheques of the Memorandum Options. These were choices of co-responsibility, of the domestic political system, of this political system, which I feel is seeking today. But it's no time for a rematch. It is time to think that this place, forced to go into this tough financial framework, because this is Europe, it needs hope and perspective, it needs capacity and air of change, we need to support above all the productive powers, to support the people of hardship and work, to support those people who can create in this place despite the difficulties, despite the extremely difficult agreement that we have reached. I want to assure you that as far as I am concerned, and as far as I am concerned - I want to believe - the whole of our parliamentary group, we are not going to make our commitment to fight to the end for the law of the working people of the people in our country in the next period. However, we are not going to do the favor above all to any of our political opponents in and out of the country who, from the first moment on, wanted to confirm the prophecy and expectation to be a small parentheses in time. We will not do them a favour of being a little parentheses in time! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We will remain present and present and will try by every means to protect the social majority from the consequences of economic measures for the majority of which we do not believe - and this is true - but we are forced to implement, because this is the framework for the European Union today. I will not try to make the situation look good, presenting a virtual'success story' like my predecessors. But I would like to tell you that, despite the difficulties and the financial constraints, there can be many things in this country that will serve the interests of the social majority and restore the hurtful pride, today the hurtful sense of the law of the Greek society. And I want to remind everyone and everyone that I am one of the politicians, who have never believed that all the harm in this place lies with strangers. The great adversary - and I speak in terms, let me say it, classic - for the forces of progress and the left lies within the walls. And this is where we have to fight. They are the powers of oligarchy, cartels, state-owned businessmen, the forces of corruption and of interlocutory, generalised tax evasion, these powers which have benefited from the previous years from the memorandum policies, but also from those who ruled the place. Don't forget that. Our commitment is that this government will do everything possible, with the same passion that has fought for six months now in this unequal struggle abroad, to get a class in that country, for the necessary reforms in the public sector, to combat tax evasion, to continuously hunting for corruption. At the same time, this government will provide for alleviating the social consequences of the measures and the social majority will not be handed over to the powers of extremist exploitation, the neoliberal forces. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the time of the crisis and responsibility. This concerns everyone and all of us. I heard a few of you talk about extortion. They're writing the same international media these days. I would like to ask you very sincerely. Do you think that blackmail is real or fake? I am thinking - so as to avoid misunderstanding - of the alternatives I had last night, until Monday morning, to this seventeen-hour tough negotiations. The choices I had in front of me were specific. One option was to accept an agreement on many points of which I have radical disagreements. The second option was the unscrupulous bankruptcy. I do not want to refer to its consequences. We all know them. There was a third option - there is now - the Siomple plan for Greece's consensus exit from the euro and the parallel currency. If we want it and now we have time to ask for it. He's offering it to us. Amongst these choices, I believe, have been burdened with me - as with anyone else in this position, I believe, from which of Parliament - the choice of responsibilities towards the people's layers, against a winterer and looted society over the last five years not to be led to a worse fate, to a worse position than the one it is now. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise this question to all of you, to each and every one of you who is going to vote today. The extortion to which you referred, do you think it's real or fake? If you think it's fake, I'm open to hearing the alternatives and, together, to move on to them. If you think it is real, however, then there is no choice but to all share the burden of this responsibility. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And as far as I'm concerned, I'm the last person to escape from this responsibility. I am, however, the last one who will voluntarily join in the plan of opponents, namely, the last one who, with my own choice, will proceed to facilitating the plan of removal from the government's seat here, who has given the struggle with courage, with dignity, with boldness, in all these months of tough negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The President of the New Republic, Evangelos Meimarakis, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u245	Prime Minister, if we want to sanctify, you won't let us. It's amazing what's going on. Perhaps you would like to speak - and I will take it in this way - to rally the parliamentary group. If that's the reason, I'll accept it and I'll contribute in answering to you. Because you suggest, I answer, you two will answer and close it. Because I have to tell you that your understanding and your consent have dismantled you. And you don't know what you're gonna do tomorrow morning. Are you going to be in the government bench? Won't you be? Because, I don't understand. What are you looking for in us? You asked for an authorisation from us last week. We gave it to you. We have told you under national responsibility that we allow you to have more flexibility so that you can negotiate what you want. We have told you anything more or have you said that you are a 'left parenthesis' and you tell us again, while you say again, 'if we fall, we will fall out of the votes of our own' and say, ultimately, that any enemy within the walls? So now, what do you ask of the Opposition? What more can the Opposition do to you? I am very pleased that you did not tell us, knowing that we will vote 'yes', that the vote will be a vote of confidence, and that you will block us completely here. I've also been at student assemblies, I've been hanging out with left-wings, but here you've gotten over everything. In such long hours of responsibility, I didn't think you'd behaved like that. I also realized that you were telling me stories that you wouldn't talk, so I wouldn't talk. And finally you couldn't take it, you came and you spoke. That's why I took the floor. Think I didn't believe it and had spoken before and now I don't have the right to speak, etc. That's why foreigners don't trust you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today, all Europe is watching, Mr President. The French parliament has voted. Tomorrow he votes for the German parliament. The other European parliaments are next. And you come here and what message do you send them? That you've been negotiating with SYRIZA for so long, you're negotiating with the Independent Greeks. And you do well and you negotiate five to six months. But the negotiation wasn't with them, it was with them outside! I will tell you straight away, Mr President. On 20 February you negotiated and signed the continuation of this programme. Then you took responsibility. And since then, because you have not complied with it - because he wrote that memorandum that you will not go into unilateral actions, that you will not make moves which contravene what you have already signed - we have asked you to testify to the House. And you told us that there was no such thing as that, it wouldn't be testified. And the Vice-President - for many times he gets a crisis of sincerity - told us, 'To God, do not make a parliamentary commitment to this paper'. And you're coming today to tell us what? That the Europeans didn't treat you well? And you're asking me to place myself in this? You, why didn't you sit down when we told you how we were treated and told us it was funny when we were negotiating? Well, I'll be on it as well. Mr Tsipras, you have had much more favourable treatment than Europeans in the first quarter, compared to the last half of 2014 to us. Much more favourable treatment! And the ties and the smiles! And if there were no Yunger belonging to the European People's Party, I would like to see what the socialists to whom you are addressing and whom you are now applauding. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. 'Olandreou' - the French Parliament has already voted and is waiting for us to finish - you have made fun of him. And you know that Mr. 'Olandreu' by Mrs Merkel. Merkel, with which you talked every day, smiles and stories, to which party is it? Is it at the left, green party in Europe and we didn't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u246	And I smile at you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u247	We, Mr President - I am telling you - have known what negotiation means. You didn't know. You fooled us, you laughed. I don't want to mention and remind you what you've been telling us. But you signed on 20 February that you recognise the framework under which the European Union is moving, how it is financed and all that. Yes, sir. So I ask you. Did you know or did you not know that once the programme is over, the European Central Bank cannot finance it? And after you knew, did you know the banks would close? You knew it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u248	Before the banks closed down
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u249	Mr Balaura, the programme is over and before we say the referendum, before we vote, you came here and told us that the European Central Bank does not give any further credit. Good. Then why did you vote for it? And why didn't we close then? So who closed the banks? And with whose signature, after all, does this PPA close the banks? And when are they going to open up again? And anyway, what's the new and the best thing you're talking about? Because we need to talk about this and that's all we have to do. If the new is closed banks, tails outside banks, restrictive policies etc., the Greek people do not want this new one! Because he voted you for something new, according to the false promises you made to him and kept his vote, and today you are accountable for it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I, ladies and gentlemen, am not surprised that many SYRIZA colleagues will vote 'no'. I would be surprised if they voted 'yes'. Because you, Mr President, have sucked them up and, indeed, some of them have already taken advantage of that. And now you want them inside. I am not surprised that my colleague Mr Lafazanis will vote 'no' or anyone who votes 'no'. We know each other in here. We know. How did you think they'd vote 'yes'? Tell me about it. In any case, to end the corn, the New Democracy and the others who vote 'no' will vote for laws relating to government policy, that is not the case. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The New Democracy gives you the support of the European process, but from there on, ladies and gentlemen, for the issues of education, health and for matters which we consider to be serious, there should also be a consultation, not just in economics and not just in economics. Because I feel like we've been caught for fools here. And we're not! Do not mislead civil courtesy against all this and do not think it is weakness. Oh, no! It is a political force for us to tell you, yes, move on to Europe, move forward as we should. And we told you, Prime Minister. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, I will tell you that I still understand you. I know what you've been through. I am not in the mood today, and I do not think this is the time to say all the things we have to say. But you must admit, Prime Minister, that the attitude as a whole, of counter-population of democracy, has given you many weapons. The 200 fifty one you had from here and you went there, counted. And not only did you not accept it, but some are talking about a coup and that they don't want the coup d'état. I have to tell you we're in a critical phase. Do not come back and tell us that the risk has passed and the partners are blackmailers because the risk has not passed. You know that? You know it! She hasn't got zeroed. Just because we know we're waiting for the other bill next week and we're waiting for the final agreement for September - October.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u250	In September.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u251	In September. Whenever you want to. You'll close them, we'll follow. However, I am telling you that, in agreement and wisely with the bills you will bring from today to September. We, therefore, do not understand such extortion either. Because here, if you say that your partners are blackmailing, see what conscious blackmail you're doing to us. Well, comrades, okay, they'll pass it, 'cause they wanted to. They were eaten by their organization. And today they will come to be placed with 'yes' or 'no'. And we'll see how they'll be placed every time. But be careful. It's better to agree a bad deal than a non-agreement, so we can finally get in touch with each other. But the agreement, first of all, brings the signature Tsipras - Kammenos, is your property, and you must also find the bravery and the mechanism to carry out it, to start its implementation. Secondly, this agreement can indeed be improved, since we have taken certain positive steps, we will have rebuilt our credibility and, indeed, we will be able to renegotiate it. And it must finally end - because it did not end as you said - by the September vote and by Grexit, so that the country will be able to get back into normality, regularity and to come to an agreement. So we tell you that 'yes' ours is without trade. We don't do trade, we don't ask for consideration, and we're not going to ask for it. However, we did not identify each other and do not identify ourselves with these measures. Do not let me remind you that the VAT on the Samaras government has been removed and today you are bringing it and making it acceptable. Some Members will not vote because they think we will vote for it then. These are not reasonable, and they are seen by the outsiders, unfortunately. And, ultimately, the logic must prevail within this framework of understanding that we have. At the same time, Mr President, it did not cost a billion. So you told us that you didn't know, you were in the magnificence, you found the blackmailers, and now you know. But to find out, we'll pay a lot of billions. The tuition costs, they are increased and the Greek people will pay them. I would also like to ask the opinion of all those who, in their vote, have not helped to elect the President of the Republic and have led us to the elections with you and have heard you and asked the voters of these parties: is that what they wanted? That was the best? Would it have been best if we had gone to Hardouvelis mail, had we completed the fifth evaluation, had we entered the security network and been on the markets? Today the measures are much more. I don't dare mention them either, because I'm afraid they'll increase. It's gonna be a lot more than we figure. And if you don't hurry to implement them, they will increase by geometric progress. That is why I am telling you that you must go ahead, because we do not have time to waste. We are voting 'yes' in the course of Europe. Don't get it wrong. That's what we said, and that's what we do without haggling. We have the last bet in front of us, and this bet has to be won. Prime Minister, I tell you that you will do well but know that if there is no New Democracy guarantee, you will have a huge problem both as Greece and as a government. We are the ones who guarantee the European path, on the basis of which the Greek people can move and that will soon be seen. Whenever you want, dare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u252	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u253	Mr President of the New Democracy, I will only speak for two minutes to give you two specific answers to some of the particulars you mentioned. The first answer, it's about how much billions we bring about in connection with Hardouvelis mail. Look, the fact that we came out of the memorandum last November, and indeed with the famous credit line you just announced, then the spreads rushed up to the god, so this trick was like a fairy tale with "success story". One country, ladies and gentlemen, and because we are at a very critical moment, it is important to speak the language of truth - when it has a debt of 180% of GDP and is now approaching 200% of GDP, according to the International Monetary Fund report, you realise that it is not a country that can come out on the market if it has not been able to obtain very high growth rates and at the same time if the necessary write-down has not taken place - debt restructuring. Bad lies. I am aware that all the previous time, in all the agreements you have brought to Parliament, the financial adjustment was heavy, heavier than the one we are now bringing. And you have to admit it. I admit that the structural measures that we are bringing together are hard and I do not agree with them, I do not think they will favour the Greek economy and say it openly. However, I say that I am obliged to do so, and that is perhaps our difference. But, Mr Majmarakis, for the first time, we are assuming that these almost 85 billion guaranteed funding for the next three years - 25 for the banks - to fully meet the needs, so 60 billion - fully meet all the country's financial needs in the medium term, that is, 27 billion, of the European Central Bank's bonds, about 20 billion of the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, for the next three years, we have a de facto debt restructuring, we do not need high repayments. They're secured. At the same time, however, we also have a strong commitment to the decision in the autumn, to restructuring and debt that has accumulated and are very high payments to the European Mechanism since 2022. And a moment ago, we had the statement by the Director of the International Monetary Fund, which said that this is the first time that Europeans have had to discuss debt write-offs. This is a positive development and you must admit it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u254	When you discuss her, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u255	And it is a positive development, in the sense that if there is a prospect, a possibility of the economy coming out of this self-supporting crisis, it is a possibility to restructure the debt. And this restructuring of debt is ensured both in the medium and long term, and it is very important to get out at last, to see light at the end of the tunnel. Furthermore, Mr Majmarakis, this agreement also ensures a package of EUR 35 billion for investments, with the promise that a large part of them will be forward-looking, direct investment. But I would like to say to you - and I think you will agree with me - that the ability to compensate for the material tendencies of the austerity measures of about 8 billion euros over the next two years, the possibility of it being made to a maximum extent by the climate that will be created in the markets, in the investors' markets, in the climate that guaranteed funding can create, the climate that can be created by certainty that the debate on Grexit is over. So attracting investment along with European investment is the only opportunity to rekindle the economy, to balance the current trends and, indeed, to get out of the crisis. These figures - let me be honest with them - were neither in the programme that came in 2010 nor in the programme that came in 2012. There were only 4% a year's heavy budgetary adjustment obligations. I am the last person to look forward to an agreement that I have said on many points I disagree on its content but at the same time, I have to say the truth, 'I've turned it right'. What we had on 25 June was only tough measures, without a financial programme, without a restructuring of the debt, with no prospect, five months and then again a new memorandum. What we have now is a difficult agreement, but it can give a prospect of getting out of the crisis in the next period, much faster than the end of the time period of the programme. Finally, I would like to make two more comments. Mr Meimarakis, how to do this, Mr President, is the difference - and this cannot be concealed - that you are part of the same political family, with those who have been targeting our country and the Greek people over the last few years. You're in the same political family as Mrs. Merkel, Mr. Shoeble, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Juncker and Mr. Draghi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u257	How to do this, that's reality. On the other hand, we are giving a fight beyond and outside political alliances, a struggle which has shown something that is very important and for which we all have to be proud. Do you know when this has happened in Europe? In the major cities, in the streets, in the squares, to come out protesters with the Greek flags, to express their solidarity with the Greek people? From the years of dictatorship, and now we have it again and this is a very touching development that must honor us all! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And my last remark, Mr President. I have seen that you are very anxious about what the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u258	Don't you have one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u259	You're struggling for government cohesion. If you're fighting so hard, why don't you make a motion of censure? Or yet - why aren't you asking for elections? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Governments are falling, above all, when they lose their support in society, and our own government has not lost its support in society at all, it will not lose it in Parliament, because there are no self-sufficient MPs who will drop the Left Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u261	After the Prime Minister's denunciation, I'd have called the classroom if I gave you the floor. So the Prime Minister will answer. Here, Mr. Maymarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u262	Prime Minister, I assume you've read the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u263	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u264	Wait a minute. Prime Minister, I assume you've read the deal. If you have read the agreement, then, on page 6, the euro summit expressly states and emphasises that 'no write-downs of nominal debt cannot be undertaken. The Greek authorities reiterate their unequivocal commitment to honour their financial obligations fully and in good time to all their creditors.’ In this connection, Mr Varoufakis said that 'we will pay for it all'. Another thing he did after or thought to say, who applauded you standing up. Wow! [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Although five minutes ago he was telling us how bad the deal is and he's not going to vote on it. You got nothing more about the debt than it was in the 2012 agreement. Are you telling me anything more you got? At the same time, please do not go into the detailed analysis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u265	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Chaakalot, he knows it, don't worry. She was present.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u267	We need to get into detail and talk about the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u268	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u269	If we get into detail, we'll get confused. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, in any case, I do not want to go into detail because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Gaki, Mr. Venizelo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u271	Convenience...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u272	...is to rally you, ladies and gentlemen, but you don't rally. I'm the provocator.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u273	Gentlemen, please let the President finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Venizelo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u275	Mr. President, a party leader speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u276	Because there's been a setup, it doesn't have to be any more. Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u277	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I do not want to take the time. The casing's over. I can see that. There is indeed a concern - but not from us - about what will happen to your parliamentary group. You do not understand, it seems that this concern has been raised by all of Europe, because you will be called - I repeat - to implement it and with half of the parliamentary groups you cannot implement it. I am not saying that you will either fall for elections or what you have said before, motions of distrust. Do you even want to have a bigger set-up? If you need to do it tomorrow, we don't have a problem. We don't have a problem. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] I'm sure you'll all vote. After all, you said: 'We shall vote 'yes' on the government and 'no' on measures! That's unprecedented. We'll rule, drink coffee, and we'll talk. No, ladies and gentlemen, you must also take responsibility. So, how's it going to be? Anyone who governs will also have the responsibilities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I, Prime Minister, believe that your parliamentary group will indeed assume its responsibilities. He's trained. I saw that you also made a parliamentary group last week eight o'clock in the morning - and that is something new for the Left - and I am sure you have taken all these government directions and steps and you will succeed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u279	Does the Prime Minister wish to close the meeting? Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u280	I will not go into the timeline, which has been set up as the task of the parliamentary group and of the meeting by the President of the New Democracy. I would like to answer the question you have raised on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u281	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u282	Mr Meimarakis, Mr President, in the 2012 Eurogroup decision, there was just one promise that when the country has primary surpluses, we will see, we will discuss the issue of debt sustainability.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u283	There's not that either.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u284	Please. In this decision there is a clear commitment that immediately after the first, next evaluation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u285	Where am I supposed to read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u286	All right, but I know her from the outside, Mr President, you have no doubt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u287	That's why you tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u288	Immediately after the first assessment there will be a substantial debate on the necessary restructuring of the debt, refining, and further reference is made to two conditions, grace period and prolongation. These two conditions, period of grace and prolongation, did not exist in the previous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u289	All right, let's go vote now and see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u290	Mr. Mairakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u291	Now to get together and see things with their name, because things are critical. This is a very important objective and a national objective to be implemented. And in order for it to be implemented, we must not only be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u292	You want us, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u293	And I want to come to this crucial issue now. The partners must also be all right in their promises, because here there is a conflict that goes beyond if you want, on the Greek side and on the part of the partners, the issue of debt sustainability. You all know that the three institutions do not have the same view on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u294	Neither did they have in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u295	And you all know that, on the one hand, the International Monetary Fund is of course insisting on tough structural reforms, but on the other hand, it is imperative and now, as a precondition for any participation in the programme, of substantial write-down, restructuring - even for debt haircuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u296	There's nothing here though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u297	On the other hand, our European partners, led by Germany and the Netherlands, do not even want to discuss the possibility of hairdrying. Until first, they did not want to discuss restructuring. But they also wanted to ensure the presence of the Fund in the programme well. That was a great contradiction. Now they are committed and forced to discuss the necessary restructuring of the debt, both by their statements and by Mrs Merkel in her statement today. That's the truth. And because it's a true good thing for the country, I'd like you to show a great soul and recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u298	Yeah, but there's nothing here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u299	Gentlemen, let's turn it off. Let's move on to the judging phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u301	Mr President, after the Prime Minister has seconded me to the order of order, I will be given up by the most responsible and the most valid ones to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Do me a favor. I honor you very much. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u302	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u303	But the Prime Minister's closed now. It can't be. He's going to give up on me himself. You understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is finalised: "Urgent arrangements for negotiating and concluding an agreement with the European Support Mechanism (EPM).).’ As far as the procedure is concerned, I would like to remind you that under Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure - I shall read it for formal reasons - 'The roll-call vote shall take place: when a request is made, signed by one twenty-fifth (1/20) of the total number of Members. The names of the Members signing the application shall be given at the end of the debate on this particular matter. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted.’; The principle of the draft law has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u304	I will read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to see if the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Nikolaos Michaloliacos. Here you go. Mr. Michael Arvanitis-Abramis. Here you go. Mr. George Galeos. Here you go. Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Fotius Gran. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Artemis Matthaopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. Mrs. Despina Sveroni-Hondronasius. Here. Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's League - Golden Dawn. Also, in principle and in accordance with Article 1 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u305	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to see if the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Here you go. Mrs. Alexandra Pappiga. Here. Mr. Athanasios Vardalis. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Gerasimidou. Here. Mr. Ioannis Giokas. Here you go. Mrs. Kanelli. Here. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. Here you go. Mr Christos Katsotis. Here you go. Mr. George Lambroulis. Here you go. Mrs. Diamond Manolaku. Here. Mr. George Marinos. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Paphilis. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis. Here you go. Mr Stavros Tassos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Do you accept the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u307	The House unanimously agreed. Therefore, a roll-call vote will take place on the principle and Article 1 of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent arrangements for the negotiation and conclusion of an agreement with the European Support Mechanism (EMM)’. In accordance with Article 72(6): Receiving the principle and Article 1 of the bill reads: ‘WHEN’. The non-accepting authority and Article 1 of the bill read ‘OHS’. The voters say 'PARON'. On the list, Mrs Panagiota Dritsel is called by SYRIZA and Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u308	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 299 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 229 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 64 MPs voted. They voted for the PAPON 6 MPs. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Finance "Urgent arrangements for negotiating and concluding an agreement with the European Support Facility (EPM).In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EEC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to the steel industry. A total of 299 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 229 Members voted. Against the article, i.e. 'OH', 64 Members voted. 'PARON' have voted 6 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority as amended by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u310	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u311	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The Finance Ministry's draft law therefore: "Urgent arrangements for negotiating and concluding an agreement with the European Support Mechanism (E.M.S.).' a majority in favour of the principle and the articles. Do you accept at this point that we vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u312	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u313	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. The Finance Ministry's draft law therefore: "Urgent arrangements for negotiating and concluding an agreement with the European Support Mechanism (E.M.S.).' a majority, only debated in principle, of the articles and of the whole, was accepted, and it reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u314	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-15-S1-commons.u315	With the agreement of the House at 2.07 p.m. the sitting is closed for Friday 17 July 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
