ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday 15 June 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House). 1. The question under number 322-9-6-2015 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning initiatives by farmers - producers known as "NOLOGIES WITHOUT MEASURES". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 325/9-6-2015 by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the completion of the project on the "MOREA" motorway. 3. The 319/8-6-2015 topical question by MP Aitolakarannia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the operation of a new toll station in the bypass of Agrinio. 4. The 314/5-5-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Christina Tachiaou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, about the risk faced by the Aegean islands by the lack of water ahead of a tourist season. 5. The Question No 316/8-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure that are incompatible with human rights. 6. The 315/8-6-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos on the progress of PPP contracts (Public-Public-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Prority-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Priv-Prity-Priv-Priv-Priv-Prim. B. INVESTMENTS second-round Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Publisher to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the completion of the Egnatia Road Station in Evros. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 321/8-6-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the programmes of the NRP. 3. The 289/29-5-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of National Defence, on Turkish airspace violations and Greek territorial waters. 4. The question by No. 219/14-5-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the provocative action of Skopje in Florina. 5. The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. 6. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 287/29-5-2015, a topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of National Defence on the reopening of the ELECTROMAN KYPE plant, its integration into the administrative structure of the Ministry of National Defence and the reopening of the local economy. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question by number 2058-27-2015 of the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Greek Parliament, Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning measures to address the problems arising from the maintenance of the OSCE buses. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 1642/8-4-2015 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the procedure for the authorisation of outdoor parking at the Historical Centre of Athens. 3. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "Aydinlik" that "Turkey proceeded with the creation of a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Minister, we will give priority to two questions by Mr Mavragans, because they are both to you, so that Mr Mavraanis can go to the committee, which he meets and where he is taking part. First we will discuss the fifth under No 288/29-5-2015 topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Mavraanis, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the need to extend the regulation of the percentage of doses and the due debts to PPC. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for facilitating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u3	And Mr. Santorinios, thank you for giving you his turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u4	I would like to thank my colleagues very much. Minister, the issue is relatively well-known, in the sense that in the previous years the country's economic aberration under the Memorandum of Sufficient Press has accumulated too many debts from private, traders, commercial and business to PPC. Some attempts were made in previous years, by decision of the boards, etc., which were based up to the limit of twenty-four doses, i.e. between four and twenty-four doses. Many times, because we are talking about a five-year crisis, and accumulated debts were large, the twenty-four instalments were not enough. That is why, today, we are observing the phenomenon, many businesses, professionals or individual businesses or larger companies or individuals cannot reconnect their currents. PPC cuts off the current, precisely because they cannot serve the setup they had signed in the past. For this reason, I think it is reasonable - and I must reply from your Ministry, as I know your social sensitivity, and that is why I am investing in it - that the institution of the hundreds of instalments to the public and the insurance funds and to the PPC should be taken into account. The argument that this might create a accounting disadvantage for PPC, because it may be that these liabilities are entered in the liabilities, does not find any resonance on logic, but also on accounting, because PPC is not collecting these amounts now. Therefore, it is a one-way road, even for PPC, and it would make it easier for the board to have your government's legislative facility in this direction for the hundreds of doses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Mavragans, for your question. Indeed, it is very timely and I would say that it is of particular importance. At this time PPC is being tested very strongly by the fact that it has a huge amount of due debt, which is a great burden on the company. Unfortunately, it seems that the trend is likely to increase - although the intensity of growth has been reduced - rather than declined. In these circumstances, therefore, where households and businesses are struggling with major problems, PPC must do much more, much more essential, in order to deal with this ganger of overdue debts, as far as possible, of course. I think that if PPC does so, it will benefit it, i.e. for the benefit of its business and its prospects - as long as it does so properly - and, of course, for the benefit of the Greek economy and consumers. Right now, you know PPC makes some adjustments. However, these arrangements are made, they are insufficient. They cannot deal with the acute problem, as has at least been shaped in recent years and are escalating. We therefore need to see much more radical, more radical measures. I would like to inform you that our Ministry is in a substantial dialogue right now with PPC, and we will be ready at the beginning of the week - we are in the process of final processing - to propose a new draft of arrangements, which will be brave, substantial and effective and will enable us to relieve businesses and households and make a new start, a new starting point. Right now, I can't get into any details of this plan. I imagine, however, that it can be announced on Monday or Tuesday. I think it's gonna be a great breath for both PPC itself, but also for the households. There will be too many who will be able to make a new starting point. We believe, of course, that this plan of brave and substantial arrangements will be of great help at this time in PPC being tested. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] And we hope to give PPC the required liquidity that it needs in order to implement its programme more effectively. Therefore, your question is fertile. It gives us the opportunity to highlight to the public the sensitivity to be shown to the Greek people in the face of major, acute problems - I would say - social problems. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Consumers must be relieved. And we'll relieve them. And PPC is going to be able to have some collections, which will enable it to improve its prospects. That is what we will do and wait until early this week for the new ones, which I believe will find a positive response from Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u7	That's an interesting answer. Mr. Mavragany, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u8	I will not need them, Mr President. Thank you very much for the answer. It was, indeed, encouraging. I think that the PPC Board will also be relieved, because it has the - let us say - a rift of control by the shareholders, since it participates in the Committee and would like legislative intervention in order to resolve this issue and to give a course of direction in this respect, which you said, development and reliefist, humanitarian and so on. Basic stone of production costs, you know it, is energy costs. Therefore, too, dosing is a measure to reduce energy costs for a company and reduce production costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr Mavragans, for the brief. Minister, would you like to fill in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u10	Yes, with only one word to say that it is a happy fact that PPC continues and will continue for a very long time - forever, I would say, at least as a mood on our part - to be a public business. It is very positive that the main shareholder is the Greek State. Therefore, we can have a very good cooperation with PPC's board of directors and in particular with the new president and CEO, Mr Panagiotakis. This cooperation, I think, can bring very substantial fruit to this particular problem. I believe that since the beginning of this week many people will feel more pleasant in its relationship with the Public Power Corporation, this great energy giant of our country, which we all have to support, because on it the country is based on Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Let's go immediately to the next, the sixth, cycle number 252/20-5-2015, a topical question by Mr Evia and MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the same Minister, the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the implementation of the decisions of the Regulatory Authority of the European Commission and the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission and in the case of LARCO SA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In terms of our previous point, Mr Minister, this is also essentially about the LARCO operation, but it has 'urban' - let us say so - and the whole productive fabric of the country, because, as I have said before, the main component which forms the cost of production, outside the wage costs - which is red - is to us a further reduction, because it means human sacrifices - is energy costs. So energy costs will definitely have to be reduced to reasonable levels to compete with Greek companies, like LARCO. LARCO invests and attempts in one of the strategic sectors of our country, in strategic minerals, nickel, that is, which could well by means of a process, by verticalisation, end up in the final process, such as stainless steel. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] LARCO therefore faces this contradictory element: While another large-scale company, the 'ALUMINIUM OF GREECE', has achieved from the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union a decision on the assimilation of the energy invoice at around 30 euros per megawattage - while to date it has been needed with 40 euros - LARCO, which is of equivalent size, does not enjoy the same energy treatment. It is precisely because in LARCO S.A., at least we Evboes, but also throughout Greece, should invest too much expectations, precisely for the processing of nickel in the direction of production and stainless steel, but on the other hand, the company should contribute to public income even more and contribute to taxes and jobs, so we ask you with an agony if we can have a provision, in the direction of regulating the old debts of LARCO SA, at lower levels with more doses, so that it does not have a great energy cost. We are also waiting for a permanent forecast, knowing very well that your strategy is to reduce energy costs, so you also have those predictions for gas with friend Russia, but also with other countries, so that energy costs can eventually be reduced. That is why we are asking you, Minister, and in your face we particularly expect you to respond to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u13	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Our government sees LARCO as very positive. LARCO is a public industrial giant in the country, which we want to support with all our forces and all our means, in order to reconstruct and be able to stand firm on its feet and open its wings by giving a new perspective to the same, but also to the Greek economy. Of course, as you can see, we also support - and I said before in my reply - and PPC, the other energy giant in our country, which has offered a great deal to the Greek economy and can offer much more, I would say, in the future and much more, to get out of the crisis. PPC has a new management. I hope that we will also have a new administration in LARCO. I believe that, through the good cooperation of these two administrations, all the issues and any differences that exist in the interests of both companies, and LARCO, which requires particular energy support, but also of PPC, which I think has done a great deal to support the energy-intensive industries in our country and especially the public operation of LARCO. The energy burden is too great for the Greek economy and, I would say, great for those businesses, which are largely based on energy. Of course, it is great, unbearable, the energy cost for households as well. We therefore want to promote this strategy, which we have and promote it forcefully to reduce energy costs. If we cannot reduce the energy burden on the Greek economy, we will not be able to get out of the crisis and, of course, we will not be able to shape an efficient economy that can stand on the European and international assets. Therefore, all the measures, all our planning at the Ministry, for the last four months, have been to find ways to reduce this energy cost. We believe we will do something essential for Larco as well. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The two new administrations can work together in favour of both companies and we have something very positive as a result of Larco, which of course does not damage PPC, which is also a giant for our country, as I told you, who must stand on his feet. I believe that this cooperation will bring fruit soon, to the benefit of what you say in your question and which are very important and critical.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr Mavraani, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I think, Mr President, and Mr Minister, that I have been completely covered. I would like to express your wish that your Ministry should - and I am sure it will - take the same approach as you have said, as quickly as possible. It is well known that in previous years there has been a foggy administrative situation in LARCO, which led it towards depreciation. I believe that the new administration, under your strategy and your Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, will be guided by the utilization of all its deposits - and I say this in the name of knowledge - and, of course, by the energy aid you have used, not only for LARCO, but also for all businesses. Because it is in the interests of all of us to reduce unemployment, to increase production. Because, I repeat, we lie to foreign friends that we have increased production costs. But when we come to resolve the energy cost that helps to reduce production costs, there are no very friendly approaches from the outside world and are more pressing for us to reduce wage costs. We therefore warmly welcome what you have told us and look forward to the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u17	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, by way of derogation, although I think that I, and Mr Mavraanis, have correctly understood it, any beneficial provisions for LARCO are supposed to include the private sector in business or not? Because that's what Mr. Mavragans said. If you want, you answer it to us. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u18	Energy costs must be reduced overall for our country's businesses whether they are public or private. I said that energy costs are too high and I would say that they are unequal compared to other European countries. It is therefore necessary to reduce it so that we can have a more efficient economy. Of course, we expect this effort to reduce energy costs not to benefit companies' profits, but above all to the benefit of the growth of our economy and the reduction of unemployment, i.e. employment. From there on, of course, I must stress that LARCO is something special, because it is a great undertaking to exploit the mineral wealth of our country and a mineral, which is of national strategic importance. And of course, I would say that it is of special importance, because it is also a public undertaking and a highly energetic one. Maybe it's the most energetic business in the Greek economy. These give her a special meaning. And therefore, LARCO, from this point of view, needs a special attention to build on this difficult situation which we are currently experiencing. I thank Mr Mavragans for his sensitivity to both questions. It also sensitizes the government. And I think that in cooperation we will be able to do something better for both LARCO and the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. We enter the first with number 296/2-2015, the first question of the Dodecanese MP for the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nectarios Santorini to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr. Panagiotis Lafazanis, on the pricing of electricity in the desalination plants. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, desalination plants are vital for the survival of islands and islands. As you know, in particular in the South Aegean region there are too many of the anhydrous islands in which water is so far transported in conditions which are not the best and at particular cost to the public budget, which exceeds EUR 12 per cubic metre. In recent years there has been an attempt to set up desalination plants in all the islands in order to make them hydrodesulphurically autonomous. But even this solution is not enough financially. It has high costs, due to the high cost of electricity, which is needed for the desalination, given PPC’s insistence not to classify the desalination in the industrial tariff category, invoking a decision of its board of directors. Accordingly, there are ministerial decisions on the classification of activities and infrastructure, which classify desalinations in industrial and related installations, as well as other joint ministerial decisions, in relation to the relevance of industrial activities, which classify desalinations in the mid- or low-purpose activities. Therefore, with my question, I would like to know what action you will take to reduce the cost of electricity on our islands, which is borne by both the public, the municipalities and the islands themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u21	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you raise an extremely important issue. Of course, we need to know that electricity on the islands is subsidised by Greek citizens, households and businesses of mainland Greece. We have a problem of decades, which should have been solved. The solution has now begun, i.e. the electrical interconnection of mainland Greece with the islands. This would be a great help and would be drastically reduced, I would say, the electricity tariffs, which are charged with the part of the services of general interest, which is a subsidy that those who consume electricity in landlocked Greece to the islands. From there, of course, as I told you, there is a need for a reduction in the price of electricity in general, not only for desalination units, but, in general, I would say, for the Greek economy - business and households - which I mentioned earlier. As far as desalination plants are concerned, they play a very important role for the islands - especially the smaller islands - and their water supply. Water supply is a central issue for the islands and their prospects, their development, their survival, I would say. Desolation is an activity that consumes high energy. But I would say that desalination, particularly in the smaller islands, is either low or in the middle. If they are characterised by industry, there is no difference in the low trend, i.e. whether desalination is classified as an industrial activity, in terms of the cost of energy. If we go to the middle voltage, the difference will be too small, only in terms of the adjustable arm. Therefore, the answer to the reduction in energy costs for desalination plants is not to say that they are transferred to industrial use, to industrial activity. What I think needs to be looked at - and we are already working with PPC on this - is to have a special invoice for desalination plants, which would relieve them of unbearable energy costs and give a positive impetus to their development. At this time, in cooperation with PPC's administration, we are considering this possibility of the desalination units passing through a special tariff. I think we will soon be ready to give an answer, which will be positive on this issue, to the problem that concerns us all, which concerns the islands, concerns me personally as Minister. I am pleased to see the interest shown by my colleague. It is positive, I think, because it urges all of us to move positively in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Many issues have been raised, beyond the issue of desalination, and I would like to comment on them. Indeed, Minister, electricity interconnection is a consistent demand for Greece's islands. In addition to the cost of conventional electricity generation and energy dependence on oil, many environmental issues arise, which must be dealt with and many wounds in the small islands. I think it is very positive that your commitment to go towards a special invoice for desalination is very positive. What I would like to point out is that mainland Greece can actually subsidise the electricity, but other activities on our islands, but islanders must also have equal opportunities and islands are precisely that. There is, therefore, an inequality grid which the State and the Government must remove, as far as possible. That is why I am very happy about your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Mr Minister, since we have you here, I, as an islander, sign all of this, but I would like to ask you this. But perhaps we should also think of people who live in mountain tumors, in Agragra, in Jumerkas, etc.Huh? These people have forgotten a little about the subject of the special invoice. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u26	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u27	Another issue and I apologise for the intervention. I'm just putting it because we found you here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u28	No, that's the way it is. Indeed, it needs interest in all directions. Of course, we have a special issue here concerning desalination units. We, as I have said, are looking into it in a positive way and I think we can have good results soon. From there, of course, islanders are entitled to be treated completely equally with all Greek citizens, with all the inhabitants of this country. Alas, we're not talking about that. However, the electrical interconnection, which has begun and must move forward and complete it quickly, will be a great contribution to the islands - you said, you have recognized, you live, and you know it - because they could stop operating large-scale oil plants operating on the islands and which are burdening the environment and which have great costs. We would also be relieved of the entire electricity system in our country because it would greatly reduce its costs. So I think it is a positive direction in which we are moving. It will certainly have positive effects and, above all, for islanders, who are entitled to have sufficient energy, safe energy supply and satisfactory electricity prices, so that they can develop their activities and our islands better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. The fourth question will be discussed under number 228/18-5-2015 of the new Republic MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the delay of the meeting of the Central Board for Environmental Authorisation (CSDP) to approve environmental conditions of certain projects and activities. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is an important infrastructure project in the Kilkis region, which concerns the connection between Thessaloniki and Kilkis with the industrial area of Kilkis and the Evzoon and Doirani customs. This project is part of the ESRB, as you well know, and should have been completed by 31 December 2015. Some minor work has so far been done and, fortunately, expropriation has been completed last August in practice - and I note this - of the previous Ministerial Council, as has been done in other projects, characterizing it as important for the economy of the country and the process of expropriation under Article 7A has been chosen. What remains, in order to enable the contractor to settle, is to approve the extension of the environmental conditions of the project, which expired in May 2014. The Board responsible for extending these environmental conditions shall be the CSDS, a council which shall be subject to your Ministry and which shall be chaired by the relevant Secretary-General of the Ministry. I, after taking up your duties, expected a reasonable period of time and did - the truth is - my first question on 3 April, asking about the issue of the meetings of the CSDP, the institution in charge. Then the timely question was followed. If the environmental conditions are not adopted in time, i.e. the CSR are not established and this extension of environmental conditions is not approved, we have two risks: one is even to endure the project, because on 31 December 2015 we will be without work, without an established contractor. There is project contractor, but it cannot be installed as the environmental conditions do not exist. In any case, this work will go - we assume and hope - as a bridge to the next ESDP. But you understand very well that if the work is already under way, then the work is absolutely guaranteed. While the contractor is not installed, I don't know what risks there might be. The second is that from the inertia of the public these months in general, we are over-ahead with the contractor, and that may also raise claims for damages from him. In any case, because it is a project that has indeed been characterised by all those who know it and by the Region of Central Macedonia as very important, I would like your response to the programming for the establishment and meeting of the CSR.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President, and likewise my colleague for his timely question. We fully support, dear colleague, the road axis of Thessaloniki - Kilkis - Doirani. It is a project of particular importance for northern Greece, very useful and necessary. We therefore fully agree that we must do our utmost to ensure that this work does not just end up - it would be unacceptable - but move on quickly and complete, in the interests and economy of northern Greece, but also of the citizens. There is indeed a problem here, of not setting up the Central Board of Environmental Licensing so far. There is a delay, in fact, which is mainly due to the formation of a new governmental structure and to the change of organisational charts in the ministries and the placement of a new Secretary-General with special competences in the new ministries that have been formed. Unfortunately, the new Secretary-General of our Ministry was designated on 15 May 2015. Since then he has had too many responsibilities and too much to do as a new secretary. In any case, however, the setting-up of the Central Environmental Licensing Board has now entered a good path. We believe that in the next few days this will have been established and will go for publication in the Official Journal of the Government. One of its first actions will be to give an opinion on the environmental licensing of the Thessaloniki road axis - Kilkis - Doiranis. I think that with these moves we will go on a good road to this project, which, as I said, is so important - and you recognise it first of all as a North Helladite MEP - not only for the Kilkis region, but for the whole of northern Greece. These are our movements in the next few days and I think they will bring immediate effect in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u33	Good news you're going upstairs, Mr. Georgioda. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u34	Minister, I am pleased to hear your answer. I hope that we do not have to come back to this important issue and indeed within the next few days, since there are no formal arguments anymore, we have to have the establishment of the CSDP and the positive opinion on this project. Because, you know, the Kilkisians, who can't know the details and procedures, start and become skeptical about carrying out such an important project. On my own initiative, we were able to incorporate it into 7a'. In eight months, the expropriation took place. Now, waiting for four, five months - I understand the issues that existed - just for a typical part of this process, it despises all the efforts of all the actors over the years. Thank you for your position and I hope that we will immediately have a positive development on this project.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u35	Minister, you have taken credit too, so please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u36	I'll be brief. I'll say a word. We will soon have a result, and I thank my colleague, Mr Georgioda, for his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u37	I'm glad. We are closing the first cycle of questions addressed to the Minister Panagiotis Lafazanis with a timely question, and a question of two young people - and, in my opinion, excellent colleagues from the Potami, Mr Nikolaos Orphanou first and Mr George Amyras then. The fifth will be discussed under number 231/18-5-2015 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the River Mr. Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the restoration of injustice for PV owners. Mr. Orphane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your good words. Minister, the issue we asked you to answer is well known to you, because SYRIZA and as a opposition had dealt with - and quite rightly - with this and had supported it. These are small-scale photovoltaic housing investors, who have been subjected to a commonly acknowledged injustice for several years, without having found any temporary solution for them. The programme, which started in 2009, was directed to home consumers and micro-enterprises. Under the programme, the contract signed by the user with PPC was all the electricity produced by PV domestic photovoltaic systems to be channelled to its network and the user paid on the basis of an agreed sale price guaranteed for twenty-five years. Despite, of course, the initial enthusiasm and the response made by the citizens to support the programme, which was also in the context of a large campaign to reconcile citizens with alternative energy sources, the HYPEKA continued to reduce the guaranteed sales price for electricity up to 40% with n. 4254, which is also known as the new deal, unilaterally violating the signed contracts and the parallel price indexation. This, of course, meant that the owners of PV roofs, who had invested life savings, could no longer repay the instalments of loans they received for their installation. The official justification at that time for the unfair haircut of the guaranteed electricity price was that the huge deficit of the special account for renewable energy needs to be zeroed. But you know very well that n. 4254/2014, the most famous new deal, as regards at least price haircuts and the abolition of indexation, is unconstitutional and against the European Convention on Human Rights, which was confirmed at the time by the Scientific Legal Service of the Parliament. At the same time, of course, SYRIZA - I repeat, quite rightly and well - as opposition to the law debate had voted against him both at the outset and in writing. When you met recently with the representatives of the household photovoltaics you asked for time, which you identified in about one month, to be informed, to draw up a plan for the definitive settlement of the distortions of the special RES account. For all the above, I ask you: What is the plan you are launching and what solutions do you plan for alleviating these people? And, secondly, the cost of restoring injustice is estimated at about 30 to 40 million euros. Where will the money be found to solve this problem definitively? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, my colleague raises an existing problem for one of our fellow citizens who have been tested by the Memorandum and Memorandum Decisions. For all these laws to which you refer and which made a great haircut on the incomes and revenues that had been established for all these people who entered the activity of PV roofs are memorandum laws and Memorandum decisions. We have actually denounced them because they were unfair and in any case changed the landscape and context on which some have decided. They were told some things and then saw that they were in a very unfavourable situation, especially those who, in order to develop this activity on their roofs with photovoltaics, had to borrow. Today we are facing a major problem, which we fully recognise. One of the first moves I made at the Ministry was to meet the representatives of the PV roof and to develop a very substantial discussion. At this time we are trying to relieve all those who have developed small and medium-sized activities in renewable energy sources, particularly in the PVs, of course, and with special attention to those who have photovoltaic housing, because these people are households with little activity, many of whom have tried to save and a small, booster, additional income, which they seem not to have at the moment. Those who have been borrowed are at risk of losing their assets. We are working on this plan right now, with the aim of reducing the overall burden on those who have small and medium-sized activities in photovoltaics and especially on roof photovoltaics. I'm not in a position right now to announce a complete plan. But it is our direction, and I believe that we will soon be able to complete a programme of relief for all these people, who really need support. It needs a redistribution, large and brave redistribution of those who benefit from the RES, from the PVs, and are the large companies, the large business groups, who earn a great deal from this activity. There is a need for a great reallocation to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises and especially the smaller ones of them from the point of view of their income. That is our logic, this is our direction, along with many others that, of course, need to be done, so that the space of energy is relieved of the robbery behaviour of great private interests that continue to break the space, and these interests need to be affected and affected in a planned and planned manner, to the benefit of consumers as a whole and to the reduction of energy costs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Acharnon Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Orphane, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I do not doubt that you are looking at this and that you are concerned. That's a fact. I'm asking you if there's a timeline. The citizens who invested are the only ones who did not win if we calculate that the banks they borrowed, the State that received VAT, the German, mostly, companies that supplied the equipment. All of them won. Is there a timeline for a solution? Do you intend to relieve them of the reduction of VAT by introducing a tax-free tax on their facilitation towards their debts to the banks? Shouldn't the banks also bear a portion of the burden? You spoke of a Memorandum Policy. I'll agree, but it wasn't just that, there was a bad design. Mr Petrakos knows, he has made too many speeches and he is also an expert on the subject. I'm glad he's here and he's listening. So there was a bad design. There was no production limit. The small producers came in and then both the big companies invaded and the system blew off. Of course, in all of this, there is also an additional issue of substance, which is the same energy. This was supposed to be a step forward towards the notorious self-production. Isn't it a step towards self-production? Do we close this way? It's a big deal. What are we doing in terms of our alternative energy potential? Are we just going to afford it? All right, to hurt the interests that are speculating against the state and the citizens - clearly, we are with you, we are - but from there and beyond energy where the thing is going? But does self-production not benefit us, because then the citizen will not pay in the state what the state needs, so the state will not be able to reap and perpetuate this vicious circle? And, of course, how, at last, can the citizen be protected that unfortunately makes the mistake of trusting the Greek state over time? So he never escapes his economic dependence? That is what I would like to ask you: For a timeframe, if there is any intention of banks taking part, and what will happen with the tax and financial relief of small owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u43	The reason is the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u44	I am pleased with your remarks because, if I did them, I would be regarded as a populist of the worst form and a man of other times. And I've been designated by you, when I'm making such gatherings, unfortunately, and I'm becoming a target.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u45	In many directions, however, not one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u46	We're all set, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u47	I say it in a good mood. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u48	A little sense of humor! It's Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u49	I agree with most of what you said. It's in the right direction. Indeed, the RES did not benefit as much as the Greek economy and national energy policy should, both in terms of clean energy and of reducing energy costs. Unfortunately, too many foreign interests have benefited. Unfortunately, the banks have greatly benefited. Unfortunately, a lot of people have been captured with their RES economies, which is now facing great problems and great dead ends. This is the situation with the photovoltaic roofs, especially for those who are poorer and who have invested their few economies in this activity. Indeed, a very substantial effort is needed at this time to strengthen them. I also agree that we have not only had memorial policies, but also a disgraceful customer policy in the area of renewable energy sources, from which, at the end of the day, the major business initiatives, which are currently gaining unnecessaryly and without risk from this activity, have finally benefited. I am sorry, but I am not in a position at this time to say a very specific timetable. I would like to see it very much, but it is so difficult and complex that every move we have to make must be designed very well and taken into account all the factors which play a role. They are interests here - I mean the interests of the Greek economy and energy policy - which we have to balance, so that we have a positive result. But we are working - I assure you - very systematically and I hope that we will have positive developments towards the end of the summer. That's our agony. In the Ministry we do nothing but this planning, because we know that it depends to a large extent on the way out of the crisis. If we cannot support energy activities right now at less cost and with cleaner energy, we cannot have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u50	Series is the third with number 827-16-3-2015 question by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning Greece's participation in European policies to reduce pollutants, both from the new and existing lignite plants. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, the issue I shall raise today, I have raised it again with a written question to you, of course, to get here on 16 March, and on your first participation as Minister in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which you have come to tell us about a number of issues. At the time, I remember, you had shown a little surprise about the content of the question I had put to you, and I would say that I had received it as a positive surprise. These days, then, we are concluding a tough negotiation between Greece's technical scales and the respective scales of the national delegations of other European countries. The result of this negotiation will be much judged in the field of Greeks' lives for the coming years, the environment, public health. I am not referring, of course, to the negotiation with the Brussels Group on the Greek side, but to another sort of negotiation, which all Europeans have been sitting on a table to agree on the limits of the emissions of pollutants from the coal plants, these 'broken' plants, that is to say, using 'broken' fuel. Greece in this case is the cruelty of the case. The picture of the negotiation that is taking place in this area of the environment is inversely proportional to what we are monitoring at the Brussels Group. Why? Because here we have the following question: the Greek delegation is composed of seven people. The six come from PPC - representatives of PPC - and one of PPC's companies "ELLENICA PETRELAY". In other words, two of the main environmental polluters are those charged by the Greek Government as if they were going to negotiate how polluting they would. So also from the information we see in the process of this debate, which is under the heading 'Seville Process', we see that the representatives of the Greek side are opposed to increasing the maximum permitted emissions of pollutants. Also, they stand for the application of stricter limits on both sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, but also mercury. Also, they have embedded the legs and do not accept the obligation to constant checks, the famous monitoring for mercury, at least, and the other emitted pollutants. I conclude, Minister, and I ask you: do you not see, in your view, a conflict of interest in the face of the people who are the national delegation? Secondly, we say in substance that we do not want to increase the maximum emission limit for pollutants, because both Ptolemaide 5 that comes, and several other large units of Ptolemaide emitted below the 42% limit in terms of energy efficiency. Yes, I know that we in Greece have powdered lignite, we do not have the high-quality lignite that the northern countries have. I also understand that PPC cannot spend the next day in another era and clearly has a key role in the national economy. However, should public health and environmental protection not have a key role to play in our minds? I end up with the questions. I will also present to you some of the elements of a study by GREENPESE, which followed the methodology of the European Environment Agency, according to which in Greece we have every year a thousand early deaths from the contaminated, polluted, poor air quality and at least two hundred thousand children a year, twelve to sixteen years old, suffering from bronchitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Amyras, please, finish it up. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u53	I shall conclude, Mr President. So my questions are as follows: I would ask you, but now maybe time has passed if you were going to replace this national delegation. Is this or is it going to be instructed to review existing, optimal procedures and tacticals, as regards the electrical efficiency of our own units and the maximum emission concentration of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide? Thank you very much. And I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u54	But I hope, within time, that your dentext. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I will not agree, Mr Amyras, when large businesses such as PPC and ELPE call them 'pollutant enterprises'. Of course, they also emit pollutants from PPC and ELPEs, but they are large businesses, which offer a large amount of development work, a social project and are businesses that support our economy. We therefore need to surround them with greater respect and, I would say, more support. Of course, they have problems both with PPC and ELPE and, of course, we need to look at the issue of pollutants with the greatest possible sensitivity. That is our direction and our policy. However, this has nothing to do with the support we give to the Public Power Corporation and its prospects and, of course, the ELPEs and their role in our energy base. As far as the Seville Process is concerned, there is no direct political representation. The government is not represented at political level. The committees there are technical committees, which contribute with technical and scientific criteria to the formulation of the relevant best available techniques policies. To send representatives of both PPC and ELPE there is no bad thing when we discuss issues relating to these activities for which there is specialty in these companies. When we discuss issues about large combustion plants and the techniques to be applied to reduce pollutants, specialist PPC executives and ELPEs can make a significant contribution. I agree, of course, that they cannot only be PPC and ELPE strains. That is why we, as of 4 May, have set in this committee specialising officials from our Ministry, so that there is a balance in the relevant delegation in Greece, which, of course, is not a permanent delegation. It's ad hoc. Depending on the subject, they go and represent our country, equivalent technicians. So we made this move, to have a balance and, in any case, the Technical Services are recommended, but decisions are also taken with the government's participation. Our delegation there does not play this role, that is to say, 'how to contain situations in order to emit more and more pollutants and to pollute the atmosphere'. No, we're not the bad guys against the environment in our representation in Seville. I'd say the opposite. We are making a very systematic effort to ensure maximum environmental protection, clean energy and clean atmosphere. That is the direction that our delegations have here. Of course, however, we cannot overlook the peculiarities of our country. You talked about the 42% yield on lignite. Sure. However, Greece, as you know, has special situations, such as high temperatures, lower lignite quality, which you have also said, and others that do not allow this 42% limit to be kept, although we are not talking about a limit. We are talking about guidelines. There's no such limit. When Ptolemais 5 has 41.5% it's not out of frames and specifications. It is foreseen by the Seville Process and this 41.5% price is compatible for the operation of the Ptolemais 5 plant. In other words, we are not out of predictions, except for design, programs and directions in Seville. From there, of course, I must tell you that Ptolemais 5 is a necessary unit for our energy system and the country's energy balance and security. Of course, we understand that it is a lignite plant, but it is not easy to throw the lignite at the edge of our country and in our energy mix. That would be a very big mistake and would give a very large cost - even greater cost - to our energy and, of course, would not offer us energy security. Because, as you can see, lignite gives energy security to our entire system, because the RES system has fluctuations, which must be reflected by energy units that give stability and electricity supply at all times. This is what lignite is doing in our country, and that is why it is necessary and necessary for the Ptolemais plant, which, as I said, is within the specifications. So we are moving, trying for the best, the potential and the conditions, of course, of the Greek economy, and we will continue this effort with greater intensity and greater sensitivity. I believe that the results will be positive and the role of our delegation in Seville is recognised as a role with a positive contribution across the European framework. There is no bad conception of our delegation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u56	You have a second language, Minister. Thank you. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, to some extent I will disagree with you that representation is not of a political nature, since the majority of members belong to PPC, PPC expresses a governmental policy, appointed by the government of administration, therefore has instructions. So the policy clearly exists and to a maximum extent. And since we are talking about politics, I wanted to ask you, because I have seen an open letter sent by GREENPEACE on the Seville Process, and I am surprised that it is written - you will probably tell us if it is true - that the Head of Directorate-General - says GREENPEACE - on the Environment of the European Commission Carl Falkenberg has sent a letter to the Ministry of the Environment - and I ask if you have received such a letter - by stressing that the national delegations should represent the positions of governments and not the interests of third parties. First, if you'd like, let us know about this, if you've received such a letter. In relation to the polluting activities of PPC and ELPE, no one is, of course, ignoring - I have already pointed it out in my prototype - the important economic role that these two companies have played, and not just the energy hub. Not a conversation. It is a part of our energy ammunition in the biennial or whatever it takes to keep the fossil fuel we have on our ground. As far as pollution is concerned, however, I shall disagree with you, because PPC's large lignite station in Ammonium, for example, is transmitting, with average six-year measurements, twice as much sulphur dioxide as permitted. Similarly, Ammonium emits three times more sulphur dioxide. And I've got a lot of other evidence like that. So the question we need to hear and to which we are waiting for your position - beyond generality, that of course we are interested in the environment and we must defend it, and so on. - are practically how your environmental concern is reflected in the directives you have given to the national delegation? We'll see about that, when the toxic fire in Aspropyrgos is almost hot, in this illegal one, after all, without permission, recycling plant. I would also like to ask here, in order to show the importance of the environment, which concerns them all, rich, poor, poorer or more privileged - because we breathe the same air in Lefkanopedia - if the Seveso II Directive of the European Commission has been applied since this accident, both from you and from the region. I will not tell you what the directive provides for, but only one of its basics, the early warning and information to the public about accidents, such as the one we have experienced. Is that a time-consuming update? I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we would like, however, since we have found you here, Minister, at some point in the committee, to have a clear debate on energy issues, because the deadlines are over. We now have Article 13, which establishes a public company for energy issues, without information, without documentation, and we have a lot of issues we would like to discuss with you. I'm filing the information I mentioned about the Minutes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u58	Mr Amyras, in your last two questions, of course, if the Minister is willing to reply, because it is Mr Chironis who is going to come to Parliament later. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u59	First of all, I think we should be a little careful, and I am referring to all of us. We didn't have a Seveso type accident at Aspropyrgos. Of course, it was a tragedy, but it was a different kind of accident, Seveso. From there on, of course, there has been timely and valid information and it has been widely communicated by both the region and the municipalities and by the relevant ministries. We can say with satisfaction, I would say, that very quickly a difficult fire in extremely unfavourable and prototype situations, I would say, within a few days it has been completely extinguished. Right now we have full and absolute fire suppression. Of course, it follows a difficult process, as difficult and more painful as the suppression, the restoration of space and the side effects and the consequences that this accident had in the surrounding area, but also in the area itself. From there on, our delegation in Seville is certainly being sent with government approval. This does not mean, however, that this delegation is a strong policy delegation. This thing can't be done. You can't send me, for example, to Seville, because I'm dealing with politics and I have some sensualities to talk about such sensitive and technical issues. Our delegation there must have technical and scientific documentation and completeness, so that what it says can stand and be documented. That is the criterion of the delegation. Its names, as you know, are not disclosed because this is not permitted by the relevant Regulation of the European Commission. No names may be disclosed. The composition of the delegation I told you that we were trying to change it. We have taken a first step in order to have a mixture of the ministry's service actors, but with technical and scientific credibility and business experts on a presumption of publicity, who have the capacity to contribute to the results and conclusions to be drawn. Our aim and direction is to reduce pollution from all polluting industries and to have a cleaner industrial activity and industrial production. This is our direction. These are our instructions. Of course, however, we are also taking into account the particular circumstances of our country, because we cannot stir up and stop a lignite group, because it says it is the 42 limit. The 'limit' is in introductory form, because I have explained to you that there is no 'limit' and we have 41,5. It can't be, because we have special conditions. This 41.5, as I told you, is not incompatible with the Seville Framework. It is foreseen and considered to be compatible because the high temperatures of our country are taken into account, the low yield of domestic lignite and other factors, which help to reduce this threshold, as you can see, in terms of our own lignite plants. We are therefore completely in line with the standards. We support an environmental policy and, of course, support a national energy policy, which, I think, is moving in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u60	We're done with Mr. Panagiotis Lafazani. Before you go, Minister, I think you will agree to the word "match" that you said about Aspropyrgos to put it in the Minutes in introductory form.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u61	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u62	Because the finding hasn't come out, so we can see if it was an accident or arson and if it was arson, where it came from.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u63	Oh, if it was criminal energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u64	Therefore, the word "accident" will be in introductory form.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u65	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, because in most questions you have been extremely clear, in others you have shown good intention and will be awaited by colleagues. We are now entering the circle of topical questions, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Evangelos Apostolos. The second question will be discussed under number 310/2-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Kasapidis, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the protection of Greek honey in the European Union. I, George, thought you were only about flowers, about honey. Mr. Kasapidis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I happen to be myself, a beekeeper and a beekeeper, so from within the profession and from the activity, Minister, I would like to raise the matter for the third time - the two previous I raised this issue to your predecessors - amending European Regulation 111, which said that if honey is on the market, there should be compulsory labelling if it contains components of mutated plants, either pollen or nectar. And while the Prosecutor of the European Court of Justice in 2011 imposed this mandatory marking on the European market, with an amendment that passed in 2014 by the European Parliament's Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, by the European Parliament's plenary on 16-4/2014 and by the Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers on trade issues on 8-5-2014 - which means that they involved two, three Greek Ministers and accepted this amendment - it is unfortunately not compulsory, Mr President, and Minister, that marking on honey, although this may contain mutated pollen and extended nectar of mutated plants. What does that mean? It means that while we in Greece do not allow the cultivation of the mutant, unfortunately the importation of such products from countries such as China, Argentina, Australia, Canada, America, which are full of such crops, allows the import of such a honey that is definitely filled with mutated raw material, without labelling on the market. This, Minister, if it is not unfair for Greek producers who are trying to make the best honey in the world and accept this unfair competition, what is it? If it is not immoral above all for consumers, who must know whether what they buy is immaterial, natural and free of mutated ingredients of products, what is it? And if this does not directly affect the interests, the character and the identity of our country, characterised by the greatest biodiversity in this globe, what is it? On this issue, Minister, I would also like your position, today's government, since I told you that, unfortunately, your predecessors did not deal with this part in defending our country's interests. I would like you to tell us clearly, first of all, what your intentions in protecting domestic production are and, secondly, what you intend to do to the institutions of the European Union in order to reverse this adverse decision, not only for Greek producers but also for Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u69	My dear colleague, let us make one thing clear at the outset, that our Ministry makes systematic checks on all seeds derived from plant species in other countries which have genetically modified varieties and are cultivated. And most of all why? To avoid the release into the environment of conventional seeds containing impurities with genetically modified feed, such as maize, rape, oilseed rape, beet, etc., which are dangerous in other regions in terms of the participation of genetically modified organisms. And we do this, for every Community amendment - you know that in this regulation - which gives Member States the opportunity. We are using as our basic argument to tackle this situation, the quality of our products. One argument that certainly binds, I would say, ideally with Greek beekeeping. Indeed, the relevant directive and the regulation you mentioned does not make it compulsory for the presence of genetically modified pollen to be labelled in honey when it has a 0.9% rate or technically not to prevent the presence of pollen. We and in this case take the necessary steps to avoid the inadvertent presence of genetically modified organisms in honey. Of course, you know that especially for honey there is a check on all products of animal origin imported into our country in the special laboratories that exist for veterinary and health control. There is applicable legislation 4235/2014, where fines are imposed for non-compliance with existing legislation. And of course, you know that particularly from the point of view of the FET is being checked. Indeed, at the meeting yesterday, we referred to the need for the controls to be more responsible and, in particular, for the taking up of more responsibilities on the part of the FIFG in this regard. Of course, as you yourself mentioned, there is also a very big problem with regard to fraud, fraud and, above all, the great problem of Hellenism. It is an issue that will certainly be addressed through coordinated efforts, which reaches the point in the corresponding programmes developed by the European Union to deal with the illusion that we have a particular involvement that is directly related to the protection of Greek honey, a honey which everyone recognises as a quality - I would say - a situation which makes it unique throughout the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I understand the intentions of the Minister to help and help the Greek Federation of Beekeepers in demand, so that controls can be carried out in our country to prevent the importation of such products. However, I would like to submit to the House details of honey imports following the application of the amendment to the regulation. While imports of honey in our country by 2012 did not exceed EUR 5 million - and this is unacceptable for a country that is leading world production in quality honey - unfortunately in 2013, they have escalated over EUR 9 million. In other words, we had an extra 4-5 million imports in 2013 and I don't know where they are in 2014. That's why, Minister? Because they have found the opportunity for the big importers to bring cheap honey produced in countries that are allowed to cultivate mutant plants and it is very efficient to produce such a product that they call honey there, but it is not honey, so that it directly affects Greek production and also to insult Greek consumers, and much more to put health at risk because we do not even know whether these mutants have a negative effect on the health of consumers. That'll show the depth of time, we still don't have safe data. Mr President, I would like to highlight the way these interests have been approached and they have imposed this amendment. While until the 2001 regulation, which even in 2011 the Prosecutor of the European Court of Justice imposed compulsory labelling of bees that have mutated components, such as pollen, considered pollen as an ingredient, unfortunately these interests imposed that pollen should be recorded as a natural element, that is to say, as if it came out of the bee's body along with the other kind of sugars that it gets from the nectar and put it out into the shell as a natural element, which is not scientifically valid. There's been a boom. It is an ingredient that comes in the hive with the action of the bee and not through the nectar, which are sugars converted into honey eventually, within the hive with the work of the bee. So this immorality has unfortunately not been dealt with effectively, Minister, by your predecessors. I insist because I have pointed this out to your predecessors in duplicate. Unfortunately, your predecessors, and other ministries, in the Council of Ministers, in the Council of Health Council, did not raise this issue, as it is, on the scientific and moral basis, and now, Mr Minister, you are calling on to correct this immorality at European level. That is why I told you to make it clear to us what you intend to do so that this distortion of scientific and moral truth can finally restore it for the benefit of both producers and consumers and of reality in Europe. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u72	I assume that you mean European immorality - because it is respected in practice - and not in individuals. So European immorality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u74	They're the same interests that feta, they want to give it to another ten, yoghurt to another 20, and now they're going to honey. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, the problem of Greekization, particularly in honey, is very serious. And, indeed, the evidence that my colleague has mentioned is in fact correcting. We will step up efforts and call on the beekeepers in particular to help us themselves, because they know and experience a situation more than anyone involved in the field. What are we doing now in Europe? In the margins of the Agriculture Council, you realise that the problems that are going through are too much. Especially in rural areas, only our involvement with fines and charges creates a huge burden on us in this direction. Nevertheless, we have taken the initiative and met with the Hungarian Minister for Agriculture with a view to cooperating between the two countries in order to ensure that agriculture is free from genetically modified organisms. We are also going to bring this to the Agriculture Council, since we also have other contributions to it. And, of course, we agreed within all the fora, international and European, to raise this issue, because the proposal and the regulation really start to open up the issue of import. But at the same time, you know, we constantly meet reports of modern agricultural techniques. And you know, Mr President, behind these modern techniques such procedures are hidden. We, of course, will take too many initiatives. We will mainly insist on this for the simple reason that in our country the quality status of our agricultural products is of course linked to this particular purity. So there is one more reason, because this is an added value to our products, especially to honey, which we must defend. We are, however, going to make other moves, such as, for example, you know particularly about protein plants - and I mean feed - the inability to meet the needs of livestock leads us to import soybeans of more than EUR 500 million a year and it is a product where of course the suspicions of genetic mutants are too high. So, if we in this direction reintroduce our own protein plants for feed, beans and all that, do you realize that we are also responding to this big problem - suspicion, say it? - and yet, it's an approach too serious. So we must ensure these conditions from our side, and of course, through this information, always highlight the added value of the quality status of our agriculture. Dear colleague, we'll be in touch. And when these conditions are created, you can be sure that there will also be a specific proposal within the Council of Ministers to amend the regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u76	Minister, before we go to the next topical question, I give you an idea. I also think that an informal committee from the Greek Parliament's parties along with a MEP from each of the European Parliament's parties - who have to tell them why this is a very specific issue - can also intervene within the European Parliament. It's not that they're doing it negligently, it's very specialized. You should invite them to the Ministry, Minister, Greek Members and Members of Parliament, and to act together, in my view. I'm sorry about the non-regulatory intervention. Before I give the floor to Mr Graggios, I would like to say this at the request of the Minister, but because they are in the context of the Rules of Procedure: the Questions Nos 301 and 311 of the Members, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos of PASOK and Mrs Fotinis Arabatzi from New Democracy to Mr Apostle, who refer to the same subject, will be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, by applying the provision in Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure of this House. This practically means that Mrs Arabatzi will speak for two minutes, Mr Constantopoulos two minutes, the Minister will speak for six minutes to answer. Then Mrs Arabatzi and Mr Constantopoulos will speak for three minutes and six minutes the Minister will speak. The third question will then be discussed under number 291/29-5-2015 of the First Cycle of the MEP from the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Fotio Grassikos to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the payment of compensation to farmers from the Organisation for Payments and Control of Community Aid for Guidance and Guarantee (OPEKEPE) Macedonia - Thrace. To my colleague, the Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Grayo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after the fund reserves of the Community Guidance and Guarantee Fund - in other words, the well-known OPEKEPE, from the Greek State - are collected in order to obtain the necessary sums that will continue to serve the country's Memorandum Responsibilities, the OPEKEPE of Macedonia - Thrace states that it is impossible to pay farmers compensation that they receive. In particular, they state that despite the timely submission of their requests for the activation of the single payment entitlements and the lodging of all the supporting documents necessary to obtain the compensatory allowances in May of last year, today, a whole year after that, they remain unpaid. The payment of these allowances in the long term is vital to the viability of the winter farmers who have suffered a total destruction of their livestock due to their loss of force majeure, and with this money they would go ahead with the restoration of this loss. You are in a position, Minister, to determine on the one hand the exact date on which the OPEKEPE reserves will be restored and, on the other hand, the date on which farmers receive the compensation they receive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u78	I too, Mr Colleague, and you were brief. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, for the compensation of farmers, a total appropriation has been approved for the 2014 balancing compensation, how much - a hundred million euros credit. Payments from the OPEKEPE, which will be completed - so provided - by the end of 2015, and any loose ends of the previous years, are paid. The amount of aid will be paid to each beneficiary as provided for in the implementing decisions and, of course, it shall always be determined in relation to the size of the holding and at the same time to the grassland exploited. To date, payments totalling EUR 44,000,000 have been made in some fifty-two thousand beneficiaries. As far as the Region of Central Macedonia is concerned, a total of fourteen thousand nineteen hundred applicants have already been paid ten thousand beneficiaries with an overall amount of 11. EUR 000. The next assessment will examine the objections raised by four thousand eight hundred rejected. I am telling you this number to see what has happened with the allocations of the eligible and what huge problems have been created, which we pay as fines. These, however, are 2014. You understand that until all these objections are examined, we are making an effort. We have a programming. I am telling you that we have paid both 2008 and 2010, now, at the beginning of June with the beginning of July. In addition, there are loose ends 2011 and 2013. There is the issue of the clearing of 2014 in relation to the 2013 balancing. All of this we believe that by the end of the year we will be done with it. We have already paid at the beginning of June what is known as Article 68 which the farmers know about and which relates to additional aid of over eighteen million. Already paid the epizootics, the consequences, the damage they had from zoonoses until the end of 2014. We have scheduled until autumn 4.5 million euros for the revitalization of the animal population. Mr Colleagues, we are really making a great effort to make payments properly. I told you before, if there are delays, there are due to the problems that we have inherited, and we are really making a great effort, which I will tell you in my second language, to deal with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u80	Mr Grazis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u81	I understand, Minister, that the previous governments have caused you many problems, and if things are as you say and trying to solve them, it has good. However, I must inform you that many people have contacted us, who have huge sustainability problems. They won't last until the end of 2015. Every day he passes, it's a huge problem for them. There is another question here, because it is not just the compensation mentioned above. They shall waive the allowances for organic livestock from 2012, 2013, 2014, strengthening and maintaining indigenous and improved debts in 2012, 2013 and 2014 and again the second instalment of the special oil tax. I would like to say that once there have been delays, when will the next ones be paid, the ones that have been pending for many years? And we must also consider the human factor, because we are not just talking about numbers that will be restored, we are talking about people behind them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u83	I told you that the loose ends from 2008, in 2009 until 2013, will be paid by July and we will be done. From there on, as far as the balancing is concerned, the remainder of 2014 until the end of the year, in autumn, we believe that we will have completed. There, of course, is the big question of whether the objections raised will be accepted in their entirety. It's an open matter. I cannot tell you why there are conditions. However, I would also like to answer a question you raised in your question concerning the use of the OPEKEPE available. Since you are constantly repeating a view of the cash facility that was made by transferring part of the assets, EUR 260,000,000 of OPECE to the Bank of Greece, I have the following to say that this money was parked in a bank institution for six to seven years, with a 0% interest rate. The last semester was 0.3%. And what did we do? We took that money, put it with 2.3% and 2.4% repos, and at any time we can look for them. But I want to make it clear that this money cannot be used for any purpose other than serving the Rural Development Programme. That is why this money was given as an advance, Mr President. And along the way, once the program has been completed - it has not been completed, end 2015 is completed - and the whole program is being absorbed, then these are not returned and are being used normally for payment. If, however, the programme is not completed - because we have a huge problem of absorption of the Rural Development Programme and we are making a great effort - then they are coming back. But when? When the program is completed, i.e. ending in 2015. And I insist that they cannot be made available for another purpose. So why is this transfer causing us inability to pay? Why is it that OPECE's money is being used at the expense of rural activities, to the detriment of farmers? I can barely repeat that, once again, this transport will help rural areas by offering and making better use of its available. Mr President, for us livestock is indeed this activity through which the rural area of mountainous and semi-urban areas can survive. It's a big bet, and I think we're gonna win it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u84	Mr Minister, I, as a Greek MEP and a citizen, wish you, and after 30 July, you can say the same thing about the OPEKEPE available. The following are two common topical questions: The sixth question, under number 301/2-2015, of the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, from the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the implementation of the new joint ministerial decision on the distribution of pastures to farmers in the country and the second question under number 311/2-2015, first question of the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis, Minister for Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the injustices resulting from the unequal distribution of pastures in accordance with the Joint Ministerial Resolution of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will respond as, according to my fellow Members, there are complaints and problems with regard to this distribution. Mr. Constantopoulos, because Mrs. Arapatzi is the only woman I've asked today, and it is known that the Aetolokarnas you are knights, to take the first floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u85	I would like Mrs Maij-Weggen to take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u86	Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President, and my colleague for the concession. Mr Minister, we are heading for mid-June and unfortunately even today the pencils remain down in relation to the drafting of temporary grazing management plans. No, they're not just written, as you had to do and work for the finals, but they haven't even started. This is a dangerous delay - the designation is not mine, it is the first president of the TEK working group, Mr Peverettos, who made this designation - which is likely to make your handling fatal for Greek livestock as far as the new programming period 2015-2020 is concerned. This is the case, Minister, because with this delay you are deceiving and flying in the trash, in fact a successful negotiation of the previous government for the new definition of pastures, which for the first time, Mr Minister, and to save the fines, which I am sure you will mention, involves - for the first time I repeat - the eligible pastures - that is to say, those who give money to farmers - the woody, vulgar and torched areas, that is to say, the geography of the Greek territory with its specific characteristics, increasing impressively and above all the Community's pastures. Of course, OPEKEPE has not yet, unfortunately, captured these additional areas, has not taken capitalised on this national success, as the management plans, which would, on your own responsibility, clearly, fairly and rationally, still remain at the level of the endless discussions. As if that were not enough, you come with a common ministerial decision at the last minute to define arbitrary, unfair and unintentional rates that the farmer, for example, of central Macedonia with a hundred animals, will receive forty-eight acres, i.e. rights, while the farmers of Crete for the same animals will receive, for example, a hundred thirteen and the farmers of Central Greece ninety. In other words, Minister, unprepared and unprepared to give legal foundation to a blatant injustice separating the farmers into a, b, c category. When does that happen? This year, at a post office on rights, since what emerges this year, Minister, on rights - good or bad - will follow the farmer for the next six years by 2020. You ask farmers to make IAC declarations in 2015 on the basis of this arbitrary joint ministerial decision, when you are committed, Minister, with your statements - I remind you in the "NAYTTERVORIC" newspaper in February 2015 - that we will have the provisional management plans in time, on the basis of which the IAC declarations will be made. In what sense, then, I ask you, have you made this clearly unequal distribution and how will you ensure to the livestock world throughout the country that it will not lose its rights for the survival of its holding and what will this joint ministerial decision have to do with the compensatory programmes and rural development programmes that run from previous years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, eighteen students and students and five educational attendants from the Plateos Imathia Municipal School. The Greek Parliament welcomes you and wishes you to have a good time. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Constantopoulos, at the appropriate time, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u89	Minister, with the separation of the country into three regions - areas for the allocation of single payment entitlements 2015-2020, grazing was a separate area to support the country's livestock farming. In order to facilitate the implementation of the new CAP, the Community definition of pastures has improved and was adopted a year ago for this reason, which also addressed the issue of the definition and management of pastures. In this context, the current political leadership of the Ministry has changed its direction. He ignored or circumvented the farmers and their bodies and unilaterally signed a new JAPD, number 873/55993, thus creating a great upset among farmers. This encourages producers in spatial units with greater adequacy of eligible areas. This results, on the one hand, in disparities between farmers in the country, and, on the other, in an unequal distribution of rights for final aid. There is no provision for the possibility of joining the eligible areas which are horrific, vulnerable and woody, for example in my prefecture, in my constituency, in my constituency, in Itolo-Carnania, for the 3⁄4 of pastures to stay out. It is also laid down that pastures are allocated to farmers participating in measures of the Agricultural Development Programme of Greece. This means that a thousand hundred farmers are qualified, while the rest of them possessing animal units that exceed ten and a half thousand are excluded. At the same time, the factor of 5,27 acres per animal unit provided for by the laws of Attica, Evrytania, Evrytania, Evia, Fhotidis and Fokida overturns the logic of the convergence of rights in livestock farming. After that, Minister, I ask you: What is the plan to implement the process of distributing pastures from the regions and municipalities? How does the Ministry intend to support the moving farmers? How does the Ministry intend to deal with the inequality created and protect farmers, especially my county, but also other counties, when pastures constitute an invaluable resource for development? What is the timetable for drawing up the management plans for grazing - temporarily and definitively - provided for by the law? Do you intend to entrust the drafting of the management plans to regional units which have requested it, such as my prefecture, Ioannina, who cooperated with cooperatives and other bodies, will contribute to their integration with the main aim of removing the deadlocks? Finally, Minister, what commitment does the Ministry make to payments to organic livestock in 2012, 2013, 2014 and in particular to what commitments to payments in rare breeds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u90	Minister, you have the floor for six minutes. You'll do us a big favor if you gather what you have to say in less minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u91	I'm gonna be a little more broke, so I'm gonna need less time. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think you will disagree when I tell you what we have suffered and what we have found in the Ministry, because we need to make this clear. Our country in recent years has been charged with improper use of pastures, which are to the point where the state budget is to be significantly burdened. One of the first decisions I signed with the Ministry of Rural Development was to provide EUR 210 million from the state budget, namely from the Greek citizen, for certain fines that have entered a route to be paid for by us. You understand that if we do not face the situation seriously, it will not just continue and it will deteriorate further. I would like to say to you - because it specifically concerns pastures - that it is not even a week ago - we have had a new fine of 320 million for the management of the pastures from 2008 to 2011. The messages say that for the period 2012-2013-2014, a similar amount comes. Well, you understand. In the face of this situation, what do we do? Should we go ahead with what the European Commission tells us,'send the warnings to farmers and farmers to return the money'? What we particularly wanted to do from our side is to be able at least here and beyond to deal seriously with the big problem. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 450 million a year plus some other micro-credits, which may be more than 500 million a year. What did we do on our side? We said that. That the previous situation will not continue with the irrational use of grazing land. We will streamline the management of pastures and aid. Of course, they have every right to protest against all those who are interested in the area and especially the farmers who are concerned with them. However, this attempt has not been heard by a different and specific proposal. To say that we will generally make a region all over Greece so that there can be so-called justice, do you know where it leads? The one we experienced the previous period. The areas did not reach a Regional Unity, in Serres, for example, "send it to the continent". But that's how we created a problem on the continent. "Take him from Epirus and take him to the Peloponnese." You understand that this created all these situations. An image that did not, I would say, serve the typical part but mainly the essential part. And the essential thing is that these lands will offer what we say meets the need for feed in this particular area. We have therefore brought this joint ministerial decision, bearing in mind the local conditions, the number of animals, the eligible pastures, so that we do not force farmers on these journeys, which have brought the corresponding fines and, of course, trying as far as possible through the territorial units, which have a similarity and a potential, essentially, to neutralise all the previous problems. So we proceeded with this decision. This decision reduces the variations in the extent of grazing land between farmers, without, I repeat, overlooking the particular local circumstances of each region. The provisions of the European Regulations on the eligibility of grazing land are also complied with by this decision in order to avoid the future risk of counting against the country. Unrealistic solutions such as the movement of farmers and flocks are avoided at very long distances from the farm's headquarters. You know that it is compulsory if an eligible herd is charged, some livestock farm, to make use of this area. We are also creating a stock of eligible pastures through this process, mainly in areas with such potential but at the same time there is a request, a desire for young farmers to enter the area. We must have a stock, because how do we cover young people, especially when they want to deal with livestock farming? And, of course, any of the farmers think they are wrong and want more land, they can apply for this in order to deal with their problem. In this process, therefore, we also want regions and municipalities to be particularly involved in the use of eligible areas. I want to make one thing clear to you, that in cases where there are smaller areas, smaller areas, there is no possibility that farmers will be wronged for the simple reason that either two million hectares of declarations or one and a half million hectares of declarations, the amount we are going to take is that and you understand that it will be distributed accordingly. In particular, because you are from two regions which have actually had a major problem in the previous periods, so I would like to tell you that we have made these moves for Ioannina and, of course, we have in our design - I will say them in my dentex - especially for these two regional units to have vertical management plans, so that we can do what will result from the horizontal arrangements for these issues to be rounded up with the specific management plans for these counties so that we do not have the problems we had in the previous period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u92	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u93	It is a big deal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u94	Yeah, but you have another six minutes in your dentistry. Before giving the floor to Mrs Arabatzis and Mr Constantopoulos, I would like, Minister, when the Minutes come, to see whether some phrases should be inserted into the Minutes. As far as I understand it, the Brussels faminers have asked for the money to be paid back by farmers and not by the state budget. They're capable of putting them in prerequisites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, there is a procedure. Other fines due to mismanagement and other charges relating to recovery. When money is given without the European Commission being approved, then we are talking about recoveries. They're obliging us, not that we want it. I told you there's no way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u96	I didn't say it was your fault. Understand my spirit and why I told you. They're capable of putting them in prerequisites. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of what the President has said about fines and where they will be sought, I imagine that you will confirm in your dilemma that they will be charged with the national dossier, that is to say we have to put the respective national contribution. Because you are only talking about fines, no one comes here - and as far as I am concerned under no circumstances - to defend policies that have brought fines. But it would be good to speak with numbers and say that for the period 2007-2014 we had fines for pastures of EUR 321,000 000, while we received about EUR 2.7 billion as single payment. I would also like to say, Minister, that other countries have much improved LPIS systems, such as Portugal, Great Britain and France, which have not had the known problems of the particular morphology of the territory of Greece. He didn't put woody, toasty, porky, and so he took fines, because he used them as pastures, he declared them as pastures, but he didn't have the legal framework to claim that they were legal and legal, so he took fines. And so these countries, with the vast grassland, as you know, Minister, have charge for grassland. Portugal EUR 137 million, Great Britain EUR 83 million and France EUR 52 million. Once again, I repeat that I do not support any policy that imposes fines, but we must say, Minister, that, in fact, the deadlock that has led us to fines for pastures concerning pastures has all the opportunity to use it with the management plans - and the temporary and, of course, definitive ones, until the end of 2015 - for which, at least in your prototype - and I expect you to be very unpopular - you have not finally heard when to draw up and when to finalise the final rights of farmers. You know well what the farmers suffered in 2013 and 2014. An unprepared state machine, that of the OPECE, has cut badly - badly - in order to comply with downward legislation - eligible areas of pasture. There have been exotic regional disparities, unequal distribution, regions on the one hand with excess pasture, regions on the other, such as the Serres Prefecture of which I come from, with terrible shortcomings. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, Minister, there was an amendment, the general number 1419 and a specialist of 236 of 28 April 2014, fourteen Members of the New Democracy - I was among those who signed it - who for the first time put the definition of 'woody and torchy land' in the eligible pastures, the legal areas, which were approved by the European Commission. This definition, Minister, is used in your draft law at the moment and I do not know if the consultation has been completed. So this, Minister, has solved the problem since 2015. So that's the solution we've given you to manage. In order to solve the problem of 2014, as you well know, Minister, a technical solution - that of 2014 - has been implemented at the last minute to remove the unequal distributions and to have a fair and rational redistribution of pastures across Greece, with the result that the unjustified farmers of 2013 and 2014 can get their money. We've reached the point, 95% of farmers get paid. With this CSR that you bring - and you have not explained why it creates these unequal rates - there are areas that will receive spatial units that will only reach a satisfaction rate of 50%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is unacceptable, Minister, that you leave this background and this effort unexploited.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u98	Mrs. Arabatzis, we need to get it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u99	I'm picking up. Now is the opportunity, Minister, and now really it is the momentum to capitalise this negotiation and define the eligible areas once and for all by 2020. This year, the final rights come out for the next six years. No matter what eligible pastures you add after the end of 2015, Minister, it will have no further economic impact. The train will just be gone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u100	But, my colleague, I've given you double the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u101	I know, Mr President, and thank you. You say that on August 15, you will have completed the temporary plans. You understand there will be objections and cross-checks. When are we going to have the final plans? For this, Minister, strikes the timely payment of the single payment, which, as you well know, needs to be made in October 2015 and its repayment in December 2015. I want a commitment, Minister. Will you be able to pay the advance in October 2015 and repay the single payment in December 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Constantopoulos, with similar tolerance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u103	Minister, it is patriotic that a Minister seeks to find solutions to reverse a situation that causes confrontation in the country. And I do not disagree with what you said on the first part. I listened carefully to your answer to Mr Hatzidri's timely question from Potami a few days ago. You pointed out there too that you took account of local conditions. But the social conditions prevailing in the country have not been taken into account, and the pressure the livestock sector has been undergoing in recent years, especially the primary sector, one of the main pillars of development for the Greek rural economy. Its support is a duty for all of us, and it will have multiplier benefits for the production of meat and milk, for balanced regional development, and will of course create new jobs, which is what we all want. We must not forget that while Greece is considered the main rural country, it is still among those countries that import a large proportion of meat. We import about 80% of at least beef, about 70% of pigmeat and about 75% of chicken meat. That's the reality. I transfer the cry of agony from a mountain breeder to Perdikaki: "Finally, support us. Make your promises as a state. Finally, look at us." For this reason, every measure planned by the Ministry must first aim to provide incentives for young farmers and for existing farmers that they can continue, not to leave the industry and to adopt methods that will really help them to improve their production. The uninterrupted and fair payment of aid is a basic instrument of financial support. Minister, it must be ensured in every way that the changes that have been made to this CSR, which I mentioned earlier, do not adversely affect genuine farmers, but rather create an environment that is favourable to the rational use of pastures. It is mature now that all stakeholders sit with you, Minister, to see how you can find solutions to the inequalities that are created. Do not exclude this possibility. Consultation and dialogue must be the norm in problems that arouses the country and especially the primary sector. Just because the country has a great unequal distribution of the availability of pastures and existing livestock, the planning to be done should reduce the major differences in the value of the rights allocated to farmers. That is why, in particular for my county, a county that really has many problems, I call for vertical management plans and a immediate solution to the problems it is currently experiencing. Cooperation and will be needed in an overall national strategy for livestock farming, which will address its development in a holistic manner. The crisis we are experiencing is huge. The loan, as we all know, has come to an end. So we must produce wealth, so that we can redistribute it to the citizens. So there must be support for the Greek farmer at any cost. The mistakes of the past cannot be perpetuated and constitute an obstacle to planning the future. It makes no sense, Minister, to bring the farmers into conflict with each other. It is the state's duty to resolve the problems that are afflicting their industry and not instead to create other problems. The governments, after all, are the continuation of the other and your government is the continuation of the former. Finally, Minister, good farmer and good farmer, it is the informed farmer and the informed farmer, which should be the priority of your ministry and your personal commitment, so that the farmer and the farmer can be informed of the new data and ask him to provide the necessary guarantees and infrastructure. This, of course, is our duty to ensure the future of farmers, the future of the primary sector that will guarantee the future of the country. That's what I'm asking of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u104	Minister, here, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be honest. In all these discussions, I've never heard a proposal. We had the country all as a region. Your problems have been said and I do not need to repeat them. We have tried as far as possible to create spatial units such as this so that there is a uniformity and an equal distribution. It was a great effort. This CIA is the basis on which we will be touching on the next phase that is the drafting of the management plans. At this point, we have, frankly, come to the conclusion that we will be going on the road by the end of July, so that the eligibilitys that will be allocated to this CSR do not cause us any problem and, in any case, that we should put more areas in place. That is what we do in relation to the previous years. At the same time, we have a draft law, which has already been passed in consultation. It is now on its way to the General Accounting Office of the State and will soon be coming to the House. We will discuss this again, so that we can finally draw up a national database so that we can resolve the great problem of the management of grazing grassland in the bicentennial area. We do not see this intervention simply in order to meet the needs. We see this intervention in order to create through pastures and grazing of these lands data such as this, I would say, for anyone who has a livestock farm, he will know that he has a particular area and will manage it. From there on, I want you to understand one thing, that in this process, in fact, there may be problems, but there may be such security from our side, both in amounts and in time, that we will cover them. Everything will be covered, everything will be done for the simple reason, Mrs Arabatzis, that the process of ending the 12th is being completed, which means very simply that we with the management plans that we are starting - for which, of course, we have already found the way to finance, we have decided how they will be done, will be awarded - on 15 and 30 August we will have them in our hands. And having these in our hands, there will be a process of sharing eligibility, and in consultation with the regions and in consultation with the municipalities, but always, bearing in mind that they will have to respond to real circumstances. In this respect, then, do not worry about rights. As also, because there is time to make advances, until the year, in 2015, we have also consulted the Commissioner on what comes out of this procedure - and on the other hand on the other hand, through the CSR, mainly in 2015 - that of the eligibility problems there are, to give us the possibility for September too, with a flexibility, so that we can lock the aid without any loss.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u106	You will give us the relevant documents, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u107	Of course, it's gonna be normal. So you think when we say August 15th, we don't think it might go on August 30th? You know, as we know, what happens in rural areas. So all this needs to be done. What we really want is for you to take part in this effort, because it is about data that will take care of the space for many years. Previously, we were talking about importing soybeans, about genetically modified organisms. How are you going to deal with them when you know that over 500 million euros are paying the time to import suspects of feed? You will deal with it, with the possibility of you, through these grazing lands, having these feeds, such a shepherd that will solve the problem permanently. It's a national section of what we're going to do. And understand that you must all support her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u108	We have supported it, Minister, since April 2014. You weren't with us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u109	We have reached the end of the second cycle of current questions. It is certain, Minister, that the MPs are ready to help the ministers concerned, as long as the ministers call them before the joint ministerial decisions are made and not afterwards. Thank you very much, Mr Apostle. We're going into the third circle...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u110	The Ministry's door is open and for the MPs. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u111	But you're an old MP, and you know what I'm saying. Before, however, we go to the third cycle to say that: The first, with number 295/2-2015, topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the use of water resources in the Plastira and Sokovos lakes, is deleted due to lack of competence. The third under No 293/2-6-2015 topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cashiaris to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties, is deleted due to the impediment of the Minister. The first question by MP Evrytanias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Thomas Kotsias to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the suspension of all permits and projects in progress for the installation of a large number of renewable energy industrial installations (BATURA) in mountainous volumes, rivers even in areas within the Evrytanian network, is deleted as a result of a blockade by the Member. The seventh question under number 178/4-5-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of State concerning the recourse to justice of television stations for decisions of the Minister of State, on the basis of which they were imposed retroactive frequency charges, is deleted as a result of an impediment by the Minister of State. Now we are going to the last section, the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr. Ioannis Tsironis. I have the pleasure of saying that it is the two co-chairmen - not to say co-chairmen and we have a problem - Mr Lykoudi and Mr Lambroulis. The fourth question under number 280/27-5-2015 will be discussed in the first cycle of the F' Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and Athens MP Mr. Spyridon Lykoudi to the Deputy Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr. Tsironi, on the subject of the National Strategic Planning for the reduction of air pollution. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u112	Minister, we have the unfortunate coincidence that today's question is being discussed in a phase where we experience a particularly negative picture in the Lefkanos with the fire from Aspropyrgos. However, it is also becoming more time-consuming. It is well to use this unpleasant coincidence to see what you and we can do as a government, possibly contributing to right initiatives of your own. Minister, about a month ago, they were announced by the National Observatory of Athens and by the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki the results of the measurements of the air pollution of the two largest Greek cities for the winter that passed, while there were comparisons with the previous years. The results are sad, and every year they are aggravated by the special meteorological conditions that we live in, but also because of the economic and human crisis that we are experiencing. As far as existing legislation relating to the pollution of industries and our forests are concerned, we consider that this legislation is either inadequate or inappropriate now and continuously. In other words, the measures that have been taken are fragmentary and inadequate and, in our view, do not concern all the relevant ministries, do not reflect the critical nature of the problem and do not take into account all the proposals that have been submitted by various bodies. I think you know better than me that it is tragic the effects on the health of citizens, the environment and the economy, as you also know very well - and I repeat better than me - that dealing with air pollution as a whole through national planning will bring direct and indirect benefits to health, the environment and the economy. Improved public health, increased labour productivity, reduced spending on health care and the cleaner environment, have a direct impact on improving our overall lives and are judged to be imperative issues. On the basis of all the above and the latest European requirements for air pollution, I would ask you if you are aiming, shaping or working out, a strategic national plan to deal with pollution as a whole and not fragmentally. And if you do - I have no doubt that you may - who is he and when it is expected to be implemented, as well as the implementation of the necessary control, if we proceed to such a perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u113	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President, for your interest in this burning issue. You know I've shared that anguish for many years. In fact, I will submit to the Minutes some more comprehensive information than you say. Of course, I would like to say that on the basis of the data we have from both major cities and on a yearly basis and on a daily basis, things should not be dramatized, because they are probably being improved in total, apart from the problem of winter in particular. The evidence will be submitted to you to be at your disposal. However, you are right that we should not be reassured, despite the fact that we have reductions. Naturally, there is also a clear evidence of external pollution, i.e. from Sahara, since it also contributes to the phenomenon. You'll see in my full details that they refer to parentheses these externally coming particles. But we are not reassured. So let us start focusing on what this national strategic planning would be like. In major cities, it is now an absolute need to talk about rebuilding buildings, so that we have energy adequacy, that we do not have overconsumption of fossil fuels and, of course, of uncontrolled biomass, but above all, that we should install RES and also have an economy. There are programs that we are building for geothermality and others. The problem we have identified is that it occurs in the large cities - because these programmes have been in the past - is that we do not actually have the potential for large projects. And we do not have such a chance, because there is a great deal of fragmentation of ownership and a very blurful codecision framework. For example, if one of the joint owners reacts, there is no possibility for others to impose it, and in particular, it is not always the owners but the tenants who are not likely and have an interest in such reconstruction and investment. This must be legally solved and that is what we will do, so that we have a serious rehab planning. I shall also mention some important figures here. Greece, for example, now spends a thousand and two hundred barrels of imported oil per unit of GDP, while Norway, spending about eight hundred thirty-five and neighbouring Turkey six hundred twenty-nine. Norway, it's a oil producer and it's a northern country. You understand, then, that we are talking about a very wrong design in our town and it is a very serious issue for the car and, as you say, for the oil engine. I must point out here that when I dared to say that diesel is causing a problem - and this is now proven in the major European cities - the journalists have fallen to me to eat that I am going to tax on oil. Tax is not my responsibility. I just pointed out the objective reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u115	And your own suggestion, though, the tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u116	To close, I want to take a second to congratulate our fire department and the district that achieved the miracle. A fire, which was the worst in the history of the firefighting in such a real estate and without the possibility of technical attachment, as the Vice-President of this House has shown us, the Major, the Attica chief, succeeded with water - which was the worst means - in just five days, while we were afraid for a month, to erase it. They deserve our congratulations, to say good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u117	Apart from the government's congratulations, I also think the House's congratulations to the Firehouse once again, as the Minister said. Mr. Lykoudis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u118	Minister, I don't think you're being reassured. After all, I have the impression that your personal route to these issues would never allow you to be reassured. I think, however, that you are a little more optimistic about matters than you should be. What do I mean? You spoke of the image of a better existing atmosphere and climate in Athens and Thessaloniki, in the recent past. I have the impression that this is not exactly the case. In Athens this winter, from the point of view of atmospheric pollution, we spent forty nightmare nights compared with twenty-five, twenty-three-four last winter, last winter. Don't look at them we didn't feel. There was a very long rainfall period in winter, which did not let us feel this pollution to the extent that it existed. However, this does not mean that we cannot see the shaped reality. We deceived of this image and thought it was better winter when it wasn't. Minister, while one would expect that lowering the price of oil in the previous period would reduce pollution in the atmosphere, it seems that the effects of oil price increases in the previous period had created a different attitude toward the issue, namely the market for stoves, a greater addiction in fireplaces, etc. So we created an atmosphere that was extremely difficult to overcome. If these are imprinted, we all need to see what we're going to do. I say again that I do not think you are being reassured, but I think you see things in brighter colors than they exist. On 6 March, the European Union committed itself to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases by at least 40% compared to their level in the '90s. We have so far given - and everyone knows - a critical battle for economic equilibrium within the limits of our national existence. However, we must not ignore the actions of the European Environment Agency to reduce exposure to pollution targeted at multiple levels. Our country must implement these initiatives and European directives and related protocols, respecting its obligation to ensure that citizens' health, quality of the environment and cost savings are combined. The economic crisis that exacerbates the problems, but it may also be an opportunity for an overall approach to these problems that are directly linked and to the economic prospects of the country. Perhaps it is an opportunity to tackle all these issues radically with national strategic planning - the one I told you in my prototype - so that we can meet our citizens, the country and the European Union obligations. I think we should, I would not say exploiting, prefer the word to "assess" as far as we can elements of this crisis that we are going through to see a more comprehensive approach to all other issues linked to the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u119	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u120	I share your anxiety. I didn't go to present a nice situation, not a single light. I am simply optimistic that we can take drastic measures to rehabilitate fossil fuels, which is our final solution to our economy too - as I have shown with the numbers of oil consumption - and also for our health. And you know in this battle I'll be present. I just had to point out the figures so we wouldn't be dramatic, which are at your disposal. I'll testify to the Minutes. However, here, when you refer specifically to the problem of winter pollution, I should like to make it clear that it is not just a narrow matter of a CFD. In my services I have the CFDs, and for stoves with specifications, but also for the enhancement of natural gas which is a yesable mineral fuel, but much less polluting than oil and for the other measures taken by the previous governments, which I share. But how can I convince the citizen when we had manoeuvre deaths? And I'm stressing it, dude! What standards for stoves when people are going to get wood out of garbage right now? And you know very well that these are soaked wood. They are normally banned from burning, because they have too many poisons inside. They're pallet wood and everything else useless. They're varnishe wood, which they literally kill. However, on his despair, to the citizen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u121	Minister, I don't want to interrupt you, but we need persistent and painful enlightenment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u122	...who doesn't have to eat, when they got us at this point, you can't tell him go and buy the wood as specified, whatever C.I.A. and get out. Can we realise that this is a misery which we are living through precisely because of the crisis that has been imposed on us and because of the dismantling of the mechanisms? You will allow me some information: I have here the 2008 ESDP study to which it talks about plans, about what we can do and not just about the gaseous pollutants. Uh, the NRP merged with the Memorandum with the IGM and literally disappeared. Today, there has been a total address for the environment of Mr Manalis, thirty-four of whom, with air pollution, only twelve people are employed together with the managers. So the D.C.F.D.'s broken up. There's actually two people left. And now we are struggling to pass the complements of the memorandum to re-establish it, to make national planning. This is the situation we have received, if you like the grim colors. Because I have preferred to talk about the projects we have and we can implement them and they will do good for the economy. But if you want to talk about reality you are absolutely right, but here is the reality in the memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u123	As Mr Lykoudis did not have a microphone in his intervention, he asked for full information from the citizen about the dangers of burning poor quality to which the Minister referred. To be kept up-to-date and fully informed of the risks. We continue with the second question under number 2143/29-4-2015 of the Z' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the revocation of logging permits in Magnesia. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, hundreds of loggers in Magnesia in the last few months have been uncertain and uncertain about their work, their future. And for this reason it is the revocation of all logging licenses from Volos Forest on the basis of a document from the Director General of Forests of the Decentralised Administration of Thessaly Central Greece from 27-11-2014. By making use of this document of the Decentralised Region, the Forestry actually asks for the relevant documents to be re-issued in order to relicate logging. The loggers, the previous period, i.e. before the end of last year, moved in this direction, but the master does not accept their applications, supporting documents, etc., of at least those who were able to collect them and submit them. And of course, despite the assurances of the Magnesia Forests Directorate, the problem is understandable to everyone that it is huge. And as the loggers themselves say, there is a danger of unemployment involving about a thousand five hundred logging people in the region, who are members of the cooperatives and also of the Association of Traders and Logan Magnesia. And imagine that they are not the only ones directly affected, of course, but they are also affected by a number of other workers or, if you like, by sectors related to logging. And we think and believe that their indignation is fair, but also the mobilisations they made in the previous period, their representations of protest, while the forests, not only of Magnesia but also of the whole of Thessaly, are essentially not fully managed by the forestry services due to staff shortages and under-financing. And all of this has an impact on the extension itself, if you like, or on the increase in illegal logistics, but also, as you know, unemployment is affected, which breaks every record in the Magnesia Prefecture. The question to the Minister therefore is how the Ministry intends to resolve the problem of the withdrawal of logging licences to the public, private and owned forests of Magnesia, without the risk of finding the around a thousand five hundred logging logging in unemployment, but also the wider dimension of the issue, as I said before, for other sectors linked to logging. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. And I thank you twice, because despite the fact that you know that we do not have jurisdiction in decentralised as a Ministry - and it is a problem of time that we want to solve it in order to vertical the forestry services and finally enable the Ministry to make a policy at the decentralised level - yet you know my concern about forest exploitation and the vitality of the country's mountain volume. And that's why I did a little investigation asking for explanations from the decentralized administrations. So I have been given the paper to which you are referring and I am specifically reading what issues are going to be resolved in this document of 27 November of '14. It therefore says first of all on private forests or woodland for which the property regime is vacant against the State, on the basis of Article 10 of 3208/2003, as applicable, logging licences will only be issued in the name of the legal owner or logging on a case-by-case basis when the authorisation is presented. I think there should be no problem over there. As in 3, there must be no problem, which says in the case of woods which are alleged to be occupied and which are fully public-right - for public forests - as these were not recognised as private, they apply the provisions laid down by 1533848/296 from 24-5/85. We are talking about an order from the Ministry of Agriculture issued over 20 years ago. Where perhaps there would be a problem, from what I can see from these documents and from the document to which you refer, it is in 2, which says that where people are being asked for the land to be harvested in private forests, the recognition decision of which does not expressly state the existence within the limits of such forests - even in fact - will not issue fruits in favour of those alleged as owners and will advise interested parties to initiate the procedure for the recognition of their rights. We may therefore refer to this point on private forests that you know is a minority of our forests. So I am told by the Director of Forestry, Mr. Tseligas, with his document - which I will table in the Minutes - and is closing his sentence, so that I do not mourn you with all the document, with the following words: "The Volos Forest is responsible for issuing logging permits in Pelion and so far has not become aware of our withdrawal of a logging licence after the above order." Here, then, there is an order, which actually applies older laws. If you really want to help me, to help me, we need to see what revocations we are talking about when my service tells me, in response to your question - and I am not responsible for the decentralised ones - that there has been no withdrawal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, thank you. Minister, I have the document with me. I've read it. You also recognized a place or what you thought - and you did well - that we should listen. But see: They can't bite. How will the problem be solved? There are those who you say, as mentioned in the document, for which there are loose ends with regard to ownership, titles, etc. However, for those who go and testify to all the documents required - according to the loggers - the master does not respect the acceptance of the documents. She doesn't accept them. In fact - that is oral, but I am forced to say it - the complainants say that the master claims that he does not receive the applications because he has orders from him. I won't, of course, be you, Detective, if the term is allowed, to look into this. But look. It is what you have read and it appears within the document of decentralised administration that, behind all this problem that has arisen, the forest ownership issue with the occupants, which is an issue that should have been solved for many years, decades, I would say. This is a question of what the government is planning in this direction. Of course, it is a matter of political decision on forests, forest areas that had not been given titles in the past, but now, and while they should still be considered as undisputed national areas. This situation suits some people. The fact that this issue is not resolved, but is perpetuating is no accident in our view. It was a deliberately conscious political choice of the governments to date, which led to the fragmentation of the forest land, to the deliberate perpetuation of the property problem, which facilitated expansion at the expense of public land, especially in areas of enormous economic interest. And it is a policy that is fully in line with the overall policy of marketing and privatising the land in order to enhance the profitability of the capital of tourism, construction, etc., by serving or implementing a specific strategy of the European Union, that is, the adaptation of forests to market laws by means of so-called 'green growth', etc. To this end, there is a series of legislation for all the previous governments which are the rings of a chain of legislation that promotes this. So who? The commercialisation of land, forest land. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance. Is it a legislative framework to do with changes in land use by implementing specific European Union directives for the benefit of whom? The big capital and investment. The issue of forest ecosystems is objectively conflicted and the two development paths and the different class interests stemming from these two roads are opposed. On the one hand, there is the route of the bourgeoisie, the capitalist development path facing the land and its use as a commodity, implementing and promoting a specific pro-monopoly strategy for the benefit of, of course, the interests of the bourgeoisie, through sustainable green development, including public forest ecosystems, public forest property as a profitable way out to the over-accumulated ponds. On the other hand, there is the development path proposed by the Communist Party, from the point of view of serving the interests of the working class, the majority of the people, where the land and its use, forest ecosystems must be social property. This policy is inextricably linked to the intervention of the working people's movement to overthrow the European Union's policy, capital, but also to the governments that serve it and, of course, to all the anti-grass laws that provide the land, forest ecosystems. In this direction, therefore, we also call on the loggers to organize their struggle and to co-operate with the Communist Party of Greece. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u129	The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr.Ioannis Tsironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u130	I respond first to the most important and important issue of your speech, saying that I share the views very much. And you know that for us, of course, the forest maps - in order to finally define and safeguard the ownership of the public - and once they are finalized, the tariff will define these uses. You rightly mentioned where and how they can be exploited to finally bring our mountain tumor to life. Because with all the post-war policies we have destroyed the two-thirds of our country and made them contribute to GDP no more than little and accumulated all these citizens - customers in the cities. Yes, they must live up to these mountain villages again, to bring the economy - which you rightly mention - of the small owner, the small non-owner, the small farmer, who we were talking about before, of the small logging farmer, who is using and engaging in the public forest, which is from 80% of our forest land. Yeah, that's where I'm whole-hearted with you. But these things we'll do together and we want you to be close to us. But in this particular matter, I would like to know to help - help me to help you - if there is in the region the decentralised issue, particularly in Volos, because they can't bite the whole of Greece at the moment. Because people there to yell, some are right. Try and help me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u131	It's not a matter of decentralised administration. Decentralised sent a document on specific issues, calling for revision or update.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u132	Let's finish, Mr. Lambroulis, first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u133	But I'm reappearing from what comes to my hands...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u134	We have the master who does not grant any request for updates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u135	Your Honor, help me out here to help you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u136	What else can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u137	I repeat, from the documents that arrive at my hands and may be oral protests, as you said, but I must somehow have them in writing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u138	Seek the word from the master.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Bright, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u140	I asked and he replied that there was no revocation. If, then, there is something else that blocks these people, it cannot be an exception to Volos from all over the rest of Greece. The policies you refer to me, I agree, but they are universal. We're talking about this particular problem, so people can work. So, can I have any information in writing to help them? Because my documents say your revocations have not been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u141	Has he answered you in writing, Minister, the master you implied?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u142	Yeah, that there's been no revocation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u143	Please submit the written answer to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u144	Let's take the master's decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u145	Of course, Mr President, I have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u146	So they should continue to work, Minister, normally people should not be chased by foresters and foresters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate as well as the reports - Questions have been concluded. We will enter legislative work, which has three colleagues' immunity lifts. I hope and hope that it will be brief, because unanimously the committee responsible recommends that they should not be lifted - rightly in my view - of their immunity. Before I hand over the position of President-in-Office to my dear colleague Mr Lykoudis, because the Chamber, as you can see, is set aside for five minutes to be made more complete. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, the number needed to start our process exists. Before entering the special agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and being informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House is organised, fifteen students and students and three educational sessions from the Kritsas Lassithi Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, pursuant to Rules 61(2) and 62 of the Constitution and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Kanellis, Ioannis Giokas and Christos Katsotis. The competent Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report of 22-5-2015 that the members of the Commission unanimously proposed that the immunity of these Members should not be waived. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or prosecution, prosecution or harassment, conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Public Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their Deputys. The provisions of Articles 71 and 72 shall apply accordingly. The House shall decide by secret ballot if this is requested by the President of the Parliament or by the President of the Parliamentary Group to which the Member is a party whose immunity is sought. These are referred to in Article 83(7). But I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the case of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The present case concerns colleagues and colleagues. Canneli, Ioannis Giokas and Christos Katsotis. Is there a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u150	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u151	On what subject, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u152	I would like to ask a question about procedure in the Bureau, if you will allow, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u153	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u154	I fully respect the decision of the 2005 Conference of Presidents, but I think that the Ethics Committee that examined this complaint should return it without delay, as the prosecutor sent us a complaint to colleagues who carried out their parliamentary duties. But that will now be expressed in the vote of colleagues. It's no different. My question, Mr President, is this in the Bureau. We're in a parliament that's in semi-harassment. He had no plenary all week, no bills. Most Members, those who did not have parliamentary control, are in their constituencies, in the province. Minimum Members are Cologne MPs in this Chamber. So what is the reason why he is meeting today on Friday when he could have a mid-week meeting or next week? Is there an explanation? That's what I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u155	There's a deadline.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, it is from 22 May.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, the point is interesting, but it is not easy to answer or to resolve the problem from the point of view or assessment made by the President-in-Office. But your remarks were recorded. I have nothing to say, because I could not say much more than accept that your remarks are recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no colleagues who are asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure. This is where the roll-call vote will take place. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Any colleague who votes for the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the prosecutor's request for the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes next to the Member's name and to the 'OHIM' column respectively. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Then, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues, Mr Eleni Sotiriou, from SYRIZA and Mr Niki Kerameos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree on a procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u158	So the House unanimously agreed. [[Let the pages in. 145-146]] Ladies and gentlemen, letters and telex Members have come to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. The Members of Parliament are called on the list, Mr Xanna, by SYRIZA and Emmanuel Konsolas from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u159	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by Mr Pano Skourikos and Mr Stavros Kontonis, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and the Deputy Minister of Finance have tabled a draft law on 11-6-2015: 'Amendment of Code of Income Tax and other provisions'. This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House of the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. Kanelli, Ioannis Giokas and Christos Katsotis. A total of 140 Members voted. They voted 140 MPs against the lifting of immunity. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. I don't know if she's been to the House before. Unanimously, Parliament voted against the request for the waiver of immunity of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-12-S1-commons.u163	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 14.00 noon.
