ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report as well as the reports on Thursday 14 May 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 184/5-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Kanellepoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the need to redesign the use of the building stock of the former Ministry of Culture and Sports. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 189/5-2015 topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Finance, on the impact of the decision to exclude Greece from the European Central Bank's programme for quantitative relaxation. 3. The 191/5-2015 topical question by Z' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the situation in the hospital unit "MALIA FLEMING". 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the need for an immediate payment of the sums due to hospitals in Achaia. 5. The 180/4-5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the complaint by SYRIZA when he was opposition to the arrangement tabled by Amendment 1251/67/7-3-2014 and joined the n. 4250/26-3-2014 of the Ministry of Administrative Reform and related to fines of EUR 1.2 billion. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 193/5-2015 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Finance, on measures to relieve the borrowers of the Organization for the Housing of Workers (OEC). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 153/28-4-2015 topical question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the crisis in the book. 3. The Question No 162/28-4-2015 by the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Javara to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the payment of 1.5% of the gross revenues of television stations for the production of films. 4. Under No 149/27-4-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the attitude of the lawyer of the Greek State in discussing the appeal to the Council of State on 24-3-2015 of the non-profit association "Greek Taxees", which called for an anti-constitutional and illegal compromise agreement between the Greek State and SIEMENS. 5. The Question No 163/28-4-2015 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Finance, on the statements by the government representative on the issue of increased VAT on certain Aegean islands. 6. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the reintegration of former employees of the Achaia Bank into the National Bank of Greece. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 115/20-4-2015 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health regarding the schedule for the abolition of the Anonymous Society of Hospital Remuneration System (ESAAN SA.). 8. The Question No 105/20-4-2015 by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health on the procedure for selecting hospital units. 9. Under number 106/20-4-2015, a topical question by Congressman Drama of the River Mr. Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of National Defence on reports from the manufacturer (Lockheed Martin) on the reconstruction of the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals by Airbus. 10. The question by No. 123/20-4-2015 of the Greek Independent Athens MP Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Health concerning health measures to protect the citizens of the Tower of Elias due to the accumulation of waste in the area. 11. The 131/21-4-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the launch of the "Home Settlement" programme under the Partnership Agreement (EPC) 2014-2020 and the relaunch of the building activity. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 1365/31-3-2015 question by MP II of the New Democracy, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, about the lack of medicinal products from the Greek market. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1583/6-4-2015 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Athanasios Vardalis, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, about the need for direct funding of the school units of the Municipality of Thessaloniki. 3. The question by number 407/3-2015 of the fourth Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Health, regarding the resignations of Hospital Governors. 4. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Health about the impact on the economy of Northern Greece from the free movement of products with Skopje. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring of 27 March 2015 Act of Legislative Content ‘An urgent regulation on the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A.’ and due date’ (A'35)’. We're going straight to the list of speakers. Mrs. Rachel Makri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The government is called upon to resolve two very serious and urgent issues, on the one hand, to facilitate citizens and, on the other hand, to ensure the operation of one of the most critical industries in the country. The need for these arrangements becomes self-proof, as one of the Greek Sakhari industry depends on a large number of farmers cultivating beet, on the other hand, the exhaustive obsession of the previous government in overtaxing the citizens, has brought society to despair. The truth is that the urgency of these provisions cannot be called into question as farmers had to sow their next crop. It is not possible for the state to owe the people of hardship and not to choose the most immediate legislative solution to settle the amounts due. There cannot be people in despair because they want to pay their tax obligations and do not allow them to do so by over-incremental increases and supergae fines. Unlike the previous government, the urgent nature of the arrangements is now judged by the interest of the many and not the pockets of the oligarchs. We recall that on 7 March 2014, the then Minister of Finance Mr Stournaras, Labour and Social Security, Mr Brutsis, Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance, Mr.Mitsotakis, signed the amendment with number 1251/67, for which the publication of the magazine “UNFOLLOW” states that it is erasing fines and certified tax obligations that for one company alone and only for the years 2010-2011 amount to EUR 480 million, from EUR 800 million originally fine, while it is estimated that if other years are checked the amount can reach EUR 1,2 billion. Always according to the published information in the above article, the amendment comes to serve a large number of companies and, in particular, oil companies. The first company is the "MOTOR OIL" by Mr Vardinoyannis and the second "ELPE" by Mr. Spyros Latsis, who is a partner with the Greek State. On this regulation, I had tabled the question and application number 7222/871 on 24 March 2014, in which, of course, the previous government never dared to reply. In contrast to the Members of the previous government, we support only the people's mandate to remedy injustices and restore legality and unlike MPs who remind the Cheetta of the Nobelist American writer Lewis, "When fascism comes to America it will be wrapped up in a flag and will hold a cross". We support Amendment No 138.9 of 7 May 2015 on the regulation of issues relating to the functioning of the people's markets. On 5 May 2014, the New Democracy and PASOK, represented by Mr Hadjidakis and Mr Stournara, signed a deal in Eurogroup which provides that only four companies will be responsible for the cultivation, production and processing of Greek agricultural products, which would be marketed by a single company. I am presenting the specific figures for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Rachel Makri, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] On May 6, 2014 you voted for Law 4264, which attempted to put tombstones on the popular markets, which, of course, were ruining the monopoly you dreamed of. You have attempted to impoverish producers, but also sellers, to lose their licenses. Fortunately, for the Greek people, you have not succeeded. The current government is taking the first step, restoring a basic injustice. We all have to contribute, of course, to the fullest and most democratic implementation of a solution to the benefit of both consumers and people who have taken part in the difficult conditions of rural trade. In more detail, therefore, SYRIZA Members are proposing legal interventions in the People's Markets Amendment: Paragraph 1 of Amendment 138.9, amending paragraph 2 of Article 39 of L.4264/2014, provides that a decision is to be adopted to submit the necessary supporting documents, at least two months before the end of the renewal date. In the following subparagraph, the end date shall be 30 June 2015 with the possibility of a four-month extension. For the purpose of the correct legislative procedure, we believe that the final date should be 30 October 2015, with the possibility of a four-month extension, in order for the competent bodies to have the time to meet their obligations. In paragraph 2 of the amendment, which concerns paragraph 2 of Article 5 of Law No 4264/14, we propose, Mr Minister, that 'the operators of the public markets' should be replaced by 'the operators of the public markets', as in Athens and Thessaloniki, the decisions are not taken by the mayors. In addition, the same article would be legitimate to add that the positions already held by producers and professional sellers are maintained, as the positions were given by Presidential Decree 51 of 2006 and not arbitrarily. In addition, in the same paragraph, it may be added for reasons of transparency that the operators of the public markets shall set up five subordinated committees consisting of three officials, a representative of the Association of Producers and a representative of the Association of Professionals. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, you will give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u3	Mrs. Macrie, excuse me. Since last night it has been decided - and I say this on the occasion of the interruption that I now have in your speech - that speakers have six minutes of time. I would ask that, as far as possible by my fellow Members, there be the positions of the parliamentary representatives, as well as the position of the speaker, as decided on last night, on the amendments. This is a programme about five hours. Imagine that at 16.00 hours the debate and the vote must be completed. So I would ask all Members to keep their time on this occasion. I'll give you some more time, but hurry up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. In paragraph 6 of Amendment 138.9 we propose that the last subparagraph be replaced by the ‘and a representative of the people's markets that pursues his professional activity in the Metropolitan Unit of Thessaloniki and is proposed by the most representative club within the upper administrative limit’. This legislative improvement is intended to ensure that the representative is proposed by the most frequently registered members of the club, whether he is made up of producers of sellers, professional sellers or both of the two categories of popular markets. As additional legislative improvements we propose to Article 4 of the n. 4264/2014 to replace the relevant regional council by the Regional Committee of Attica and Thessaloniki respectively, in order to ensure that the procedures do not delay and resolve those who have a comprehensive knowledge of the subject. Furthermore, Article 12(1) of the EEC Treaty provides for the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion. 4264/2014, as amended and in force, we propose to remove the phrase 'from inability to join the recipient', as the context of proof of weakness is unclear. Finally, we have to regulate the bureaucratic procedures for issuing and renewing production licences, because there must be a distinct procedure for issuing this renewal, because it is not reasonable to oblige farmers every three or six months to collect eighteen supporting documents and extraordinarily exaggerated documents to prove self-evident. So we prove in practice that the page has changed. The Samara - Venizelos coup d'état has introduced shame amendments to remove fines and debts to specific entrepreneurs and only for triangular transactions. These regulations call on the current government to abolish and impose the constitutional mandate for tax burdens on the basis of citizens' tax capacity. When there is transparency, everyone fulfils their obligations. A characteristic example is the PAOK PAOK PAOK, which paid its obligations under this MDG, contributing to the public fund and solving problems that were due to this historic group of Northern Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. Mrs Kerameo has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 1 of the Act of Legislative content, the objective of urgent regulation is to ensure, through the capital support of EUR 30 million, the continued operation and viability of the Greek Sugar Industry. On the day following the signature of the legislative act, I asked the Government a question on the compatibility of this capital aid with Union legislation. I could well have expected me to express my thoughts directly to the House. My aim, however, with the submission of this question, was to ensure the validity of the act in good time and in the event of a breach of Union law, that there is a margin for correction. And this, in order to avoid any complications and financial sanctions that would later significantly burden Greek taxpayers and which could be fatal for the company's future. Forty days have passed and the question has not yet been answered. Is that why I ask you again, Ministers, from the Stepping-up of the House: have you made sure that it is compatible with State aid rules, within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? Has the necessary measures been taken to shield the act in this respect? The question points out, moreover, both the General Accounting Office of the State and the Scientific Service of the Parliament. In addition, have you assessed the arrangement in the light of the decisions of the European Commission of May 2011 and May 2013 approving, under conditions, State aid for the recapitalisation and resolution of ATE? I would like to point out these two decisions, because the first sale of the Greek Sugar Industry was made as a prerequisite for the approval of the recapitalisation of ATE, while in the second decision of the European Commission the liquidation of assets not transferred to Piraeus Bank, which includes the Sugar Industry, was set as a precondition for the approval of the resolution of ATE. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, in the second decision of the European Commission of May 2013, it is stated in particular: ‘The restructuring will not involve new capital aid’. Therefore, such legal issues need to be investigated in depth and if there is a problem, this should be corrected or mitigated as soon as possible. I am tabling these two European Commission decisions on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, whether or not this has been the case. 4152/2013 prior consultation procedure with the State Aid Central Unit of the Ministry of Finance? The KEMI opinion is compulsory and this step was introduced as an insurance policy, precisely to shield ourselves from the mistakes of the past, from mistakes that cost both the Greek taxpayer and the very prospects of developing and refining the country's production base. Mr President-in-Office, I consider your concern about the protection of customs producers to be reasonable. I do not doubt your good intentions or your decision to prioritise the support of this undertaking in the context of an industrial policy. However, ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that compliance with Union State aid rules is an obligation of each Member State in the context of the maintenance of legality. However, ladies and gentlemen, these rules are not just a cartoon. We cannot only accept them when they bring money and ignore them when they are accompanied by obligations. But, at the first meeting of the committee, we heard the Minister of State, Mr Lafazani, giving us a resignation because, with honesty and respect for your priority, we tried to warn you, we attempted to safeguard precisely the authority of the act. Is it a lack of patriotic attitude to protect the Greek taxpayer and to respect legality? Should we not point out the need for timely preventive or corrective measures? Armouring the act in terms of compatibility with Union legislation should be a common goal for all of us, make sure that all the necessary procedures have been followed and all the necessary prior evaluations have been carried out. Otherwise, this measure, Mr Ministers, can be returned to a boomerang and should not only be repaid the sum of 30 million, but also the Greek taxpayer should be asked to pay anatomy and fines. That's exactly what we want to prevent. I will not extend myself to the role of liquidator and its statutory obligations, nor to whether this capital support is ultimately an effective and effective measure to resolve the company's structural problems, since at the second meeting of the committee responsible in Parliament many of the parties concerned were told of the long-standing past, the virtuous present and the uncertain future of the Greek Sugar Industry. Most parties, however, agreed in a common place that the viability and resolution of the company is doubtful that they are ensured by the contested measure. And the intended capital aid may also freeze any investment interest from private individuals in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I will just say a few words about Article 2 of the Act, with which the Government is making an extremely generous extension of the exceptions which had been introduced only six days before the signing of the Act. This article provides for further exemption from additional taxes, fees, late submission and so on. In short, with this arrangement you can only pay the net principal tax debt, tax free, fees, fines and surcharges. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, what message does the government give to Greek taxpayers, both to those who are consistent and inconsistent, with this late addition to an already favourable regulation? Is this not a challenge to all those taxpayers who really strive to be consistent with their tax obligations towards the State? Is it not an encouragement and a clear incentive to those who are systematically inconsistent or tax-free? In what sense and for what purpose, instead of suffering the consequences of their actions, are they rewarded by the regulation? Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot but ask ourselves what kind of fiscal consciousness the government wants to cultivate to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Mr Christos Hadjisavvas from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u8	For example, the epitome of the deindustrialisation of Greece is the case of the Greek Sugar Industry. One wonders how some were able to close a medium-sized company that was monopolizing the market. To me, it is the common economic market that has asked us to reduce production by 50% and we have done so. It is, however, the CFP, which led farmers to the wrong roads and, unfortunately, continues to lead them on the wrong track even now. Young farmers who go to agriculture are trying to find only subsidised crops, without any interest if what they do contributes to the effort that we are supposed to do as a country to relaunch the economy. The point is that many times the problem is not identified and sometimes it is also hidden. There are problems in private enterprises too, Mr Ministers. In Kilkis, "KARINA" are hostages for former workers and their families. There are hundreds of such examples throughout Greece. We agreed that one of the factors for the rescue of the Greek Sugar Industry and the proper functioning of this is farmers and the increase in sugar beet production. But how is that going to happen? We said it was going to be a conventional crop. The farmers proposed it, said the 'good, good' bank, the industry said 'we will do it'. And farmers are now wondering: How will it be? Will they start growing first and then the contracts will be made? So from the end to the beginning? For the two Banks - and the Agricultural Bank which was a shareholder, and the one which it inherited afterwards, Piraeus - sounded inside the committee to say that it was only for them to collect. Of course all they care about is collecting. Private banks that borrow with interest are shops that sell money. All they care about is collect, nothing more. Now the question of how a bank works as a private with 40% being in private and 60% being in the Financial Stability Fund is another issue. Of course, the bank mentioned that there was not even a request for financing the company, because - he says - DIGICON said that state-owned enterprises should not be financed and they did so as they did. It was also mentioned whether he could sell the frozen sugar from "PAGA" and the bank's gentlemen said that of course he can sell it, although it was a common assumption that the price he can sell at the moment makes the product uncompetitive. We're going through this to say a little bit about the "UPEGA", because some people might not know. ‘PAGA’, with a volume and on the basis of the specific weight of the goods, gives a financing by binding the commodity. And they said it's not sealed and they can sell at any time. We must say that chains enter and seals enter and, for goods to be loaded, they must be an employee of the bank there present in the loading process, when the documentation is cut and, of course, even a pound of revenues are to be sold for the bank's payment. There was a great deal of talk about workers' wages and one of the relevant bodies said that wages could be a little more than that because they get a frontier allowance. The problem for some in there was this: Why is the frontier benefit granted when, for example, teachers at the border are not given? Shouldn't it be backwards? Why is the State not given a frontier allowance and teachers? Fortunately, however, our teachers have different criteria for whether or not they go to learn our children letters. For Article 2, there has been a lot of discussion on the rules on debt. The Minister told us it's not what we say it is. At least not to make a smack of those affected by the memorandum in recent years with those who have been working for such regulations to the detriment of competition, who were running to pay their contributions, were running to pay their taxes, while they were paying nothing, they also made a partial transfer to the prices of the products and, of course, no one could compete with them. I would like to refer a little to the people. It is good to extend time, and the arrangements are good. The issue is the reasons for these people not being able to pay their contributions, their obligations and they now need regulation. In the discreetness between producers and professionals, I see only reference to spatial planning. There are too many problems. The state throws responsibility over the region, the region in the municipality, the municipality in the unions, half the people do not speak with the other half. There are too many problems. Now how will you tell the producer who trades ten products and produces one with the producer who is really a producer or with the purely professional, I don't know. There are, however, many problems. Who did you talk to, where you talked, when you spoke, I don't know. Until today they're calling us and they're transferring their despair to us. There are too many problems. Even with the ban on agricultural products producers have been affected. They also have problems with peoples, who have to compete with someone who has neither cash nor contributory contributions, who pays nothing. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. We, as a popular nationalist movement, believe that the components for restarting the economy are the primary sector, they are farmers, they are fishermen, they are farmers, they are workers. With a proper national policy, a national Greek government, a Greek state with the help of God, will give the solution and I do not mean your own government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Kyriakos Charakides from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, we have another act of legislation today, the second one. And in the first part of the procedure I had told Mr Voutsi, when he had described the first Act of Legislative Content as the epitome of the acts, that the next one to come would be named, as the abstraction of legislative acts? Today he came, the next one will come, we don't know what he'll call it. The point is that we are going even worse than the previous one, because we now have provisions - amendments in practice and in particular in the folk amendment - we do not see how urgent it is, and the relevance that the legislative act can have, since we have in the first article on sugar and in the second article a provision on taxation. And here comes, if you will, the question: If the President of Parliament was here today? Last time in a bill three amendments, he asked the ministers twice to explain and, having not been convinced for the reasons of urgency and relevance, he put it in order for the plenary to decide to discuss these amendments. So we think about what would happen today. Would he accept it or wouldn't he? Would he go back into the voting process? And I would like to get into the essence of the act of legislative content, perhaps beginning with Article 2, as well as our special speaker, who spoke in detail. I will make a comment on Article 2, which is a complement to what has come to restart the economy with the hundred doses and several arrangements that came after. As long as that plan is improved, it will be for the better, and we do not disagree. However, the economy is not being re-launched by regulation, i.e. tax legislation in each bill. The economy is relaunched, in my view, by four brave interventions. With a brave intervention, a brave and immediate regulation of the red loans, which, in a timely question, Mr Stathakis resumed to me that in six months' time the process would begin in February. We have February, March, April, May and every one we go in six months. In the six months, however, it must begin to count. The second thing that needs to be done is bank liquidity to business, because the longer this environment remains, we will have a greater problem. And it cannot be done by confronting the government with the Bank of Greece at the moment, but by convergence. To open a confrontation with Mr Stournara is like chasing her shadow, chasing ghosts. What the current government has to pursue is a precondition for growth and nothing more and in cooperation with all the institutions, with all the data that it has in front of it. The third one that the government must see immediately and must enter into dialogue with the institutions is the new development law. To start cowardly some investments, but in a better climate. And the fourth is bankruptcy law, an outdated, anachronistic bankruptcy law. No one expects to come to Greece to invest from another country where bankruptcy law plays the most important role for foreign investment. On the occasion of my position in Article 2, I just wanted to ask the Minister, in other words to inform us what amounts have been collected over the past few years. I mentioned the committee specifically about sugar, and I said - and I heard the Minister mention here as well - that while there were two hundred and thirty-four thousand acres grown in 2009 and a hundred and seventy tons of sugar were produced without any subsidy, seventy-four thousand acres were grown in 2014 and fifty-three thousand tonnes of sugar were produced, although in 2010 there has been a complete intervention of 30 euros and then we have had the 53 euro balancing. We see that farmers are not in the process of cultivating and we say: 'Why are they not going to grow?' For one reason alone: why does not anyone guarantee, not that they will get higher prices, as some people say, in corn and so on, but because they do not know whether their product will be paid at any price agreed. Well, that's because, first of all, there's no guarantee that the factory will work, there's no guarantee that everything they're told will come into effect and that they're at some point not being paid, as they've been unpaid for so long. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We now have the legislative act. We were told that 30 million would go to the shipowners, they would go to the transporters and so on. Here we are: The workers were paid by the Piraeus Bank loan and had no money to take, as was said in committee. Producers had to take 913 thousand and transporters 1,800,000, that is, from 30 million 2,713,000. The rest of the money went, in fact, to the state, i.e. the state took away from the clearer 30 million and paid TRAINOSE, paid the DEPA, paid the OPEKEPE and the Serbian subsidiaries and, of course, the French and Polish. We therefore ask a question, on the basis of the evidence provided by the liquidator. Because the 30 million we took from the clearer. So the clearer has gathered about 500 million so far. You know that out of the 500 million 320 million went to the CFS, to the Financial Stability Fund, and that 30 million over there would go? The rest went to old suppliers, workers and so on. I would also like to ask: we have taken 30 million to increase the share capital. Why didn't we get 60-70 million from the clearer to strengthen the company's share capital even more, to have money, as we got 30 now? Whether it's legal or illegal, whether it's 30 or 70, it's the same thing we think. So why didn't we get 60-70 to get the company to move? Because - be careful - 20 million working capital requested the company from Piraeus Bank and Piraeus Bank refused and said "only when ATE to be liquidated - the company that makes the liquidation of the Agricultural Bank - will cover the cash deficits, only then will we be in the process of giving money".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Charakides, please be very brief. You got two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u12	I will close, Mr President, by asking a question, for the Minister to give us the reward of the clearers, that is to say, if there is a reward, which is what it is. The most embarrassing thing for all of us is that at the moment it has thirty-eight thousand tons of frozen Greek sugar, Piraeus Bank is not sold by the company, because if it sells all the money, Piraeus Bank will still be in stores, and what we are doing, instead of selling Greek sugar sugar, is selling Polish and French, imported sugar, in danger of losing our rights in full. In fact, the brand name with which it sells Polish sugar is "Greek Sugar Industry". It's a disgrace to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Ioannis Karagiannis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relevant bill we are debating today in this House is given by the Government two clear answers to relevant major and serious issues. The first is about the survival and reorganisation of an important production reconstruction tool in the country, which is the Greek Sugar Industry, and the second is the great and self-evident effort to increase public revenues. The Legislative Act of 27 March on the Sugar Industry comes at the critical moment to successfully cover the institutional inability of the main shareholder of the company to meet its obligations regarding capital adequacy and due debts. The transaction is deemed necessary and necessary both for the continued operation of the company and for the support of the customs producers. The general support for primary production and Greek processing is not a mere obligation, but a national need for both the industrialisation of the country and the sustainable balancing of the current account and for increasing its level of self-reliance on food. Unfortunately, our country today is deficient in most species, and the needs are covered by ever-increasing imports of the trade balance. For example, only imports of livestock products exceed 2 billion a year. Ladies and gentlemen, the financial and structural problems of the Greek Sugar Company, injurious uses and lack of liquidity have been adequately analysed in the committee with the relevant bodies. There all parties agreed to support, reorganise and develop the company. With the necessary capital support, Industry is basically starting to fight survival and, at the same time, it supports customs producers at the beginning of the growing season, with the aim of continuing to produce beet in our country. In order for industry to be able to respond to its strategic role, however, it is necessary to implement the reorganisation plan immediately, which must aim to reduce its operating costs, increase productivity, extroversion and sustainability in conditions of strong competition for shareholders, workers and producers. Strict and systematic control, results-based assessment, liability for past years' actions and omissions and the operation of the company with purely privatised economic criteria is guaranteed. With regard to Article 2 on late payment with regard to the amendment to paragraph 1 of Article 1 of L.4321/2015, I would like to say that it is moving very clearly in a positive direction, why? The possibility is for natural and legal persons who are in real economic weakness of payments due to a crisis to regulate tax loose ends and, at the same time, to incur revenues from public funds. It is known that the regulation of the hundreds of instalments of due debts under Article 1 of that Law only included the exemption of the increases and the interest on late payment of those debts, in particular Article 53 of Law 4174/2013, as well as the fines for the submission of an inaccurate statement or of no declaration under Articles 54 and 58 of that Law. However, it is well known to everyone that, due to the economic crisis, companies are in great difficulty and economic suffocation, so that they cannot meet their obligations. Thus, the full exemption or exemption from all the additional taxes of Law 2523/1997, as well as those of the fines and interest of Law 4174/2013, which takes place in an act of legislative content, will enable companies to meet the unfavourable economic circumstances of their debts and the State to increase its revenues. Here lies the substance and the positive sign of this article, which, in advance, deliberately and bipolarly, the opposition has tried to interpret as an act of grace to major debtors. In the present economic context, however, such unfounded claims are not justified. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u15	We thank Mr Karayannis and thank him for keeping time. Mr Christos Stakouras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called on to discuss the ratification of the second act of legislation in the current government. Two acts in less than a month. Practical practice which the parties that have today supported the government, as they have supported, in the form of an urgent motion for a resolution, as they have supported and voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and the motion for a resolution to be adopted again and again in the first hundred days of the new government. All of this constitutes, if anything, clear evidence of inconsistencies, but it also proves the deadlocks to which the government has come because of its uncertainty, its old age, its failures. It is for the national court to determine whether the conditions laid down in Article 2(1) of Under the first provision, the special liquidator of the Agricultural Bank is paid out of the EUR 30 million from its undistributed profits and disposal to the Greek Sugar Industry, against a future increase in its share capital. Two issues have been raised by both opposition and institutions. The first relates to whether such payment is compatible with the existing Union institutional framework on State aid, which also indicates the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. The question submitted to the bodies hearing and PASPEGES and GSEF, while the procedure of n has not been observed. 4152/2013, i.e. the prior consultation and expression procedure, not only an opinion, but a positive opinion from the relevant central government aid unit of the Ministry of Finance. The second issue concerns the fact that this legislative initiative does not really address the problem of the company's viability, a big, time-consuming and growing problem, as it also argued at the hearing of bodies and the new management of the company appointed by the present Government. Problem mainly due to the high industrial, energy and operating costs of the company, the high cost of raw material, the low area performance. Problem of which the response requires a coordinated plan, a coherent study, a specialised military viability of the company, based, inter alia, on the positive aspects of the existing restructuring plan. And I would agree with the relevant Deputy Minister for Finance that we should all contribute in this direction with responsibility, with seriousness and, above all, insightfulness, and this concerns the company's current support. The second provision supplements the second provision. See also Commission Decision C(2015) 4321/2015 on the settlement of late payments to the tax administration. Some comments: First observation. The law is only completed six days after its publication. On 21 March the Commission published the relevant CVT on 27 March, i.e. six days later, the Government signed the CVT supplementing the law. Evidence, at least inadmissibility, if not feasibility. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased The Government in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law refers to the need to regulate tax outstandings for citizens and businesses located, as it says, in a real failure to meet all their obligations as a result of the crisis. Let's take a look at the quantitative information: Recently, of the hundreds of fifty thousand debtors who joined the arrangement - expressly, there were fifteen debtors with more than EUR 300,000 who found and paid directly, in a week, a total of EUR 16.5 million over a total of around EUR 150 million. In other words, in order not to get involved with many numbers, 0.01% of the debtors paid 10% of the receipts in one week. In fact, out of the six companies with debts of more than one million that benefited only from the present government, four had established liabilities before 2010. With regard to the present regulation: In 86, natural and legal persons with debts of more than EUR 1 million, who have so far been subject to the arrangement by a total of three hundred and eighty thousand debtors, some 20 million additional taxes were removed from the total of around 87 million. So - again, so that we do not get involved with numbers - 0.02% of the participants saved 23% of the additional taxes, which is about 8% of the regulated capital. Does anyone, then, reasonably wonder what weakness due to a crisis we are talking about? What real economic weakness does the government refer to? It is obvious that a serious ethical issue arises from this regulation, especially - and we know that - when it comes to monitoring the General Secretariat of Public Revenues it appears that most of the major debtors, based on their tax profile, were able to fulfil their obligations. They just didn't because they were systematicly inconsistent. Third point: The collection is due to the settlement of other regulations and taxes, as the taxpayers have failed to comply with other regulations or have postponed their deadlines to benefit from the new regulations. The result is - and notice - in April, despite the 120 million revenues from the new regulation, total tax revenues are formed at the target level. And the situation is getting much worse in May - in the first 10 days of May - despite about 15 million euros from the new regulation. And you will see the revenue results when they are made public within the next few days. Fourthly, there is an additional reduction in certain debts and revenues, for which SYRIZA, as a military opposition, has always been subject to severe criticism. But today, he forgot about that. Fifth and last: the government considers that it will collect, as the Minister said yesterday, EUR 700 million from the arrangements. We recall that in the famous “Thessaloniki Program” it was expected to receive around EUR 3 billion in 2015. It is therefore landed in its estimates of about one fifth of the originals. It is also good, since in the resources to deal with the humanitarian crisis, landing was at 1/10. And not just that. According to the budget, the law of the previous government provided for revenues amounting to EUR 470 million in 2015. Therefore, any additional positive result, if it occurs, will not be significant and will be mainly due to the large debtors, which were not included in the previous arrangement. And it will be of particular importance to see who will ultimately benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Mr. George Amyras has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, another act of government legislative content. This time it is accompanied by three ministerial and three parliamentary amendments, irrelevant to the content of the legislation. One of these is a delay and another that has been tabled by a colleague from the Independent Greeks - who I see no one in the Chamber today - has to do with arbitrary constructions in Loutraki. So this is an abusive exercise of the duty of the ministers and a miserable legislative practice, which Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou has supported from this Chamber and the President of Parliament. I do not know who is more relieved today by the absence of Mrs Constantopoulou on her journey to Moscow, the President of Parliament or the ministers themselves? Subtitles again, the Minister. But let us now come to the contents of the EBZ Legislative Act. We in Potami believe that the viability and existence of the Greek Sugar Industry is absolutely critical, important and highly necessary. A sugar confectionery creates employment, provides raw materials and high economic value by-products. However, although a monopoly, the Greek industry of Zecharis is a translated example of state failure when the state makes the businessman. I do not think there is any need for any other proof from today's legislative act, which is a kiss of life to keep the Greek Sugar Industry up and not collapse. What Greek Sugar Industry? The one, which since 1963 has been linked to primary production, has had vertical production and unique know-how throughout Europe. The EBZ was the first in Europe to establish a system of contractual agriculture long before that term was discovered in the rest of Europe, about a decade ahead of its time. So the Greek Sugar Industry could be a bright example. Instead, it has come to be a broken company from the failure, partyism and fraud - I will say - governments in terms of their responsibility for the nomination of administrations - party administrations - that brought EBZ into this mess. The New Democracy and the PASOK must admit that in this critical area of the rural economy they have screwed up. Today, then, when Greek taxpayers are asked to put their hand in the pocket again to give the EBZ EUR 30 000 for capital support. EBZ's insecure demands in 2014 have reached 24.590,000 euros. In 2007, ladies and gentlemen, to have one picture, the insecure requirements were only 787,000 euros. Within seven years it was launched at EUR 25,000,000 - about what we are looking for today to keep the Greek Sugar Industry on its feet. I'm going to testify this evidence at the end. It is from the website of the Greek Sugar Industry. Is it to wonder, these administrations have given the sugar over the last seven years? Did they write the money in the book? It is a product that has all the doors on the markets open, a product of monopolistic and high quality - with regard to Greek sugar. Of course, the Minister, Mr Apostlelos, who yesterday told us where the members of the administration lived - five hundred - six hundred miles away from the company's headquarters - should have told us and we would have to wait for evidence on the remuneration of the members of the administration. My research is talking about about 0.5 million euros a year. And these rewards were not at all linked to the result of their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u19	And the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u20	So let's go to the workers too. What is the productivity of workers? We will make a comparison between Greece and Italy. This information is from the Committee of the French Sugar Industries, CEFS Sugar Statistics 2014. I'll testify this at the end, too. In 2014 - let's take the recent use - sugar production in Greece was a hundred sixty thousand tonnes. We had a thousand and twenty employees. Productivity per employee was a hundred forty - three tons. In Italy we had five hundred thousand tonnes of sugar production for 2014 from a thousand six hundred eighty workers. Their productivity was three hundred and twenty tons per worker. This does not mean that Greek workers were lazy - no - but that's how bad stereotypes are born. The problem is that no investments have been made, no renewal of the equipment has been made, and they have remained very far behind the developments in the level of know-how. Where the Greek Sugar Industry was a pioneer in this area, it became urging and accompanied by employees. So we have reached statistical estimates that Greeks seem to be working most hours than any other European, but they have the lowest productivity. The Germans, for example, work the least hours a week than any other European, but they have the highest productivity, because there they work smarter, the economic and labour environment is structured properly and they are not the prey of each party appointed. We, the river, ladies and gentlemen, are in favour of healthy entrepreneurship and cooperation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u21	Finish soon, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u22	We want the Greek Sugar Industry to be a pilot project for the creation of competitive groups of new producers, which will have all of them, for the acquisition of Greek Sugar Industry, the acquisition of the quota, the verticalisation of production and the production and exploitation of a series of byproducts that are marketed abroad. The cane molasses with an amendment to the production process of the EBZ are estimated on the international markets from EUR 18 to EUR 20 per kilo. The fresh pulp and sugar pie, which is high quality feed, are estimated at 16 minutes per kilo while the Greek Sugar Industry could feed its energy needs from the use of peat farming executives. It is a fire-fighting measure, a kiss of life of EUR 300,000,000 for the capital support of the Greek Sugar Industry, but we have not heard, Minister, about the new products, which could produce the five factories - or, in any case, those that operate - such as bioethanol, citric acid and drinking alcohol. To conclude, I would say that our good colleagues, Alexander Hadjimitriou, MP Serres, as well as Spyros Kahrimanis, from the Rural Development and Food Sector of the River, have many documented ideas. They have drawn up a plan on which it is possible to support tomorrow's forces, yes, more than EUR 30 000 000 that we are giving today - but the future is clear - but the goodwill from beet to sugar and by-products would be too great. We, as a river - because we ourselves do and dare - propose, look at the future and believe that you should follow the same path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-nine students and students and five teachers from the 11th Municipal School of Aigleo and the 14th Municipal School of Callitheas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ilias Ioannides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to place myself on the legislative act not only because, as a member of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs or a resident of the region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, I understand what is happening in the operation of sugar factories, but above all because I consider this decision to be of historic importance because it implements our commitment and policy position on the primary sector. It is the first act with huge symbolism for the productive reconstruction of our devastated country. I feel the need to convey from this Step to the Greek people my concern about how the parties of the memorandum faced this difficult truth, the great risk of trying to reopen the Greek Sugar Industry. They pointed out with petty the existing problems that they have created, the difficulties we have because of their own choices and actions. They take us to the legislative act, which they used twenty-seven times, destroying and dismantling all concepts of democracy and democratic functioning. All of this at the same time that we have barely prevented this year's sowing and not from farmers' time and have enabled workers, employees and motorists to work. To the question: 'Act of legislation and operation since this year of the Greek Sugar Industry or normal procedure and waste of the year for farmers, workers and consumers of Greek sugar?' He was in favour of the second option. Otherwise, yesterday Mr Hatzidakis told us that over parties and colors for all of us are the homeland. Are we talking about the same country, Mr. Hatzidakis? Unspoiled fields your homeland with farmers in despair. We beet-growing, at least as an effort, by opening a window of hope and optimism for our farmers. Closed factories you. Open from the first year we. Imported sugar you. We're Greek. Unemployment. We work. We do live in the same country, but your patriotism has not been seen in this debate these days. Micropsy, mediocrity, hypocrisy, sadness. Why is it? Perhaps because this act gives us the stigma of our own efforts, and above all highlights your responsibilities. Perhaps because the relaunch of the economy that we will attempt, starting from the Greek Sugar Industry, is the end of the deindustrialisation that you have achieved with "patriotism". The deindustrialisation of our country is not a new story. A country which has been financially relying on small and large industry and craft industry in the 1960s to the 1980s has changed gross production characteristics over the last thirty years. The left of post-multi-population permeating the present deadlocks of our economic and productive base said: 'We will not become the wardrobes of Europe'. The change in the productive fabric of Greece through the services gave fast and cheap money, but gradually degraded the primary and secondary sector, which must be the engine of a mighty national economy. The European unification has brought economic integration very quickly, an integration that has not left any room for industrial development, not respecting the rural economy, not respecting the country's long-standing productive paths, but which, however, loves to sell services and praises the post-real economy by pouring on beaches, even selling the sea itself. Eastern Macedonia and Thrace saw large-scale industries shut down, leaving behind unemployment and misery. Softex and tobacco have taken their way to Bulgaria and Turkey since Europe's productive map has not taken them. The era of modernization has folded small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and left only the great players to make lisverish. In the Memorandum of Understanding with the destruction of income and demand, the industry has fallen even further. The government's response to a short-eyed and unsuccessful productive model can only be the country's economic and productive reconstruction. We need a strong industrial policy that will strengthen the primary and secondary sectors. The viability of the Greek Sugar Industry is the first measure of our country's productive reconstruction programme. Greek Industry is the only sugar producer in Greece that had annexes to Larissa, Platis Imathia, Serres, Xanthi and Orestiada. It was a pillar of the economy in previous years and with the sale of the Agricultural Bank where it held 82.3 shares, Piraeus Bank completely undermined the future of the company. On this occasion, I would say that Mr Lafazanis described the sale of the Agricultural Bank as a'scandal of the century'. Minister, do not let this crime be unrelenting and unpunished against Greek farmers and the Greek people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The paralytic policies followed by the previous conflict in everything that was a state-owned property also reached the Greek Sugar Industry at this point. Their abstention in what was under state control, regardless of whether it was profitable or not, made them socially analgesic with the poorest strata of Greek society. Their avenger logic almost led to the industry of customs producers being devastated. With this EUR 30,000,000, we give the opportunity to a potential profitable company to grow and also to customs producers the opportunity not to be destroyed. Being in such times, it is time to lay the foundations for a new productive model that the government's political planning does not require, but the needs of our society and the need for farmers to be able to place their crops in a healthy business and not let it rot in warehouses. It needs to be insisted and supported by the public in such a business that in due course, despite the very competitive environment, the Greek Sugar Industry can export a product. All of us today need to stand up to the circumstances and not to make policies with micro-party benefits. Pillars of the country's production and economy should be in full agreement with the products it produces and its needs. Neoliberal recipes dissolved the country's productive tissue. The policies followed cannot be costed by the banking interests and not by the needs of our people. We cannot stand up to the doctrine of the small and flexible state sacrificing our productive tissue. You should know that the Greek Sugar Industry is only the beginning of a package of measures that will have the productive reconstruction of the country, the strengthening of the economy, in full correspondence with the needs of society and the "I" of our people. Our aim is the productive reconstruction that will focus and serve the needs of the people and not the profits of the few. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr Ioannides. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you will allow me to make a comment on the legislative procedure and its political adoption by the government, which, as an opposition, broke out its clothes whenever such an act existed. The Government's argument is that the number of legislative acts adopted during the previous parliamentary term was very large, and now it is too small - two or three so far. But if we make a comparison of the number of bills voted by this House with the number of bills voted by the previous one, we will see that the percentage is huge. But that's not all. I would remind you that before the procedure was completed in this Chamber for the adoption of the relevant law on the regulation of debts in the public sector, at the same time the legislative act was processed, otherwise it is not explained that a few hours later it was only ready, tabled and signed by the Prime Minister. Are you going to tell me, is this a meltdown? Perhaps they did not do a serious job by the people who worked out the bill on debt regulation in the public sector, got them some idea and then did an act of legislative content. This is the "hot" version. However, there is another version, which says that in the matter of exempting funds from cash fines, with fines for surcharges, etc., for specific persons and businesses, the act is individual, of the Prime Minister himself. Because, in this way, he wanted to pass a certain message. Since no clear explanation has been given, therefore, because the need to act has emerged and why the provision has not been made, or why no amendment has been tabled, or why this matter has not been legislated in any other way on the part of the government, everyone can think about anything. Of course, clear conclusions can be drawn as soon as we make the accounts for the members of this regulation. That will give us concrete evidence. My own position - and I believe everyone - should be that this constitutional instrument, because it is not unconstitutional, that the Constitution gives this instrument, should really be used when it is impossible to legislate otherwise. In this case, neither the House had any holidays nor bills to join. Of course, if we account for the weeks from February to today when we have legislative work, we will see that by 60% we are sitting. And because there is a lot of talk, 60% of the pay we have received as parliamentarians must return it. 60 percent of the time we sit, 70% of the time before. In the last two - three weeks, yes, there is intensive work. The last time you remember what happened? Therefore, while the House did not have a workload, while there were no official holidays in this House - summer, Christmas or Easter - there is an act of legislative content in ethos, which regulates what is due to the state of particular individuals and businesses. I now come to the question of imposing a new tax on farmers. First of all, we must say that, until now, there has been in no way, as in other countries of the European Union, a tax on subsidies for agricultural subsidies and, of course, compensation. There was no mention anywhere and there was no legalization in the past. And today the government comes to introduce, for the first time, the taxation of agricultural aid and subsidies, those from the common agricultural policy. This has been the case for the first time in our country, and we must point it out. The fact that it comes under cover, and with the argument of exempting up to 12 000 subsidies, that says nothing. For the first time, therefore, it breaks what applied as both Greece and all the countries of the European Union, i.e. duty-free aid. Next year he will come with a provision and say to the Communist Party "Yes, last year I promised you that the poor medium-sized farmers will have them tax-free" and next year another Minister will come, or probably himself, or another government, or probably the same one, and he will say "We cannot tax from 0 euro". This does not, therefore, compensate for the introduction for the first time of the tax on aid. There could be dialogue, there could be a different way of dealing. There was no such dialogue. It's lightning on this piece of legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is, of course, coming to respond, rather to an argument by the government regarding the inability to deal with the tax which has been passed in the past period. We have a tax on farmers who has loopholes and the additional arrangements that are being made will lead to the overtaxation of farmers. We have proposed that, even for the first time this year, the revenue and expenditure system should be applied to the government, that the Ministry of Finance should accept the expenditure as an equivalent to 20% of the revenue, without documentary evidence, so that there is a balance between the damage that farmers will suffer. He does not go on doing so, even though he thinks it makes sense, because - he says - he cannot, at the same time, legislate twice for the tax. But if that's possible! And it comes with its amendment to introduce the taxation of agricultural aid, and at the same time it tells us that it cannot correct an error of the previous government, the previous parliament or the Ministry of Finance. The provision should be added as a legislative improvement - we propose it - that, as a cost for the incomes of 2014 to those farmers who submit tax declarations on the basis of the revenue-cost system, an amount equal to 20% of the revenues without documents. These two lines must be added, so that there can be a smoothening of the problem. I would ask the Minister once again to consider it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today in plenary session we are discussing the ratification of the act of legislative content to regulate the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry and the outstanding debts. From the debate held in the committee responsible, various very interesting aspects were highlighted in both articles of the legislative act. With regard to late payments, the success of adjusting the percentage of n’s doses was clearly seen. Regulation (EU) No 512/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision A very large number of our fellow citizens have responded and joined the funds in order to settle their obligations towards the public. The size, however, of the success of the regulation is seen by the fact that debts from previous decades were collected which for tax administration were truly uncollectible. The regulation introduced by this act of law also provides for the deletion of certain additional taxes or charges, which are incorporated into the principal debt. This regulation in no way brings about deletion of fines for infringements of VAT legislation, the Customs Code or the Code of Books and Elements, so that we do not have any misunderstandings. After all, this is not the first time that additional taxes are deleted or regulated. Already with n. 2523/1997 provided for a reduction of these taxes and later laws still provided for favourable treatment for these additional taxes. Unfortunately, all these provisions have been repealed since 2011. If there were any, many companies might not have been in a difficult position to get to the paddock. As regards the regulation to ensure the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry, no significant disagreements emerged in committee. However, a number of parameters have emerged, around the Greek agricultural industry, primary production and national strategies in the primary sector. Firstly, the downturn in industry has its roots in losing a significant part of the quotas for beet cultivation, with the 2006 CMO. The growing of sugar beet in our country was dramatically reduced at this hump point. As a direct result we had the rapid reduction in the quantity of sugar produced in the Greek factories, launching the cost of production at heights. So this is where the collapse of industry begins. Damages, non-performance of loans, insecure claims, etc. are beginning. Secondly, the wrong strategic options were followed, which led to a new deterioration in the sugar sector. The choice for investment in biodiesel, for example, proved ineffective for industry and the industry. Instead of supporting choices to strengthen sugar production, where as a country we are a deficit, emphasis was placed on an area that was untimely and badly designed. Cost? Sixty million euros. Thirdly, wrong policies of the company’s previous management have emerged. As of 2010, the company’s downturn was clearly apparent, those actions that could reverse the situation were not taken. On the contrary, the loan reached a wonderful height. This is where the great responsibilities of the then Agricultural Bank and the subsequent Piraeus Bank are added. Clearly, the aim of the government is to ensure, but also to develop, the operation of the Greek Sugar Industry and by extension of the domestic production of sugar and butter crops. It cannot, of course, be claimed that this legislative act ensures the development of the company. However, what is guaranteed is the temporary operation of the company. The timber industry has a high degree of know-how in production, high expertise and fixed investment. The Greek beet has a high sugar title and the disposal of sugar is ensured. Therefore, the issues that have emerged and have to do with the new strategy to be followed in primary production are opening up a new cycle of political debate now. The role of the financial system in the agricultural industry, processing and primary production should be reviewed. The policy of interest rates followed by the Agricultural Bank in recent years and then the Piraeus Bank overcompensated the primary sector and processing. In fact, I asked the committee a question to the representatives of Piraeus Bank about what the real capital it went to the Greek Sugar Industry in relation to the 159 million presently shown as loans to the industry as well as the interest that was capitalised. The answer was not given. I think that the bank representatives might not be properly prepared. But we need to see the whole question of the agricultural industry in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u29	They didn't want to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u30	Possibly. Let's say it more politely, Mr. Comrade. I believe, however, that today's legislative act gives the company's new management the necessary time to redesign its strategy and also the Ministry to intervene decisively in the development of policies, leaving behind the reasonable subsidy management that has been followed in previous years. Here we should welcome the proposed tax exemption of EUR 12 000 for European subsidies and the exclusion of all of the ELGA allowances. Let us remind the honourable Members that according to n. Article 21 and 29 of the 2013 Tax Act on income for 2014 is considered as income, which is taxed, the total of subsidies and the total of the allowances. Today, therefore, the government, with the amendment introduced, sets the limit of EUR 12 000 tax free, as well as the exclusion of compensation as a whole from taxable agricultural income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Arachovite. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that from the above Western theories we are attending our meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and the way in which this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall thirty-six students and students as well as two teachers from the "KASARI". We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides]] Mr. Sevastakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Perhaps one wonders how a man, with cognitive objects in education and, deals with a question of a productive nature. However, I am one of those who believe that the productive demands of the country are very much related to a conception, with an average, around production. I will not go along with the categorisation made by our rapporteur, Mr Lapavitsa, for the services that were swelled, reached 82%, compared with the industry which fell to 14% and agricultural production, which fell to 4%. I think that in the new economy this is linked. A very large part of the industry is services and the reversal. But another national fantasy was created, which did not contain and does not contain production. In a way, production culture has been distorted and became a civilization of an employee, a grant manager, a well-appointed and so-called fruit of the subsidy. This very precise account of Mr Apostle yesterday, which described the schizophrenic situation in the sugar industry, actually reflects these exceptional contradictions, which are also integrated into its production and management policy. Approximately what applies to the Greek Sugar Industry, it applies to too many production structures. So, what do we have? Lending pressure, inconvenient organisation and mismanagement and corruption, a political deficit in how Greece negotiated with European structures, integration, integration and the good and the regulatory part, namely, how it incorporated the code, the rule and how this rule, instead of helping production aid, became forced and inactive mechanism. The way European Union rules work today is more suppressing than it is strengthening. So this distortion we see it running too many industries and cooperative attempts, and it actually broke down a fundamental relationship. The agricultural industry, or the agricultural industry, is masculinating in agricultural production, i.e. in the primary sector, or is breaking down its relationship. So to us, there is a breakthrough in this fundamental relationship - it has been described by the well-known, the previous speakers - of the customs producers with the industry. It is certain that regulation is a political decision. You have all seen that it is not the solution to the problem or that it does not guarantee sustainability. That's right. However, it is one - I think - political choice. I do not leave a single accounting assessment, as Mr Hatzidakis' technique suggests: 'it is a loss, I do not touch it, I let it collapse, that is what the arithmetic of things say'. I'm making the decision to keep it. But it is the small part, which must be followed by the great, which is to redesign and reentry into the concept of useful. The whole problem is that, at least in the 1980s, many industrial structures, firms in difficulty, have been disguised, renovated, without actually being renovated, this blow, this burglary, the erosion of the internal market, we are collecting it today. We're full of productive ghosts as a country and I don't know if the political system can give an easy answer to this. There are divergent opinions, divergent speakers and how it could manage better in this way or otherwise, but, in our problem, at the centre and core, it is this question. I would like to say that the new concept is an open concept of production, which becomes part of a culture, a cultural understanding of our productive self. And I think we should see the development of both the sugar industry and the other small scattered industrial residues that we have as a country, with this new openness. We also need to have a very strong negotiating conscience. The negotiation has its roots, but it also has the small part, which is how a Minister or a technocrat can get a time credit or a hybrid indulgence from the European Union. On these terms, which I do not think are a political optimism or a political morality, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative act that we are debating today is the first of the SYRIZA-ANEL co-government. We stigmatized her with all the power we had when she was issued. The Coupling Response was a second MIP with a minimum distance from the previous one. Then came the categorical statement by a minister that they will bring more, 'as much as they need', as he said. It could also, if it understood the nature of the act of legislation, say: we will rape the rule of law as often as necessary, but obviously it does not even understand what it is all about. In its first legislative act, therefore, the coup d'état, after having published two, in packs of one. The first article of the Act of Legislation refers, as has already been mentioned, to the payment of 30m euros to the Greek Sugar Industry, while the second one to a completely irrelevant subject to the first one, namely the extension of Law No.4321/2015, which had been voted on a few days ago. From the day the act was adopted, however, it took sufficient time, so the government thought to enrich the MDG. He also added amendments to the legislative act. With legal acrobatics, which allow for the invoicing of sex of regular formal law, the old two articles of the PPP have been validated, adding some more, heirous always, arrangements by means of amendments initiated by the permits for kiosks, as far as organizational issues are concerned with the Ministry of Development. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, are you thinking of the fabulous - to say notorious? - a legislative act of 2012. Do you remember that PPP issued on 9 November 2012 and amended provisions of Law 4093/12? They were the amendments of the medium-term, which was passed on the same day. On the same day the law was passed, with an act of legislative curiosity amended. Behold, the field of glorious glory! Apparently, you're going to get over them. However, the contents of this act of legislation are not the subject of my speech, although every good-looking question could be asked why the issue of the Sugar Industry, which was known from the first day of the Parliament's formation, did not even come as one of the many amendments - in a normal procedure - adopted in previous legislations and required a legislative act to solve it, that is to say, something which cannot be discussed and cannot be called into question, and which comes essentially only for a formal ratification. The object of the criticism is not even the possible instability of regulation or even the lack of a plan of governance. This is confessed and now seems within the hundred days that there is no governance plan. This is not even the subject of criticism. The object of the criticism is the rape of the state-law and institutions by the "first time left" government, which, as opposition, correctly conquered the practice of the previous New Democracy-PASOK coup d'état, which had transformed the extraordinary PPP process into a tactical one. The bypass of Parliament and the lifting of the distinction of powers with the implementation of the legislation were all supported. It has been said many times, but I have to repeat this all the time, because the attempt of misthridism, which you are trying to constantly bypassing the normal procedures of parliamentary life, must be stigmatized. So all that has been pointed out at the outset and by the Prime Minister, as well as by the President of Parliament, is cancelled by you. Even a few days ago, when the President of Parliament raised a question of constitutional amendments that came at the last minute in a bill, even then you deaf. But if you are now following this procedure and this parliamentary practice, the question is: what will come into the future? In both legislative acts, Ratio was the same. Invoke exceptional emergency and unforeseen circumstances. That, at least, says the Constitution and the law. Both urgency and unforeseenness are seen by you as self-proof. That is to say, your claims must apply to the office. The parliamentary majority, which you have here, is being transformed into an instrument for cynical circumvention of the established parliamentary procedure. We will point it out to you, but you do not care. In order to paraphrase a revulsion of the Aristo-Blue Mansis you say to us: 'You are wrong, because you are a minority'. Once again, the Greek state does not have the means to prevent such burdens. It is therefore up to you and your own practice towards the rule of law. Once again, I am very sorry that a left-wing government has passed six bills: two by normal procedure, two by legislative act and two by urgent procedure. So I regret the normalisation of the exception. I regret the fact that you are moving firmly to circumvent parliamentary procedures and you are killing the rule of law. In this sense, you are dangerous to the parliamentary procedure and to upgrade the rule of law. Your practice shows the contempt for them, which you have supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by pointing out that now that we are in an emergency or war situation, as you like to remind us, now is the time when those who believe in parliamentary democracy and who consider the rule of law to be a unique obstacle to authoritarianism must react with a narrow voice, not with whispers and false excuses. The River exposes this voice with as much power as it has. We expect the same from all the wings of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Constantine Seltsas will be followed by SYRIZA. Following Mr Selcha, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has requested the floor. Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we did not know until the end of March what exactly the phrase 'first time on the left' means, which, with great complacentness, you repeated, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, over the last period. Two months had passed for the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict and we had not noticed any other government activity until 23 March and at last the government legislated - not in Parliament - because there was an emergency and had to legislate by decree, by legislative act. What was that emergency? Describe the tax fines for infringements of the Tax and Customs Code, i.e. fines for smuggling, for the issue of virtual invoices, for the concealment of tax matters, for VAT non-reimbursable and for other breaches that had been established. The bill that we are discussing today is a clear example of the contradictions and the sluggishness of coexistence, traits that we see dominated throughout the entire range of government's moves. First of all, let me say a few words about the Greek Sugar Industry: It goes without saying that we need to see the issue of customs producers with responsibility and seriousness. It is obvious that sustainable and realistic solutions are needed. However, this cannot be done by acrobatics and actions, which only raise questions. Does the government have a concrete plan for the next day? Is there going to be specific initiatives for her reassurance? Is there going to be a restructuring of her debt? Will a private investor, if any, be sought, as was the case in the past? There are very specific questions and they ask for specific answers. And it is very easy to plunder, to create impressions, to repeat mistakes that we have made in the past and we have paid a heavy price in the years of the crisis. Let us now move on to the issue of late payment: The act of legislation we are coming to ratify today favours large debtors, who, in addition to the exemptions of surcharges for the time of the delay in the reimbursement of taxes - income, VAT, charges and others - are now exempted by up to 100% of the fines imposed on them by tax controls. In other words, the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government extends, to the benefit of the major debtors, the arrangement for the partial repayment of late tax debts up to a hundred instalments. The companies that will join will have a discount of up to 100%, not only on the surcharges, as I have told you, but also on the additional taxes. These amounts were not included in the arrangement provided for in the original regulation for the hundred instalments, since under tax legislation they are considered to be amounts which belong to the original public debts. Thus, the DUs and customs considered these amounts to be part of the initial debt, i.e. the initial capital rather than the surcharges and the late payment interest. The left government, which is supposed to be non-discriminatory and act horizontally, has also covered the debts of all kinds of tax violations. Let us add the following point: The regulation of the legislative act includes independent debts - even more than a million euros - provided for in the previous partial repayment arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u37	It is not in practice legislative. He's in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u38	Madam Minister, don't interrupt. Note your remarks and you will speak in next speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u39	But there is no such thing in the legislative act.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u40	Let's not have a dialogue. Keep your remarks on the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u41	In any case, winners are the great ones who have the ability to pay, thus saving huge sums. The regulation has a horizontal application, and the same criteria apply to everyone, regardless of the amount of income and property. So, what's the government doing? It takes with one hand the money of the municipalities and the insurance funds, that is, the money of the citizens, and on the other it gives it to the offenders of tax and customs laws. On substance, it is a regulation of tax amnesty in favour of the shares of capital, as the Left would normally say. All the above, ladies and gentlemen, show in the clearest way fragmentation, clandestineness, desperation, I would say, of the government to deal with the problem that has accumulated over the last three months. Let me remind everyone once again of the criticism of the then opposition against the use of legislative acts by the previous government. I would also like to stress the reluctance of speeches and actions for a new, left-wing government, which has taken us all the previous years, shaking the finger, its moral, political advantage. I would like to highlight the worrying preoccupation with which the current government is facing both the important issue of the Sugar Industry and the issue of overdue debts. I would like to express my deep concern at the ongoing crises that the government is creating with all the institutions abroad, but also in Greece. A characteristic example is the attempt to undermine, even the Governor of the Bank of Greece. Finally, I want to squeeze the alarm and say something I have been repeating all the time: the real economy is in danger. The liquidity problem is exacerbated every day. The government must understand the obvious: the Greek economy is not going well. The uncertainty that prevails is pushing it into a generalised deregulation of all indicators. The days are running out. Time rolls in reverse and at our expense. Give solutions now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Mr. Constantine Seltsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill belongs to the series of legislation, which is moving towards the implementation of the Thessaloniki programme, at least as far as its economic part is concerned. Its two arms include the axes on which we prioritise and are the following: Social protection of the affected strata from the crisis and the productive reconstruction of the country. In particular, the support of the Greek Sugar Industry, which was led to the closure by the Memorandum governments, is included in these axes. The Greek Sugar Industry is a company that produces a strategic product and operates as a link between the primary and secondary production sectors, giving support to the producers and work to numerous workers and scientists of Northern Greece's unemployment-threatening region, which at the time is also the case for a country like Greece that faces unemployment. Personally, I come from a region that is a logistical region. Many of my fellow citizens are still struggling for the fate of this industry. The structural sizes of logging in Greece have been downwards since 2006 when the common agricultural production has been revised in the sugar sector until 2011. It is indicative that some forty-two thousand hectares of sugar beet were grown in 2005, while some six thousand hectares were cultivated in 2011. This reduction, as you can see, has been dramatic. This led to the inability to cover the national sugar quota, with a 50% reduction and the closure of certain factories. As if not all of this were possible, the option of even being covered by this reduced quota, with fascist production in third countries, seems to me to have been an incomprehensible option, when our country's comparative advantages for the production of beet are obvious. Even if it were not, I think it would be preferable for Greek farmers to work, by increasing the GDP of the country, rather than focusing only on the economic indicators of a business. The treatment of the Greek Sugar Industry by the previous governments was criminal. We have a duty to show this political crime before the Greek people and to seek whatever responsibilities. The impunity against the Greek people must end. It is crucial that representatives of the people stand next to those seeking justice. In-depth research into previous mismanagement is the best guarantee that no such phenomena will be repeated in the new situation. As far as political responsibilities are concerned, I would like to say this: if some large European companies had an interest in reducing the quota to 50% and the subsequent closure of the factories, we have had the opposite as a country because of the consequences mentioned above. And the parties at that time should explain what they did when they represented the country in the European institutions to prevent such a development. It is only in closure and financial flare that such policies lead to such policies and not to growth, as they promised. The Ministry will certainly have a better picture and will present a restructuring plan with an organisational chart that will change the situation to the best. Politically speaking, I would like to express my opinion on the points that need to be taken into consideration: In addition to the mismanagement, which I mentioned above, optimisation needs to be made at all stages of production, from the field to the processing, the distribution network and financial management. We could consult one of the country's very worthy educational and research institutions and care should be taken to store and protect sugar from stock markets. Finally, either with energy production or by-products that can be used to enrich agricultural land, feed, the pharmaceutical industry and the multilateral industry, ways and actions must be sought so that the benefits can be as much as possible for the Greek Sugar Industry and a viable business, offering the Greek people and the Greek state what it can actually offer. The urgency was to save the industry, and we have had a hurry to overthrow a contrary development. If one sees the course of the share, as well as the last barren competitions, one understands that the project was to be dissolved in ones, in the interests of competition. From there on, we need a serious and appropriate redesign for the Greek Sugar Industry, in order to involve even greater parts of producers in the production process. We are talking about at least threefold agricultural production to reopen the factories that have been closed down. That must be the next target. With regard to the urgent procedure under which this act of legislation came into force, this also shows our difference from the 'black front' of the memorandum. It was for them urgent to sell the country and to burn the labour rights. We urgently support the weak and the rebuilding of the country's productive structures. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of the bill. Thank you. I'm sorry about the Sardams, but this is the first time I've been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Selcha. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentary representative, I have an obligation to spend many hours in the Chamber and, of course, to listen to many speakers from all parties. Therefore, I hear many interesting things that sometimes surprise me. I heard, to say, a very interesting speech by Mr Sevastakis before, a different approach from a man who comes from another area, not the economy, and who mentioned very interesting things about how he perceives productive reconstruction. However, I have listened with great interest to Mr Selca - and I should like to congratulate him on his first speech from the Stepma of the House - on making reference to the programme of Thessaloniki. This conversation in the Chamber, Ministers and Minister, has been heard a few months now. What really happened to Thessaloniki's program? Where did you remember that again? Is there still? Is this a blush of government commitments? As far as I can remember, the Thessaloniki programme provided for benefits of 11 billion, while your last communication with the troika, with the institutions - I apologise for the Sardam - seems to us to be the leaks to prepare us for fiscal measures of between 4 and 5 billion. I therefore welcome the reintroduction to SYRIZA's programme of orthodoxy and I expect the ministers to explain exactly how the legislative act is linked to the implementation of the Thessaloniki programme. A lot has been said about the use of the tool of the act of legislative content. I will not expand any further. The committee, as well as Members of all the parties in plenary, was strongly criticised, with the exception of, of course, SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] I will just say that yesterday the House actually came first. It succeeded, in one day, in discussing and voting for an urgent bill - which was only urgent - and it was not, as was shown by the positions of the competent ministers - to launch a debate on an act of legislative substance which the Government and the President of Parliament itself condemned, until two months ago, and at the same time to vote on a series of delayed amendments. All this happened within a day. I am only saying this because the hypocrisy of good legislature goes beyond this Chamber. And it would be a good thing if you were a little more steadfast when you heard, with a lot of cardinals, criticism of bad practices actually followed in this Chamber. And at some point, it should stop being an alibi that, because of the previous ones, we will do so too. I now come to the substance of the ratification of the legislative act, which contains two articles. The first concerns the exceptional grant, by way of derogation from all the provisions - regulation, special liquidation, credit institutions, bankruptcy law - of the Greek Sugar Industry. The first question I would like to raise and for which I did not receive an answer - at least the Minister responsible, Mr Lafazanis, has not been placed subsequently - is whether this exceptional grant constitutes State aid or not. Has the central government aid unit of the Ministry of Finance expressed an opinion? And if so, how does this matter come about? Mrs. Kerameos developed this argument in detail. I won't come back. But you do understand that it is not possible today to discuss an exceptional grant for a deeply problematic company, without taking into account this parameter. Because if this grant is indeed illegal state aid, it is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that this problem will be re-discovered. Of course, I have not heard much from the Minister responsible about the conditions under which, Minister, Mr Apostleos, this industry can again - if possible - be sustainable. I would remind you of what Mr Hatzidakis said, our rapporteur, in his position: The Greek Sugar Industry is a deeply problematic business. We are not concerned enough, because the business is so problematic. I personally understood, following the debate in committee, but also the procedure for hearing the bodies, that there are various reasons why this company has now reached the point that it has been given due obligations close to EUR 150 million, and of course - most importantly - to have a production cost which is close to EUR 1 000 per tonne when it sells EUR 500 per tonne sugar. Various explanations may exist as to how it is possible for a business to have been in such a dramatic situation. Bad management of previous administrations? Possibly yes. However, the industry may have paid very precise prices to producers and had very high operating costs, due to the fact that it had too many workers paid excessive wages. I would like the Minister to confirm to me or deny, the information I have obtained and withdrew, that is to say, that even today the Greek Sugar Industry - the one factory that has left - has two hundred seventy workers, paid last year - an average of monthly wages - with around EUR 3,500 and also four hundred eighty-year-old workers. And that's for a business that I remember operating a few months a year. So the substance of the debate we need to have here, Minister, is to look soberly at whether this industry can be sustainable if there is a real resolution plan, if it can be sold in the private sector, and why, despite the efforts of the previous government, no investor was finally found to invest in this industry. Shouldn't this reality worry us? Will we, as representatives of the citizens and Greek taxpayers, accept subsidising a company that is not viable? We're gonna put money in a barrel without the bottom? I don't know the answer. But you must know her. And you are due, if anything, to justify this exceptional grant, to present to the National Representation a structured resolution plan. I wish that the country could have a dynamic sugar production, that there are customs producers who, in a competitive way, can produce the raw material, which is absorbed by a factory to process sugar and sell the finished product. That would be a wishful task. The question is whether, with this sugar market treaty, this is a reality, which is possible. Because if we do not answer this basic question, you will soon be called - and the National Representation will be called again soon - to face enormous problems in an operation which, as it seems, does not seem to have the prospect of being sustainable. I therefore look forward to your thoughts on these questions, Mr Minister, and Mr Lafazanis, who have the general responsibility of the process of productive reconstruction. Because if we accept - and I put aside the problem of State aid - that we want to have subsidised sugar production, then when this argument is to be stopped? What other industries should be subsidised in the name of a national industrial policy? Please tell us and explain how much more you will charge the Greek taxpayer with these practices. I now come to the second article in the relevant amendment, that is, the one concerning late payment. The Minister is here. I see her. She's talking to her partners. Mrs Valvain, there has been no adequate explanation of what changed in six days from the vote on No.4321 until the publication of the act of law in order to justify this change, this addition which deletes fines. I read it exactly: ‘... late submission or non-declaration or inaccurate declaration of L.4174/2013’. What changed just within six days and were you forced to make this recast? I asked you what benefit this regulation benefits and I think that no one will disagree with you. First of all, I would like to say that I am not questioning your good intentions at all, and I also appreciate that you are a very working minister, who despite having no familiarity with the subject, you have sincerely referred to the great effort you are making to familiarise yourself with tax legislation and I realise that this is not easy. But I am not going to criticise you for not knowing tax before you take up that office. But I asked you in committee something very specific: who benefit from this arrangement and, above all, what great debtors benefit from this arrangement and whether there were large debtors who could use this arrangement and could not make use of the previous one and how many fines they may have escaped from their accession to this arrangement? I read in the newspapers - and I would like you to confirm it or deny it - that big business, last named big bars in Mykonos, which owed EUR 7.5 million, has speeded up and made use of the regulation, has tabled EUR 2.8 million cash, which means that it had the money - to save EUR 5 million. Is it true or isn't it? I don't know if it's true, but it was published in the paper. But if it is to be confirmed that this provision is not a provision which benefits the small one who is not able to pay, but benefits the large one who has his money in the bank and expects the best regulation, if necessary in consultation with the government, so that he can delete fines. Of course, there is also the other major issue concerning the debts of PAOK. Mr Savvidis went - I read - and paid EUR 10.3 million and deleted all the fines. Did he have it or didn't he have it before? I wonder. If he had them before, he couldn't get into the previous arrangement? So when we criticised you, not because you did the regulation, but because you abolished the limit of 1 million, that is exactly where I was referring. We will therefore wait for some explanations in the national delegation and, as you can see, nothing is finally hidden. It's all revealed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in two minutes' time I shall end. There is no doubt that this regulation, both from previous regulations and from Mr von Wogau's. 4321, which I would remind you that we have, of course, voted in favour, of our opposition to the abolition of the limit of 1 million, and many small ones also benefit. You mentioned the evidence yesterday and no one disputes that. After all, Mr. 4321 what is it? It is a small improvement to a regulation, which we have brought together. But our objection is to the great debtors, to the systematicly inconsistent, and I wonder how tolerance to them is compatible with the "first time on the left", which you declare on every ton. Ladies and gentlemen, the time-lapstick is now empty and as we enter for good in May, and as this negotiation is now drawing to the fourth of the month, it is time for you to do a comprehensive account of what you have achieved so far as the government is concerned. I, what I see is that the lenders have not moved a single point of their claims. The process remains the same, evaluation by the institutions, completion of the current programme, the same issues that were on the agenda for our day, working, insurance, remain the same today. I see the Greek side going into a number of issues, more importantly with the issue of taxation. You see, the red lines, when there's no money, fade quickly into a pink pale. I see the country returning to recession, and I wonder if the Minister for Productive Reconstruction is concerned with this, the fact that the country is returning to recession, after two quarters of growth, pale but growth. I see the government also looking everywhere for riot victims. Everyone is to blame for this government, apart from itself, the opposition, the means, the complexity, the Zionist conspiracy. The mosquitoes - spies that some might imagine circulating in this Chamber too, even the Governor of the Bank of Greece is your fault. If you're having a situation with the Governor of the Bank of Greece, say it clearly. Don't hide behind reports. And why not, get a regulation - because you are being disturbed by the independent authorities - and set a limit of sixty years and for the Governor of the Bank of Greece. So if you have a problem with the independence of the Bank of Greece, say it openly and do not use underground blows against an institution. Why do you have to understand something very simple, that when you stand against Mr Stournara, or rather against the Governor of the Bank of Greece, you are at the same time looking against Mr Draghi, who at the same time begging you to raise the interest rates, even if you are able to win 2 to 3 billion, to pay for the obligations you have. So finish the deal. We're here, as we told you, to support you. But watch something and I'm closing with it. We won't consent to tax increases so that Mr. Katrugalos can go back to recruit. Let's make this clear once and for all. The private sector paid for this crisis once, will not pay it back a second time, so that you can increase the state, rebuild your customer relations on the backs of the small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed, the private worker. In such tax policies, do not expect consent from the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students of the Department of Public Administration of the University, together with five of their teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your visit to Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. George Ursouzidis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have respected children who are the future of the balance that has fallen over recent years on the country, because you are simply not owed anything to anyone, the main objection to the part of the act of legislation on the regulation of certain debts to the tax administration is that it is a fine act. We are accused of having made a charitable arrangement for the glamorists, in other words, those who exceed EUR 1 million. And it is said by those who are well aware that since 1997 and even earlier citizens' debts from tax violations of all kinds were unable to collect them. You come in 2013, you increase these debts, instead of taking care to collect them, and then register these increased debts in the state budget, creating a virtual picture of the Greek people, that of the surplus. A surplus, of course, in expectations, in unadulterated promises of a policy that literally eradicated from the map businesses and free professionals in the patterns of economic policy in North Korea. You have proved yourself faithful followers of the distorting applications of existing socialism. This policy has been highly hypocritical at the same time, since you know very well that the repayments of these debts were virtually zero, because, while they were created in conditions - supposedly - development, you are calling on these same companies in conditions of economic devastation, in 2013, to respond with incredible increments of 3% a month, please! One wonders: Is there a sign of seriousness in this policy that has been implemented in recent years? I will say nothing more, but I must stress that the collection of these debts, according to statements by the Minister responsible in this Chamber, did not exceed 0,05%. In other words, in order for the citizen to understand, every million you expected to collect EUR 500 corresponded to what actually entered the public funds. That was the policy and one wondered whether your policy was to hold the citizens hostage for many years, applying and indirectly imposing your choices. With the implementation of the legislative act, several hundred million euros have already been invaded into state funds. The question now is to create the conditions in the real economy, so that these arrangements relating to more than EUR 2 billion can be sustainable, while you expect them to be collected around EUR 700 million by 2023. The most important thing, however, is that the ostrichism of the tax administration stops and there are conditions for reintegration into the process of producing businesses and natural persons, while at the same time abolishing the hostage status, as mentioned above. I now come to the sugar issue. This company has been operating since 1960. It was the main pillar of standardisation for agricultural production and it did offer the Greek economy, in conditions of the rich cows. In recent years, according to the report of the Greek Sugar Industry, there have always been serious problems relating to the functioning, structural problems that the company has, injurious uses, liquidity problems, as a result of the price collapse, as stated in the Greek Sugar Industry's explanatory note. It is worth stressing that the damage is going on. 2008 was EUR 7.5 million, 2009 was EUR 47.5 million, 2010 was EUR 34 million, 2011 was EUR 17 million, 2012 was EUR 1 million, 2013 was EUR 11 million and 2014 was EUR 57 million. I repeat that these are elements of the Greek Sugar Industry's introductory note. So one wonders why, with this image presented by the Sugar Industry itself, one should give EUR 30 million to operate the factory. I was very problematic about the image that a man who manages foreign money must give. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In short, unfortunately, I have to say that the first to pay the price is the farmer himself, who invested in a series of infrastructures, from tools that would be useless to him, if he shuts down this factory and those euphoria, noble banking institutions, to which all farmers have been charged, will be invited to sell their fields and homes, in order to cope with them. That's a factor. Second factor. Sugar workers should come to unemployment, with an environment particularly difficult to find a job to meet the demands of life. Third. Is it possible to close an industry, which has a privileged character, in relation to where we live, at the level of the Balkans? As the representative from Potami quite rightly said, it is an activity which we are claiming almost monopolisticly. So there is that reason, under which one is sacrificing these thirty million, taking risk from people who are fighting, from people who work for five hundred, six hundred, seven hundred euros, and producing this wealth. We take them, we give them and we trust them to some people. As far as the choices made in the composition of the Board of Directors are concerned, I have already given my opinion to the Committee on Production. I don't agree, other things I've been waiting for. I was expecting people from those who have studied and literally grabbed foreign markets, with subversive ideas, with ideas that give another perception of what is called production, to administer the administration of this factory. But I hope that next year too I will come here, from this Step and talk about being exaggerated in some of my places. They heard me in production, and I was heard here today by the workers. They will never see me again, nor will I go into intervention, to say, "Give him, do that, do the other thing." They know and they will remember me when they receive such annoyance, because that was a reality of many years in the past. Thank you and wish you a success.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Diamandopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is fully compatible with two points in the complexes, which will help to rebuild our economy, and therefore our own country. The first part concerns the relaunch of the economy. To relaunch the economy there cannot continue to be overcompensation for those active in the economic part of this country, be it services - our economy is mainly made up of the services sector - whether it is any other production activity. Therefore, this arrangement came to complete a previous law, understood by the Minister, the Ministry in general, that the previous regulation up to a point may have been considered insufficient to reach the ultimate goal of State revenues, but also to alleviate those active in the economic sector. And he was right to bring her. On this point, however, after they have been placed and given explanations and answers to both the committee and the relevant ministers, I must also stand on the kind of opposition that is taking place. I could say that this is a laughing opposition if the situation was not so critical. Unfortunately, it's for crying because of this situation. It insists on a so-called class mark in favour of the few, when the Minister has been repeatedly asked to bring information on who has been favoured. Obviously, only statistically could that be done. The Minister brought the evidence and answered. It showed that mainly the small and medium-sized ones also benefited from this additional action by the Ministry in the previous law. So they've swallowed any arguments. And frankly, I do not want to waste any more time to say 'Look who talks about a service of interest: the PASOK and the New Democracy'. And behind the classic tail: the river. After all, they also made a funny attempt at anti-government protest in the Constitution. The other part has to do with productive reconstruction. But it has to do with the perspective SYRIZA has put on for years not from this exhibition of Thessaloniki alone, but from the previous one, which speaks of agro-food complex. It's completely different. Not the primary sector, but the processing, can only be seen from the point of view of profit in terms of the narrow concept of this activity. It is about the autonomy of a country in commodities whose introduction leads to a situation of limited autonomy. In the debate that took place in committee, but also here, the Ministers responsible have not only analysed the bad texts, from which the Sugar Industry has entered into this circumstance and the enormous crisis, but also the reasons for the present action by the Ministry, as well as the vision of where we want to end up. That's very little foul. And here, however, it is interesting to see what the criticism is being made. Mr Mitsotakis raised the question, which is obviously not innocent. He was smartly captured, I would say, as a question, but while the MPs and Members of his party have argued in favour of that logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u50	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u51	Questions: 'Is it State aid, which we will find in front of us?' I'm sure this logic is inconsistent with...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u52	The MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, allow me. At the moment, I have the capacity to react to this juicy that is being done, while I am not speaking with written text, cannot give rise to an inoculation of questions from Mr Tasoula, for example, and a further fuss, which takes me and time and concentration, to answer and continue my position. Please, it's not enough you're few. You're too noisy. Please allow me to continue and give me the time I have lost. And it reached this point...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u54	But because we're few, we're noisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Kumucaco, I've seen you on a board talking about morality...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u56	Don't waste your time, Mr. Diamantoula in answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u57	And even how we should not cross our limits, because it gives another message when we had the European Commissioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u58	While you, as you know, are a man of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u59	Do not consume your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u60	Did you, when you were in Parliament, make such contributions underneath them? Did you have that attitude? If you didn't have it, don't be an honor only in one piece. Well, move on to your self-criticism and let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u61	We did, but the speakers did not react.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u62	Either way, arguments are being heard right now. What we all recognise is that this is a breath, the necessary oxygen to the Greek Sugar Industry, so that it remains alive to be able to respond to the issue of agri-food complex and autonomy, the self-sufficiency of our country in such key areas, and they come to undermine it in the sense that it may be State aid. Mr Mitsotakis, I am directly addressing you, not personally but as a Parliamentary representative: you, in the sense that it can be so - why are you not sure - would you not want this regulation to come for the Greek Sugar Industry? Say it straight. You say that you as a New Democracy are likely to be State aid, which is not, at the moment, taking the risk of not coming and not moving forward with this arrangement. Because of the time I've lost with your intervention, I won't continue. I let people judge you when you say that any question by Mr Stournara is a question by Mr Draghi. Can I tell you something, Mr. Mitsotakis? We have come, with the best attitudes, to work with all the actors and this place and our partners. The question is this: When a disgusting energy that is being expelled from the environment of the Governor of the Bank of Greece is revealed, should you not indict him and place him in his place? Why is he with anyway? Is it with these efforts by the government and for the good of the country, or does it contribute to undermining both the good of the country and the government? When one proves that it is with the second one, then this government must bring him before its responsibilities and at last take responsibility for the emoluments that are laid down by its position at the moment and do what is appropriate. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to develop too how your non-interference, as you were due, brought the common agricultural policy into the European Union has brought the Sugar Industry into this position. Either way, we support this draft law and the way it came, because all this is part of the SYRIZA programme and principles, and they are the ones that will put this economy forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u63	My colleague, Mr Xanna, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have our reservations about the usefulness of an act of legislation, but I think blamed us on the CSR, those who voted for more than twenty-five legislative acts, is highly hypocritical. At least, this act of legislation covers and serves direct, urgent needs, social needs, and not equalisation of wages, pensions, labour relations under the mandates of the troika. I am going to place myself in the debate today exclusively on sugar, the example of which, with the reopening of the Sugar Industry and its rescue literally, in almost five, condensates the situation, which had come to light and at the same time an attempt to regenerate from the new government. Thus, on the one hand, the memorial abandonment and dismantling, and on the other, the agonizing effort to reopen and support the Greek Sugar Industry, workers and producers, is evident. The Greek Sugar Industry is a typical example of the faithful application of the neoliberal doctrine of tradition to the private initiative and the free market, i.e. it was operating for the benefit of society under public ownership, regardless of whether the company is or has a positive prospects of profitability. Both the previous governments and the European Union have imposed this policy, which is summarised in the phrase 'before selling the medicine, you must sell the disease'. Within a decade a monopolistic national company, producing 300 000 tonnes of sugar, produces capable of covering domestic demand and export potential, is methodically degraded. The principle is the reform of the common organisation of the markets in sugar, which reduced the production ceiling of the Greek sugar industry by 50%, causing hundreds of workers and seasonal workers to work in the Greek sugar industry and the vertical fall in sugar beet production. Indicatively, this year, seventy-eight thousand acres of beet were cultivated from the four hundred twenty-eight thousand acres grown in 2005, when the company operated all five factories, thus leading to a financial dead end for the producers. "With one forum of two birds", as our people say, our European partners and their domestic expressions have achieved the following: First, they have managed to systematically lead the Greek Sugar Industry to economic haemorrhage. This is a typical example of the conversion of sugar factories into bioethanol plants. The huge failure of this investment led to the closure of the two factories, one in Larissa and the other in Xanthi. Subsequently, the appointed administration of Greek Sugar Industry began planning the sale of the industry. One of the company's three factories today operates only one in Greece and two in Serbia. In 2010, we had a hundred and fifty - five thousand tons of production. In 2011 production declines vertically to thirty-eight thousand tonnes. The numbers are crime revealing. They speak for themselves. Secondly, the delivery and dismantling of the Sugar Industry is part of a more comprehensive design, that of the deindustrialisation and agro-industrialisation of the Greek economy, in order to end any prospect of building the country's production base, to create a Europe which, in particular, the German and French industrial products will be the only ones competitive and which Greece will be fully dependent and food-based, inadequate to meet its basic needs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that the act of legislation does not provide a comprehensive solution but only a temporary relief to meet the immediate current needs and wages of workers. However, this is not the end, but the beginning of a road with difficulties and challenges, but extremely interesting for the reconstruction of production, which is now beginning with sugar, but will continue on the basis of the real needs of the economy, the linking of rural, livestock and fishing activities with processing and standardisation. Today, hundreds of workers remain at work, at sugar factories and thousands of customs producers will return to their crops, in their fields. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to pay those who owe millions of euros to the Greek Sugar Industry, speculating on the back of the Greek State with the tolerance, if not with the coverage, of the previous administrations and the political leadership. The government and SYRIZA are not going to continue the monumental economic and social demolition. They will not become managers of poverty and impoverishment, led by neoliberal recipes for Europe's extreme monetarist circles and the International Monetary Fund. This government will not become an accomplice to the crime of the country's productive desertification. The new government has been mandated to implement a programme of progress from the crisis, with society standing and decent, a programme of part-time work for workers, the unemployed, low-skilled, uninsured, new scientists, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and farmers, targeted by the Memorandum Policies. In this direction we have been positively appraising the initiatives that have been taken lately. It is indicative of the government's intentions to deal with the consequences of the memoranda, the humanitarian crisis, the building on a new basis of the economy and production. The implementation of a class part-time programme is not an opportunityal option for SYRIZA and the Government, but a option with a strategic depth. It is clear to us that we will not only go behind our red lines, but we will day after day create a Greece independent, with the support of the agricultural sector, with a view to developing the small and medium-sized manufacturing industry, with a strong defence industry, with a quality tourism product, a Greece that our people will work with dignity and fruitfulness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The PASOK Parliamentary Representative Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, it has not 'conspired the universe', as the well-known author describes in his work to apologize yesterday - and I think she will then - for the accusations we have made about this scandalous regulation. He didn't conspire the universe! The Commission is also aware of the fact that, in the case of the United Kingdom, it is not possible to take a decision on this matter in the light of the Commission's proposals. And I am amazed to hear SYRIZA Members who have fallen into early governmentalism saying that they were in their schedule. First act: the one million-dollar plaque is abolished. We asked here, even though we voted for the bill, to set certain criteria and conditions, why do you do so? Secondly, a few days after the bill was passed, it brings us the legislative act on 27 March and comes to Parliament a month and a half later. Why is he coming a month and a half later? Have you wondered? In order to create legal effects for some - some may go later - to go to make arrangements so that, if some Members from us, by the majority, would set certain limitations and conditions, they would have settled their jobs. And thirdly, in practice, legislative provisions in this provision for the first time, I say, fines and increases in tax evasion are being deleted which are peculiar and refer to the Criminal Code. What does the Minister say? It says: "Look, we do not delete under the provisions of the Customs Code or the IMO's fines." It is true, but when the audit authorities whether they are the customs authorities or the IMO, they are arresting an evasive tax-free item, the tax authority imposes the tax that it has escaped, puts the surcharges that the law says and then puts the fines. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 2523/1997 is very specific and says that if the statement is inaccurate, we have 3% increase for every month, that is to say, since he had to submit the declaration to date, up to 120% for the remaining taxes not attributed to 4.5% a month. The new Code of Tax Procedure, n. 4174 for fines from 10% to 100%. These are deleted by the Act of Legislative Action. One example: Let us say that the audit services have found a tax evasion of EUR 3,000,000. They will impose a primary tax of 35% a 1.050,000 of the 2005 period, - I take a random example - an increase of 1.260,000 VAT of 540,000, an increase in VAT of 648 000, a fine of 6 000 000 fines and an autonomous fine of 1.620,000. In other words, we must be very specific so that there is no misunderstanding in this House, through a reference of laws and paragraphs that people do not understand. Of the 3,498,000, you're erasing 1.590,000. This is the unprecedented and unprecedented. All the arrangements so far deleted the surcharges due to late payment. In other words, we imposed the fines on someone, imposed a tax, did not go to pay, and the surcharges ran. There was a favorable arrangement and we deleted the surcharges because he did not pay. So I would like to ask the following question, which Mr Lapavitas also mentioned: is this about people in the crisis concerned? Yeah, it's about them, too. Mrs Valvaani told us yesterday that they are three hundred five thousand, but - look out - they are eighty-six with debts of more than one million and only four hundred sixty to one million. Mr Mitsotakis was mentioned earlier in one case and I have here the relevant publication. Where tax evasion, money and waste are symbolised, they are making use of this arrangement. With tax and fines of 7.5 billion, we pay 1/3 or 1/4 and we're done. Is that what you want, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to serve? We told you we'd ask for names and come out of these. And if you have a good intention, we told you to put a wall and a precondition. The other cannot have ridiculed society, had huge property, deposits and black money, and we can't have it all out, we can give it to him! And be careful: Where are we going to get these? From the poor to whom we will increase VAT. Is that left policy? I hadn't heard of her so far. Otherwise, I was listening to her. I get the announcements of the IMO in April 2015, with the Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. It contains specific tax evasion operations: an amount of 5.800,000 in one case, an amount of 4,400,000 in another and a sum of 1,50,000 in the other. So let the Minister say to her staff - since she has sincerely told us that she is not well aware of taxation - to answer to me, for example, how many of the taxes that will be imposed, fines and surcharges are deleted by its regulation? Do you want to go to earlier ILO announcements? I shall refer to a 2010 communication, for example, for an estimated amount of EUR 1,050,000. So let the Minister give us an example, by her regulation, of what the other person will pay to be given a 'white' to society and what we are giving him. I am referring to cases where there is a great deal of tax evasion of all these frauds and the circuits that plunge society apart. Is that the message we're transmitting? Mr Lapavitsa told us yesterday in his otherwise interesting lecture on the relationship between a state and a state over the years. He's right in a lot of places. But will the message be in favour of the one who waited for favorable regulation and has an unstoppable riches, to give it to him, or will we look at adjusting the poor's debts to bring something to life for the state and its business? Is that the message? So, in order not to tell us about hypocrisy - because I have heard that too - we are talking about very specific things. And that's what we want you to put in, and we invite you to put a barrier. Very quickly, you're dragging. If we had, we wouldn't be standing anywhere. On the other issues: I have heard Mr Lapavitsa's also interesting lecture - Mr Apostolos was much more modest - to explain to us why productive reconstruction is done by means of an act of legislative content. If it was that easy, we would have done it too! Do you want to discuss how to strengthen the Sugar Industry so that it does not close? We are open, as I have said in committee. We want to survive both customs production and the Sugar Industry. Both of the actions taken in the recent past to strengthen customs production have our own stamp. It is the integrated management that has happened to me and that Mr Drivelega has completed it from the drawers of the Special Agency for European Projects - and people have not yet been paid - and it is the associated aid that the previous government has made. Because it was reasonable, where we have agricultural industries to strengthen the production of raw materials, for example industrial tomato, wood-farming and so on. Since then, for a hundred days now, there has been no act of strengthening customs production, only the appeals made by Mr. Apostle. Sustained. Put the beetle on. Cultivate yourself. And I say, ladies and gentlemen, let us say that this came separately and was not in an act of legislation, would we vote on it? Perhaps through the debate, if the government convinced us that it has an integrated plan that has not been presented, we should vote on it. We have no objections. On the contrary. But there is no complete plan. And it is clear that the EUR 30 million will not go to customs producers. The company's obligations will go to creditors. This procedure is therefore incomplete. I mean, it's like we're throwing some money into Danaides' ape. So if the government wishes, let us have an open debate, as we did in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but after our intervention by the institutions, let us see what the integrated plan is. And not that the government should attack the banks, which have the majority, because they did not give a loan and forced it to act in legislative terms. They have the majority. Mr Lafazanis here, as a parliamentary representative, told us that he would change the administrations. He's under state control. Hey, let's do it. Let them implement their program. I come to the amendments. One amendment is Mrs Valvaani, the Ministry of Finance, and because we have called for a debate to be held tomorrow, so that it can be completed, because we have the pressure of time and we must not discuss legislative acts with this pressure, he told us that he wants to be voted on today, because we need to start the process of receiving the declarations. Well, the bill that ratifys the Act of Legislation is two weeks in the House. Could not this simple amendment come which says that grants up to EUR 12 000 are not taxed? He could have come. But this is not a point of order, ladies and gentlemen. It's essentially on the point. For the first time, Parliament will come with SYRIZA's proposal to overthrow - 'first time left' - what has been guaranteed for so many years, that the subsidies on the common agricultural policy, on the basis of the documents of the European Community, are tax-free. I also read the amendment tabled by the Annell colleagues. Same thing they say. Look at our own amendments in the previous phase, when we were talking about why this money is inappropriate when the OGA administration wanted to get the contributions. There is evidence of this and the government is abolishing it. It doesn't matter that he puts the 12,000 euros in the wall. The next Minister can make it 10,000 euros, 8,000 euros, 7,000 euros or 15,000 euros. It is important that it accepts the philosophy of taxation on agricultural subsidies. So it opens the door. That's the big deal. That is why we cannot vote for it. As far as the second amendment on people is concerned, every time the producers' associations of professional citizens came to the Committee on Production and Trade, we resolved their differences. There are controversies there, how the district councillors, mayors, etc. share the positions. Ladies and gentlemen, I told Mr Stathakis last night: why is every concept of elementary consultation being circumvented within the House? We don't get it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, we will not simply vote against, but we will insist on denouncing this triangular relationship, namely, 1 million, the platoon, the act of legislative content and the deletion of fines and saying that it is a scandalous regulation, which favours very specific ones, we will call for names. We will not be content with the press survey, the bar in Mykonos and the change. There are other surnames who make fun of society. They're drinking in the sucker's health. Well, we don't want to legislate about them. I would ask you too to measure them very seriously, so that we do not open up dangerous roads. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Petrakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, there is a people's proverb that says: 'Where we were owed, demanded'. This is true of the colleagues in the New Democracy and PASOK who spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u69	You're right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u70	So to ask a few questions. Do colleagues know that the decline in the agricultural sector is such that it has reached 4% of GDP and that the number of farmed land has ceased to grow over the past five years? They know, of course. Do they know that the decline in agricultural workers is below 10%? Of course they know that too. Do they know that the deficit in agricultural trade has only been EUR 4 billion over the last two years? They know that, too, of course. Do they know that the farmer's income has fallen over the last five years by over 25%? And they know that. Are they aware of the great scandal - which is not only a great scandal in the agricultural sector, but one of the biggest scandals of post-multi-population - the sale of the Agricultural Bank and its gift and a banner at Piraeus Bank? Who did this? That's why they're bothering Mr. Stournara for whom I'll talk later. They also know that the industry's contribution to GDP is less than 9%, when in the Europe of twenty-seven it is 16%. And the goal they put in the last session is to go 20% by 2020. So where are we? What policies have they led us to this situation, so that Greece does not produce in the primary sector, where its production and industry has been reduced to half of what is not in the euro area, but in the twenty-seven? Are we being asked for the change? Are you asking us for the change, ladies and gentlemen? Mr Mitsotakis asks us how the legislative act is linked to the SYRIZA programme and whether this constitutes State aid. I think you should be ashamed to say these things - Mr Mitsotakis, allow me. Do you raise the question of State aid, when there must be support from the Sugar Industry and from customs producers, so that this crop is not completely dissolved? Is that the offer in the national economy you want to make? I think that the Greek industry of Zecharis has become a deeply problematic company, that is not to say the government of SYRIZA, Lafazanis and the Apostle, who are three and a half months Ministers. Because we're going to go crazy if you tell us that. You ask us how there will be productive reconstruction and whether the industries are being subsidised. An interesting question, though challenging, because you must know that you who have broken up the country's production base should not ask these questions. But you are giving us the opportunity to answer. The SYRIZA programme, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, but also the main economic thought, the economic theory, the alpha beta, says that in order for production reconstruction two conditions are needed. The first condition is the public banking system, banks under public control and ownership. But what did you do? You chose the four systemic banks, dissolved the Post Bank, dissolved and sold out the Agricultural Bank. That was your answer to that. And you're coming and asking us for the change? Are you asking us how there can be productive reconstruction? We answer that and we will. That's our place. Be careful because there is evidence. You tell us we're all to blame as well as Mr. Stournaras. I would like to inform you, therefore, that Minister Lafazanis, the Deputy Minister, Mr Apostlelos, the Deputy Minister, Mr Valavani, I, Mrs Amanatidou and a number of other SYRIZA Members, have tabled a question to Mr Stournara on 18 July 2013, at the time of the Minister of Finance. "The Government and the Bank of Greece on the decision to break down and divest the Agricultural Bank of Greece." Among other things, we are talking about and stress - and I will put it in the Minutes - that "according to the current data, the cost of the Greek State by the transfer of the good Agricultural Bank was estimated at 6.67 billion at the provisional valuation and 7.474 billion at the definitive valuation". It finally cost more than 9.1 billion. At the same time, the Commissioner responsible at the time for economic affairs, Olli Rehn, had replied to the then SYRIZA MEP, Nikos Houndis, that the plan for the recapitalisation of the Agricultural Bank and its overall government stay could be achieved with 4.9 billion. Is that an economic and political crime? Here you go. Here are all the answers, questions and timeliness. Mr Stournaras never came to the House to answer the timely question we had raised three times about it. I had last asked questions. Why, since it could be necessary to recapitalise 4.9 billion and to remain as a public bank, the Rural Bank was chosen to split up, sell-out and the grocery store at Piraeus Bank? He'll answer us. He never answered. I testify to all these facts and Ollie Rehn's answer. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Petrakos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let us not pretend that we have now appeared in the House, that no one has a past, that no one has supported policies which have dissolved the banking system, which is not there at the moment. No industry is financed, even those with huge export capacity. But the banks are funding a mass media. Instruments that supported governmental memoranda policies. That is the first condition. The second condition is that you should know that too. It is a reduction in production costs in the agricultural sector and one of them is a reduction in energy costs. Instead of working in this direction, what was your answer last five years? Dissolve, privatize all the energy companies. What is the government doing today in this direction? He stopped privatization and worked in a direction with a great deal of energy agreement with Russia, for which he was ironically suffering the previous period. But whoever laughs better last says a proverb. The agreement will result in a further reduction in the gas price. Did you hear yesterday how much the Greek Sugar Industry owed to the PPP? So the gas price and its reduction are an important factor in the reconstruction of the Greek industry as a whole. That is what this government is working on. Create the conditions for the production reconstruction of the site. This is done in a sedative political environment in which nothing has left standing by public pillars and tools that could support productive reconstruction. However, we are working in this direction. And you're asking us for the change, what did we really do about the reconstruction plan for the Greek Sugar Industry is sustainable? What's your answer? Close the factories behind each other! When one closes behind the other factories, it is understood that it increases the cost, since people will carry the products in one place only. Simple logic needs, you don't have to be a philosopher or an economist! That is why, when the crop is reduced, there are long distances and therefore increased costs. So what should be done? Shall we put a padlock on? Shall we close it or take a first measure to reopen and create the conditions? And did the Deputy Minister go to Evros to increase the crop, increase the land, increase production, and along with all the measures, also take those that will help us move on next year to a substantial relaunch of the logging in Greece that you were going for a padlock, to turn the country into a complete import country? Because - let me say - that was your policy, Mr Hatzidakis. And I'm not saying it now. I have told you in committee that, on the basis of your policy, you should not be called the Minister for Development, but the Minister for the Promotion of Imports. So I told you in the Committee on Production and Trade when we discussed the bill you had brought back at the time. That's the difference between us and yours. Difference in an effort to restructure the site. And you're coming now and you're talking? Watch out now. The second dreadful thing we've heard these days is that SYRIZA - he says - strengthens the great interests. Well, to laugh, because only to laugh can we take that argument. So tell me, why have these debts not been collected to date by the major debtors? The Minister, Mr. Valavani, is engaged in and is learning taxation. I haven't learned at all, I'm just making sense. I ask, why did you let these debts grow and reach these heights? Why? Tell me. I'm asking a simple question. And now you're asking for the change, because that's going to be collected?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Comrade, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because that is what Mr Hatzidakis said, that is what Mr Koutsoukos said in committee. "We come," says Mr. Hatzidakis, I read it for the first time, "to add majestics for more than a million and for the first time." But he did not answer this question: Whoever lets one owe five, ten or fifteen years, what does he do and why does he not take it? Does he, then, not protect him and protect him from the one who is now coming to collect these? This is where logic raises hands. I can't understand this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Comrade, let's finish. We've reached fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. The bill we bring comforts farmers. Why, Mr Koutsouko and fellow Members of the Anti-Population Committee, you know very well that farmers will be faced with a very unpleasant surprise, a tax of 13% from the first euro, etc. You know that. What do we do with it? What's the government doing with it today? Let's say what he's doing. Compensation for natural disasters in the rural economy, planned for a tax of 13% from the first euro, will be tax-free.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Colleague, I don't like to interrupt you, but try to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u76	Farm subsidies are tax-free, tax-paying in half. That's what we're doing. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give some consideration to the development of the procedures. You know well that at 18:00 the Greek Parliament welcomes the survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. This time can't change. It is assumed that at 1800 hours this reception will take place. That means we all need to get ready. Yesterday's sitting has decided that at 16: 00 we're interrupting or ending. Looks like we're just finishing up and we're not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, ten speakers have left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u79	Mr Colleague, let me finish a little bit of what I want to say to see all of us together after that. We all need a co-operation and a consultation. As time is suffocating, we must first of all agree on respect for time by speakers and, secondly, to see how the process will develop. Yesterday there was a thought, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not have enough time to complete our debate effectively and effectively tomorrow. That was not accepted, and we said to finish today. I do not know whether the Bureau at any time or I or my fellow Member who follows me back on the subject, because if we do not have time to make the sitting within three hours of this - and less - something must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u80	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u81	Wait a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis. In the meantime, let's see how the process is going to end. Let me tell you that Mr. Cessa, Mrs. Ammanatidou and Mrs. Gara. Then the Minister, Ms. Valavani, Mrs. Liberaki, as Parliamentary Representative, wants the floor to be given, Mrs. Arabatzi...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u82	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u83	Wait, let me tell you the group of follow-up colleagues. Then there is Mrs Arabatzis and Mr Kokalis as Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. That's where we've determined we're going in that order. Now, would you like something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u84	After Mrs Valvain, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u85	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u86	Good. As far as I can see, Mr. Apostle wants to speak. Then I think it takes even more attention to see how the process is going to develop. Unfortunately, we have this given late 16: 00 afternoon time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u87	May I suggest something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u88	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u89	Because I am going to place myself on the regulation and, in particular, on the amendments, should the ministers who want to refer not to amendments take the lead in order to be easier afterwards?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u90	Madam Minister, that makes sense, it just doesn't solve the issue of time. We must come to an agreement on how to solve the problem of time. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor, but a little quick to contribute...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u91	I'll be brief. First of all, Mr President, I would like to raise an issue which I have raised again at the Conference of Presidents. With all due respect to the importance of the event for the survivors of the Nagasaki and Hiroshima tragedy, there can be no extra-parliamentary events at the expense of the parliamentary work. This should be regulated as a whole by the House, and it concerns the way in which it is authorised to use the Chamber. Older parliamentarians will remember that only in exceptional cases events of non-parliamentary events are held in this Chamber. In any case, this has to be done by the Bureau from now on. It is clear, however, that the debate will not be concluded today. There are important amendments to which colleagues want to put themselves, some of which are also in the right direction. I therefore propose to the Minister and to the Minister that they review what they said yesterday, to end the debate today at 15: 00, to place the ministers, to give ample time to come back tomorrow - there is no legislative work - to conclude the debate and the amendments. I imagine, Minister, half a day doesn't make much difference for you to vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u92	It's the FEK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u93	The FEK will be out tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u95	But under no circumstances can it be a question of legislative work...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u96	I understand your intervention. I think that the time was also raised for tomorrow's procedure if there can be. Let us look at the Bureau and in consultation with the ministers. Let us move on now, but let us know that at 6 p.m. the time has to be closed and that the event also exists at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u98	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, the rapporteurs must also speak about the amendments and we must make provision for time for this too. Take it seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u100	You're right. I see the directory. There are twelve - thirteen fellow speakers and there are also the speakers who need to speak. There are the ministers who want to speak. Time is not enough, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u101	Tomorrow, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u102	But let us see it in consultation with the ministers. Mr. George Cessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I don't consume all the time. I will present the whole question of how a citizen from Evros sees the whole thing, from an area that has a factory. The factory for the Prefecture of Evros and for the region in general was a unique source of revenue for all these years. Forty years the Evros factory worked as it worked, most of you know it. Every time the government changed, the factory manager also changed his board of directors. Green Government, Green Council. Blue government, blue council. So here's how he worked this factory for forty years. Nevertheless, in spite of this situation, it was an important, important source of revenue for the region. In the crisis, this has become even more important. There have been too many small units, too many businesses to Bulgaria, others have gone bankrupt and the factory is now a matter of the survival of the county. In 2014 they decided to suspend the plant without any justification. What did that mean to beet producers and not just? What did it mean to those who collect beet and to those who carry beet? Suddenly they were found having to carry them to Platy, four hundred kilometers away from Orestiad. As you can see, this cost was neither planned nor could people raise it. The suffering and anxiety were along with the fact that in 2014 these people were not even paid for, which means they also owed the transporters, they also owed the people who took their beets and of course they didn't have to live for their family. So they weren't paid in 2014 and this situation couldn't go anymore and they asked each other and us to SYRIZA then, what we're going to do. So we told them that we would reopen the factory. They didn't believe us, of course. When Mr Tsipras, the President of SYRIZA came to the regional conference in Alexandroupolis, most of the questions he accepted were those, what will happen to the sugar factory. The President himself guaranteed his reopening. And those here today say that we were talking about election campaigns and others doing post-elections are being disproved. That is the biggest answer anyone can say. People didn't think that it would reopen the factory, that it would be the Greek Sugar Industry. This was done by legislative act. Nobody cares what happened to Evros. Nobody really cares. What we are told is 'you are late and we do not have time to sow beets'. That's what people tell us, that's what I collect as a Member from Evros. Most people say to me "you should have done it much sooner". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 48th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Ammanatidou - Easter Gospel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kaisha, but also Mrs Gara, who will follow me after my speech, is from a difficult tactical county and has illustrated farmers' anguish. And Mr. Mitsotakis comes and tells us that we are not talking about the programme of Thessaloniki, that he has been listening to it for a long time, that he heard it today by mistake and stressed that it is a deeply problematic business the Greek industry of Zacharis. To reach agreement: New Democracy and PASOK did so, not only for EBZ, Mr Mitsotakis, for the entire industry in our country, for the whole primary and secondary sector. There must be some apology here. I'm really saying that. We have this situation that we see today with a picture of all the previous years and you come and talk about the act of legislative content, which was necessary for the country's productive reconstruction, as we said in the programme of Thessaloniki. We have to say why our country needs the Greek Sugar Industry. We must say that in the last thirty-five years, because these two former big parties have been running, our country has suffered a gradual deindustrialisation. But it wasn't random. It was a whole strategic transition option towards an economy based on the tertiary sector. It was said yesterday by our rapporteur, Mr Kostas Lapavica. I'm not going into this. I would like to say, however, that agricultural production, particularly through its association with the common agricultural policy, has also fallen back in this context. SYRIZA has repeatedly expressed its disagreement with the existing productive model, which has led to the exodus known to us all, and has therefore, since the first moment he has spoken, spoken and will speak and will plan for the need for productive reconstruction in a country that really can produce safe quality products and manage to have self-sufficiency and adequacy, something you do not want and never want it in the end. The Greek Sugar Industry is the only sugar producer in Greece and one of the few remaining industries in our country. This industry used to live fourteen thousand families. He had eight thousand farmers, two and a half thousand workers, permanent and seasonal staff. Do you know what this means to local communities from Domokos to Florina and Orestiad, from Central Greece, from its border with Thessaly and all northern Greece? And today we have only reached thirty thousand acres because of the delay, but also because of the weather conditions. But there was a deception of all the previous years and the final one came last year. Serres and Orestia put a padlock on. Why did they put a padlock on? That was an option that did not drop the operating cost, increased it. Eight out of nine million must be the transport cost from all regions to Platy. Yesterday the Minister promised that he would open up the one factory in Orestiad at least. It is understandable, because there are limited acres due to weather, in addition to the depreciation of all the previous years, which is unfortunately burdening today's new administration. And I'm not saying anything about the new management. I say that he will have to find ways, along with the government, so that he can change the mindset and turn the farmers' confidence towards the Greek sugar industry, which can be returned. And you know why he can come back? Because it will have the integrated management. I have heard Mr Koutsouko talking about the integrated management that is 30 euros per hectare. Since 2012, these 30 euros were not provided by the coup d'état and the connecting EUR 54 has come. So we are talking about around EUR 84 per acre, which reduces production costs. If I'm not mistaken, 260 euros were perversely the cost of production. It is an important breath for the Greek producer, which will also support customs farming. The legislative act and the EUR 30 million, of course, are a first breath. It's not what we'd like. But we can't get back on this. Do you know something about the New Democracy you're talking about? I heard Mr. Mitsotakis talking, and I'm really angry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u106	I see you very angry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u107	In 2006, on Basiaku, we lost our two factories. Let me remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, that it was still yours, Mr Koskinas, who resigned from the administration of the Sugar Industry because you closed the two factories because you thought that we would not resist and agree on this. To know what the policies were on the farmers' backs, but basically on the back of the national economy! And all this is what the government is trying to reverse today. It's trying to reconstruct the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As time is over, I would just like to say a few words about the People's Markets Amendment, because it has been mentioned here. This amendment simply faces the difficulty from 2-3 2015 onwards. We understand that, and we understand it, as two, three more issues. Since, however, a great deal has been heard, a bill containing popular markets, producers, traders, world trade, housed trade will come through real consultation. All this will be resolved there through consultation. That's what needed to be done. There are likely to be some issues which have not been included in the amendment. It was, therefore, a matter of direct concern, and it might have been delayed. However, the Greek Sugar Industry with this government will take a huge breath and have a development perspective. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Mrs Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u109	I think Mrs Amanatidou has covered us in too many things. For my part, I would like to say that today I am very pleased not because we have reached the point where the Greek Sugar Industry needs 30 million support, but because this government took the political decision, at a very high cost, to give industry a breath of life and to operate it. Since the whole debate includes productive reconstruction, we must note - as is well known - that in recent years Greece has been involved in a historic economic disaster both in terms of production and in terms of loss of resources, human resources and accumulated skills and knowledge. In this context, therefore, the question that arises is no longer whether there will be a reorder of the productive forces and the subjects involved in the production process, but how will production reconstruction be carried out, from which subjects, in what terms and with what purpose. The legislative act we are debating today, which concerns the support of the Greek Sugar Industry, is not a procedural or individual incident. It is a matter of paramount importance that has to do with the reconstruction of the Greek economy and the future of agricultural industrial production. I stress that it is of the utmost importance, because sugar is not just a sweet product, but more for us. It deals with a whole turnover that can make a decisive contribution to the uplift of the local and national economy. For example, it is, of course, the region of Orestiad, where traits are said to have built a city. The Greek Sugar Industry is the first vertically integrated production that our country - as has been heard - and possibly by the first vertical productions of primary, secondary and tertiary sectors that were created in Greece and Europe. In fact, the people who have appreciated the production of the product before and invested in it have taken care to develop the Sugar Industry in such a way as to cover the production of all the Balkans. So they set up two factories in Serbia plus the five factories in Greece. We are talking about a sugar industry with enormous potential for growth and prospects. At the same time, our factories do not only produce sugar, but they can produce many other products, mainly by-products such as animal feed, molasses, soaps, pliers, alcohol, but also electricity. The Greek Sugar Industry also has a skilled human resources with geoponists, engineers and engineers, and it has well engineers, which we usually forget, we have not calculated them. The enormous importance of sugar, therefore, is the way in which we can gain from it and the possibilities it has are maximum. So, listening to all of this, one could reasonably wonder why we have reached the present point. Why is that? A few months ago SYRIZA took over the country's sunshine, the Greek Zacharis industry was driven with mathematical and designed accuracy in its complete closure. Of course, its dismantling has started and been accomplishing for years. The governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, disposing of the knowhow of the fast track privatizations and the pluralism of the public wealth, have repudiated the operation and consciously undermined its work in order to hand it over to the predators without, of course, compromising or interested in the tragic consequences they have caused. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how you still have the nerve - why are you going to talk about the Greek Sugar Industry after the crimes you committed against it? Aren't you guys still alive, or did you think that you would have immunity forever and the scandals and your responsibilities would never come to light? Well, let's get this straight. The dissolution of the Greek Sugar Industry is purely your work. It is yours as a result of lasting manipulations, choices and mismanagement that have created supergovernment debts within a very short time. You are responsible for the appointments of certain people in the management of the company, who instead of working for the benefit of this and the Greek society, acted as the people of the companies who have put our own industry in the eye. Eventually, some of them now work in the competing companies by giving all the customers the list. If one notices their movements, then, one can describe a well-deserved plan for demolition and plundering industry. All the options were in the opposite direction to the proper functioning of the Greek Sugar Industry. The final hit was the closure of the two factories in Orestia and Serres, which closed because they -- he says -- were harming the company. Did they really hurt her? According to an updated report by ‘KANTOR’ to an appointed agency, and by you gentlemen, the suspension of the two factories would bring a profit of EUR 18 million, the study said. What's the deal? The profit was about 800,000 euros, without certain calculation of the drop in the quality of sugar, the social costs or the wider financial costs from all over the turnover. You made great choices! So the consequences were immediate. However, let us see what caused the sugar factory to close only in the region of Orestiad, in which I live. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, Mr President. According to a rough record, in one year and only one year from the region of Orestiad, 40 million euros were lost from the local market, a guaranteed income of thousands of farmers, eighty euros away from the integrated and connected aid for five years, hundreds of permanent and seasonal jobs. In addition, associated professional groups, such as customs exporters, loaders, sprayers, etc., have been affected, incomes lost by professional groups such as transporters, geopollutants, gas stations, workshops, and we have lost the possibility of obtaining professional knowledge and experience of young scientists and graduates from professional schools that would set their lives in this remote region, which we want to shield without people there after all. Have you calculated all this, ladies and gentlemen? Are you going to talk about them or are you going to be confined to a free market excuse, so that you can justify the pit you set up in industry? The criticism you are making is in the context of 'there is no plan for the next day'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. And yet, it's your concern, because we have a plan exactly opposite yours. Totally opposite! I shall conclude with one aim and one wish: to see our wings smoke again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr. Lafazanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. The debate today is very critical. Although it does not have the lights of publicity, its content is about the future of this country, because the problem of this country is primarily its productive deficit. If the country has reached this point, at this fracture, I would say, it is precisely because of this reason, the productive dissolution that has been suffered for decades, the productive confrontation, the fact that as a vision Greece has emerged as a post-practical centre. This kind of Greece borrowed entrepreneurial money to serve the complex and loaned households only to serve the banks. This has been the case for decades. And, of course, the country's accession to the euro was used to divert the financial derogation and get a characteristic nightmare. So, in the first crisis, in the first difficulty, we had the break-up of the bubble and the painful consequences there. So we are discussing today a crucial issue of the country's productive restructuring, the issue of the Greek Sugar Industry, an industry which connects the primary sector to processing and enables the country - if we can set up the Greek Sugar Industry - to strengthen its primary production, in particular the production of timber, and at the same time to formulate processing conditions, which will replace imports and perhaps also enable exports of Greek sugar. That's the bet. And here they interact - and they appear here in the Chamber - the two perceptions: The one that says 'close the Sugar Industry' - because that is what it says, does not say anything else - '... dismantle a historical crop, throw it to the margin, leave it'. In whose name? What prospect of the country? What will this country do when one - one of its industries closes when its agricultural production is dismantled? What future will it have? What is the way out of the crisis? The delivery to the creditors, as you suggest? What's our perspective? Going under a state of neo-colonial custody and selling everything to Greece, so we're supposed to survive that we don't survive and have no prospects? When we took over the government - and I myself as Minister - we found a Greek Sugar Industry, which you had handed over to the liquidator of the poor Agricultural Bank, a Sugar Industry that couldn't even find a buyer, no one would come to privatize it. Of course, it is not a good thing to privatise it, but no one was approaching it. Its share was off-exchange, it had a negative position and debts of hundreds of millions of euros, robbery debts for which I am going to refer below. That was the situation. There was not even a single euro in her fund. This was the Greek Sugar Industry. You shut it down. You've put on a lock, gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, who's coming to be honorers now. Lukeetto! She didn't have a single euro on her fund. Hundreds of millions of debts and shipowners, who had delivered the sugar to industry, unpaid for last year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I need some time, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u112	Minister, you will have him. But you know the story of time today, too. Isn't that right? You've heard of it, and I hope you can help.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u113	But I don't understand, I'm the Minister responsible for this matter, and you give me six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u114	I would like to say that I hope you will help, given the closure of the sitting at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, don't argue now, because we're wasting time. But you can't just give me six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u116	But I don't dispute it, I'm explaining it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u117	But you give me six minutes. Excuse me, I didn't notice from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u118	Comfortable with time. We'll go tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u119	Of course, we should go tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u120	To have comfort!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u121	That is why we are coming here, and that is why there is the plenary to discuss. You're accusing us of bringing legislative action to get things under the table. You're making a big mistake. If we did the legislative act, it is because - I told you - we have received the situation we have received. And if we hadn't speeded up, there wouldn't be a butterfly now, we'd be done, and the Greek Sugar Industry would be closed and thousands of people on the road, with what that means. That is why we did the legislative act because the beet had to be grown and there was not one day. So we went to Piraeus Bank to find loans and finance. What was the answer? Closed doors. 'The European guidelines do not allow us to finance sugar' we were told. Oh, of course! Falsely, because this is their obligation. Because ATE sold out. What he sold out. He was given a dowry to Piraeus Bank to play Piraeus Bank - supposedly - a development role for agricultural production and not to say at the most crucial point when we have customs production, that he does not finance. And he closes the door. So in order to be able to pay the shipowners last year to enter the new crop, otherwise there was no possibility of a new crop being grown, the sugar stocks of the Greek industry and the cheques from the top entered in order to give 8 million so that we could repay the shipowners. That was the situation, the terrible situation! Now what's going on? The Greek Industry sells the sugar and the money goes to Piraeus Bank, which will take the loan of the cocca-cach in months. This is the robbery, which is happening and for which the opposition does not see protest. Greece has created a regime for banks and iron and steel to the bankers, of course with public money. Because the money's been put on and the banks stand on their feet. However, the TFS regime, with the Memorandums and the threat that liquidity will be stopped to pressure the country, dismantle the production base and get the bankers now to have the upper hand and cannot be a development perspective with this regime that governs the banks. Of course, the crime you committed has not been forgotten. The crimes will be traced back and they'll be blamed. There is no way that there will be no responsibility. The crime of the sale of ATE. Mr. Stournaras. Mr Stournaras is great! Independent Commander of the Bank of Greece! Good for him! What independent commander is he with the scandal of the Agricultural Bank? One independent commander has unsustainablely taken out the Agricultural Bank...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Stournaras was commander then?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Mitsotakis, don't interfere, because you're an accomplice to these crimes and you'll hear them all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u124	I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u125	Of course, the Governor of the Bank of Greece was not Mr Stournaras. He was another commander, who at one night considered that the Agricultural Bank is not viable. And when we asked him, "with what evidence do you consider to be insurmountable?" he did not bring them to the House to show them to us. It is not sustainable, therefore, for the Agricultural Bank, but for the Piraeus Bank to be viable. Instead of buying - as the reason says - the Agricultural Bank of Piraeus Bank, the Piraeus Bank went with the saying of the principal then to take the Rural Bank with a dowry and divided it, of course, in good and bad. The poor Agricultural Bank went to the Greek Sugar Industry, but the requirements of the creditors went to Piraeus Bank. Piraeus Bank with the loans of the Rural Bank has 155m euros claims this hour against the bankrupt Sugar Industry. And why does he have these requirements? Because he's put huge mortgages on real estate, and he knows no matter what happens, he'll get tens of millions, if not the whole amount. These are the crimes committed in this country. So it was sold overnight. The President of the Bank of Greece was not viable. Minister of Finance was Mr Stournaras. Then we denounced the scandal here. Mr. Stournaras, but a merciful one. He knew. He tells you, "One commander says unsustainable, I will manage as another commander after that terrible situation that I have imposed." These crimes have not occurred in any other country in the world, so as not to speak - which Mr Petrakos has rightly spoken about - and the Post Bank. And that's unsustainable. How did it become unsustainable? In an announcement from Mr. Stournara. Mr Stournaras took it out unsustainable overnight and took it to Eurobank with funding gap and at one night he lost the public of all these processes of saving the famous Eurobank. Greece does not have money for the unemployed, for the poor, but for all this dispersed chapter it gives billions as bruises. That's reality. But I told you there won't be anything unpunished left. It will all be in-depth and accountable, and policies and whatever other responsibilities exist. This must be done, because we owe it not to the past and to what happened, but to the new generations that come. So we have received this with the Sugar Industry. What were we supposed to do? So should we shut it down? That's your answer, shut it down. We found a way because the banks were closed and the public could not finance the Greek Sugar Industry. Then you would call - and rightly so - for state aid. You're shouting here when there's no state aid. So, would the public have been able to give some millions to support the Greek Sugar Industry? And we found the clearer, the crime. We stepped on the crime that you had done with the clearer, so that we could support the operation of the Greek Sugar Industry with a few dozen millions. And because the liquidator, as he was supposed to, had to give the money himself, he told us that he could not do it, and we were required to bring in legislation, that is to say, legislation, so that this transfer could take place. And Mr Hatzidakis comes and says to us: 'Who loses from this transfer?' Mr Hatzidakis is missing, he is not listening to the debate. Who loses - says - from this transfer? Who loses, Mr. Hatzidakis, tell me, do the timber growers continue to lose? Is the Greek Sugar Industry losing, which makes an attempt to survive? Who else loses, Mr. Hatzidakis? Are the creditors losing even the clearer, who with the liquidation of the bad bank robbed her again? Do they lose, too? No, they don't lose because with this money something can go better to the Greek Sugar Industry, so they increase the assets and creditors. So why is this expression 'who loses'? And they're getting to the point where they're talking about state aid to the 30 million that the clearer gives them. Why is it State aid? There is no financial impact here, the General Accounting Report says so. There is no financial impact from this legislation. If there is no financial impact, how is State aid? Can you explain to me how this miracle is done? Why do you say that shit here? Why are you giving signals and orders to those who are caradic in Europe to charge and tell us: “What are you doing here? Book the Greek Sugar Industry!” Do you have another choice? If you have another choice, we should listen to the proposal. You may have a better proposal, you may have a better idea. We should be happy to have this debate on this basis and say to us: 'Not from there, there will be funding. That's where we'll get through it." Let's hear it. We can't hear any other suggestions. That's why I'm telling you that your proposal, Mr. Koutsouko and Mr. Mitsotakis, is one, the lock. You're used to padlocking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u126	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u127	You did not say that, but when you do not have an alternative proposal and criticise and say what is going on here and what is going on there, what are you doing and with what perspective, what are we going to do? Tell us about it. We have found ourselves doing this - with a thousand hard hits we have found - and it is not easy to find this way to support in a difficult phase a new attempt, a new effort. Tell me what the way was. What happened so far? Crime crime? Because there will be management control over the Greek Sugar Industry and those who have reached the industry will be punished in this situation. The credits given to the same credits, that is, credits that were loan and fierce. They were selling the sugar and they weren't getting any money. Well, sell it once, I understand it, but when you sell it two, three times the sugar and you don't get money, that's no negligence anymore, it's not a mistake, it's not an attempt at all, it's a consciousness from a point and beyond, and it's 75 million euros that owe it bankrupt Greek Sugar Industry. The debts to the Greek Sugar Industry reached this height. That's why they'll suffer consequences. They have responsibilities for what they have done. You ask us: do you have a comprehensive plan for sugar for the future for the Greek industry? Yes, sir. When can we fix the complete plan? Within one month is a comprehensive plan for the prospect of the Greek Sugar Industry? Or do you think it's an easy case that everyone's gonna put in their pockets and take off the recipe and move on? With pain and tears, if we can rebuild this industry and open up a prospect, it will be done. Only with pain and tears will this be done, and overcoming enormous difficulties. Because the situations in which the Greek Sugar Industry has arrived today are extremely difficult, with huge debts, with imports, with competitors who have taken part in the market, with difficulties in logging, which are also due to the weather of course. Too much has to be overcome. A restructuring plan is not made from one day to the next. And of course, at this time, the new administration of the Greek Sugar Industry is working in this direction and is trying to build synergies beyond Greece, with other countries, and with other companies, in order to shape the conditions and prospects of viability for the Greek Sugar Industry. It is a painful effort, of course, no one has the impression that its outcome will be positive. There's no contract anybody signs for you. A bet is, a difficult case, but we'll try it. We will try it with all the powers we have. We will try it in the most honest and essential way of bringing it to fruition. And here we are asking for support, not for a party case. It is not a party case if the Greek industry of Zacharis is back on its feet. Today it's us government, tomorrow we're not. The Greek Sugar Industry must remain, above governments, beyond governments, and have a view of the location, agricultural production, Greek processing. This is how one sees the horizon for a country that wants to have prospects. But the governments have learned in communism so far. Each one would measure the party's benefit. But this is not how the effort to restructure a country is measured. Many times the works that need to be displayed are difficult, they are painful, but they must be supported. This is where everyone is perceived - and political perception. Here to show your modernist face and not to bows and kneebrows to creditors. Because that's where nothing will come out for the country. If anything comes out of this country, it will come out of our own hard, bloody attempt to move forward. So here is the real area of consensus, in which we are all called upon to respond and try every day. We are making this effort to reconstruct the Sugar Industry by this arrangement. You are asking us whether we are doing productive reconstruction by means of an act of legislation. Mr Lapavitsa said so in the suggestion: no one makes productive reconstruction with this arrangement. Alas. What did we do with this arrangement? We've stopped the end. We stopped the closure, the lock. We have given a breath, which we and everyone here in Parliament must also take to make a big step forward, which, as I said, will be a big step for the country. That is what we need to do in all areas and in all sectors of the Greek economy, to look forward and with a view to it. And don't tell us about the due date now. But did we do it all the time? If time was so easy to get, why didn't you guys do it all these years - if it was that simple? Did you cover for so many years the people they owed to the public? Is that what you did? Is that what you mean? We make these arrangements, because the field is not impossible, nor are we in a normal situation. We are at a stage of very tough negotiations with creditors - in a marginal phase. We are working on the country's perspective, and at this point in time the public needs liquidity, so that it can stand up to the negotiation, to the creditors. We do this, so we don't give ourselves up. Because this government is not going to surrender, nor is it going to make its programme commitments behind it. You're laughed if you believe it. This government is not going to implement measures contrary to its programme of announcements. That's not what we're gonna do. We're not going to. We have assured all tons of this. That is why the negotiations have been going on and are so hard for so many months. If we wanted to do the fucking thing, as you say, it would have happened from the first moment and the case would have been over. We would have signed an e-mail similar to that of Mr. Hardouvelis and we would have finished. We did not, we will not, and we will never, because it is not in the interest of the country to do so. That's why we'll last. We are taking these measures, which are exceptional measures, of course, to deal with this tough negotiation and the pressure of creditors, and we believe that we will get through, we will go forward and give way to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Apostle, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u129	Not more than five minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u130	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u131	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we must resolve a misunderstanding about the amendment on the EUR 12 000 tax exemption for agricultural subsidies and compensation. The obligation to tax the aid in question stems from the arrangements made and would apply for 2014...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u132	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u133	Do you want me to get your own announcement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u134	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u135	Would you like me to bring you your announcement, of the New Democracy, yesterday, to which you speak of a necessary legislative initiative on the part of the Government to resolve the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u136	Yeah, bring us in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u137	I say to you that you in your communication accept that this matter can be resolved by law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u138	Because there was ambiguity of service factors. The law was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u139	We come and say something very simple...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u140	You're taxing backup...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u141	Let me finish. We have about one million Greek citizens who get these aids on an annual basis. Of this one million Greeks, with your own regulation, with 13% of the first euro, about 300,000 000 were the specific extra tax. And because we are particularly aware that, with the taxation envisaged for 2014, we are talking about the attack and plundering of rural areas, we are making this move, which is about how many do you know? It is only about fifty thousand farmers who will pay 64,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u142	You're wrong here, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u143	I'm not making any mistakes, dear colleague, because that's the reality. I have in front of me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u144	There's a lot more of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u145	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no dialogue. Let the Minister speak, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u147	It is about 50 000 farmers who receive subsidies - payments over EUR 12 000, because by 12 000 euros the remaining nine hundred fifty thousand will not pay one euro, and according to your own rules, with 13%, they would all pay 300 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u148	They'd pay a euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u149	It's very simple. That's the placement that's haunted. I'm coming to the other part. Both from the point of view of New Democracy and from PASOK, you all say 'Would you like to continue customs production?'. I think we all want that. Do we want to have self-sufficiency in sugar? We all want it. What does that mean? That we want the Sugar Industry to work. Do we want it? So there you say 'we want it, but see how it will be sustainable'. When you go into this debate, you actually come to the fact that it cannot be sustainable, so shut it down. That's your position. We say that we want and we will try, through a principle that we have done, this activity to make it sustainable. I told you a few numbers so we could all figure it out. We therefore have a commitment and we say through agreement with the producers: EUR 45 per tonne, in order to have a minimum - satisfactory - we consider it to be the result of the present circumstances - of a tariff producer's remuneration. And we say very simply: Let us see how 45 will reduce it, why does it affect production costs? So we said: Linked aid, integrated management. 45 automatically goes to 32. I told you earlier about an attempt under Regulation No 1308, which Finland has on its behalf in the sugar sector, which will reduce further EUR 5 and go to EUR 28. Down the street? It's a little hard. In particular, from the point of view of the producers, it is a good thing. Another part we need to see and enter into this process: we have a quota of about 158 000 acres. Can we push in this direction? By increasing beet production, you all understand that we automatically have a reduction in production costs. We agree. We are making an effort in this direction. It didn't help us, especially this year, the weather. There would be preconditions. However, it is within a targeting and aiming to keep it in mind, because in 2017, when the quotas are being abolished, we should already have in this direction for the simple reason that after 2017 we would also have the possibility of covering the need that we have, which goes up to three hundred thousand tons. Isn't that something? Should we not, when we talk about self-sufficiency, serve it? So it's a second package. Third package. It was said earlier by the Minister. No longer is this hug and this relationship between Piraeus Bank and the Sugar Industry. It can't be done. So in this process, because there is a great deal of sugar industry weight for the Piraeus Bank, the bank itself has to find a solution. We will find ourselves in this direction, because sustainability cannot be guaranteed with these economic dependencies. So if you look at these as a whole and with a perspective, is it not the basis for a project through which this activity can be sustainable? So why do you accept and, above all, 'feel you', why do you know that there are customs producers who are protesting and realizing the situation we have reached, taking such a position 'yes', but'? And "but" is a lock. That is what we want to do, ladies and gentlemen, and we will do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-two students and students and five teachers from the Afalou School of Almopia Pellas and the 8th Municipal School of Edessa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause]] The Parliamentary spokesman for the River Mr Antigone Lyberakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place on the basis of the latest statistics that have seen the light of publicity today that attest to something that we were afraid of, I think, all of us. In other words, on the basis of data, our economy in the first quarter of 2015 entered a recession compared to the last quarter of 2014. There was a 0.2% reduction. This, unfortunately, throws a more negative light on forecasts for the year. The European Commission's spring forecasts are about 0.5% growth for the year, while the government still hopes to be 1%. I start with this because I think it is very important to know in what context we are having the debate. Because economic ideas and, above all, economic policy ideas are tested by their ability to respond to the conditions applied, not in general. What do we have here? We have a government decision to transfer EUR 30 million to a company which has been loss-making for six years, with very high debts and production costs of approximately twice the price of its product. At the same time, the same government takes or tries to use the available funds of insurance funds, universities, OTAs, all traders, not paying its obligations to its suppliers and only pays the large international lenders. Is that reasonable? I don't want to talk about which pocket comes out of one another. But it is important to see the burden of economic activity for the economy. And I can tell you that in this economy, the average taxpayer, who will ultimately pay the burden of this support to the Greek Zacharis industry, is poorer than the instrument that the workers and the members of the Board of Directors are taking advantage of. Don't tell me about the customs producers, because they're really being used in the picture more about "hacking". We are talking about workers with an average salary of EUR 2 000 and over a month who work for a maximum of four months a year, but they are paid for 12 and a Board of Directors with a monthly fee of EUR 7 000 to 12 000. I would like to say that this is not the first time that money is left from the poorest to go to richer ones. It is just confirmed once again that anyone who shouts more draws attention. But the extent of this absurdity is even more terrible at a time when companies are constantly closing down from a lack of liquidity. Based on the data of the quarter, they put a lock in the first three months of 2015 five thousand four hundred eighty-seven businesses. Of these, three out of five were very small or individual. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that sixty businesses a day put a padlock. At the same time, exporters do not take VAT back and are actually taxed twice - and in their own country and country they pay until they prove that it is not triangular - and for a long time they have lifted an increased burden. Many other companies cannot even close, because shutting down means some obligations and actually cannot produce because they do not have much less liquidity than 30 million. In fact, I am not referring to enterprises that were of doubtful viability. I am talking to you about cases where the lack of liquidity as banks have no money because they have absorbed all of them, they lead to bankruptcy operations that are both competitive and sustainable. That's a drama I haven't heard anyone talk about in here. You'll tell me we'll have a strong state sugar industry. Every heavy sweet will thank SYRIZA's state demon and entrepreneurship. But will we have a strong state sugar industry? I don't have to bring you any clues. The Deputy Minister or State Secretary himself - forgive me, but I am not sure - in his introductory speech he said a lot about production costs, inefficient management and reduced productivity. What does that mean? It means that we have no certainty that we can with this measure, with this large injection of liquidity - which is, of course, crumbs in front of the total debt of the company - have a powerful Sugar Industry. We have a very distorted model, with very large production capacity, with very small raw material, even if it is extended, with accurate raw material and unable to understand the concept of international market and international prices. I would like to say a word about the subsidy, about whether it will be considered State aid, because it is too easy and cheap, let me say, the criticism that anyone who is concerned that these 30 million, which will ultimately cost the country 40 million, because it will be considered State aid, works counter-patriots. Watch out. History with State aid is a set of rules. The rules are not always reasonable, but they are rules which in fact prevent large and wealthy countries from strengthening their own businesses as crazy. We in a small country have no benefit of starting to circumvent the state aid rules, because then the giants will enter and will not swim in competition. We won't be able to stand for a week. That is why it is important not to make cheap party confrontation with the issue of state aid and to have a sense of the measure of things. But let me tell you, the 30 million together with the other 18 million, which was the last loan from Piraeus, without counting the 10 additional million that may cost us in fines, what do they buy in Greece today? How priority is sugar in relation to other priorities? So let me tell you that the annual cost of a long-term unemployment allowance is about the amount we transfer to sugar. If we put all 18 million in, it is precisely - one in ten long-term unemployed people gets this small allowance - we would be able to double it. But to get away from the unemployment issue, we should also go to the issue of childcare facilities. Based on the cost of the child per year at state nurseries, we would be able to increase impressively by a thousand and over a year, children who can join a state nursery and enable their mothers to work. I am saying these because especially in difficult times, the cost-benefit study, namely how much we pay and how much we really deserve what we get as a society and as a economy in exchange, is very important. And this cost study is neither lifeless nor technocratic. These are priorities that we need to have in mind, especially when the money is little. What we fear is that from this history of sugar, we see that the only cost-benefit study that exists is in the relationship not between costs and social or economic benefits, but in the relationship between the components and the syndicate. Let me say two words on the second article, because I too am trying to understand, reading that they are exempted by additional taxes or late payment fees - we are talking about a Code of Tax Procedure, that is, normal, not VAT, etc. - whether or not to submit a declaration or an incorrect declaration. I would very much like to see what the Deputy Minister has explained to us that there are no fines for people who have not made a tax declaration or made an inaccurate tax statement - because these two, in my opinion, are more certain cases - but we will expect to see how it works and who will benefit. I would like to say that we have a number of great reservations in view of the wording. I would like to mention for half a minute the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, in particular Article c, which says that the sums seized can also be considered as the first instalment of the arrangement, and at the end it should also be linked to the discount. Think. We say to a taxpayer, who was unable to pay that "if you collect it from where you can and give it, you have a discount and you benefit from this debt arrangement". We also tell someone else, who had certain mismanagement, that "the things we confiscated you, we think you're willing to come and give them up and that's why you're in the same beneficial provisions". In our view this is unacceptable and we cannot vote for it. Finally, with regard to the people's markets, i.e. the amendments made by the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, presented yesterday by Mr Stathakis, I understand that there were various issues to be regulated by the public markets, up to the administrative monitoring structure of the NRP. We have no question of voting on this amendment. Of course, I would like to say that in terms of the people's markets - which I am sure the measures it says are definite - the big problem is the terrible bureaucracy, which requires thirteen different supporting documents and four responsible statements, every six months. This is a terrible burden of time, of costs, of energy, of the patience of people on both sides, namely small and medium-sized sellers - of the people's markets - and of the employees handling these things and we would expect a more generous simplification of procedures. Otherwise, we hope that, on the question of government economic policy, account will be taken of the benefits of money that it transfers to businesses, which are doomed to be loss-making, in relation to other businesses or social activities that could actually benefit Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. Mrs Fotini Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry Mr. Lafazanis is absent from the Chamber. I find it extremely challenging to come to the House to recommend and defend, after the cash resources, the second act of law-making curiosity, hiding behind his interest in the Greek Sugar Industry. Who? The man who had identified the words 'parliamentary coup' in his name, the one who in every legislative arrangement of the previous government spoke of abstentions and devastated parliamentary democracy. Instead of following the tactics of the President of the Parliament, who is going to disappear at length from Parliament, when there are urgent or legislative acts, he comes along with a whole strand, speaks from the Stepping of the House of Staff and new racistism, and now his speech on genocide. The man who kept Mr. Miller of GAZPROM, a bow that I really liked to see from the performance of the "Service of Two Masters" of Goldoni. Let us now move on to the Greek Sugar Industry. It is clear that every attempt at the present and the future of customs farming to bring about a process of dynamic production, which, unfortunately, has declining over time, finds us allies. After all, for the truth and in order to speak practically and without wishing, do not forget that in a New Democracy government, the previous political leadership of the Ministry has demanded and succeeded in subsidising timber production in the new CFP, with the associated aid of EUR 50 to 55 per acre, so that they can finally go to the one who was the most unjusted in the chain of an extremely expensive - otherwise - product, such as sugar and which you have so many times invoked, the Greek customs producer. Because it is in fact on a product, which costs 85% functional, labour, energy, customs and transport costs, ladies and gentlemen, to the farmer, that the crumbs end up in the countryside. I am afraid that from what we have heard, only EUR 950,000 of the total EUR 30 000 000 will go to the Greek customs producer. So how do you guarantee sustainability when this money goes to cover old commitments and when we did not hear knives for a resolution plan? Real consolidation will come only if factories work 12 months a year instead of one working today with the greatest possible expansion of the production process, especially since 2016 with the abolition of quotas, energy exploitation and enrichment of the production process by weighing, incubating agricultural products, all that the grazing plants do, for example. That is why we have heard nothing, Minister. Eventually, I wonder if the two factories of Serres and Orestiad will be reopened. Because with this pre-election promise you and Mr Kammenos asked for the Greek people's vote by visiting the factories. Will you open them? Because yesterday I heard something about the possibility of opening the Orestiad factory. And as if it were not enough to inconsistent with the act of legislation, you are bringing as a matter of urgency and in secret an amendment to overthrow what we have known to date, an amendment to the incomes of the rural world. Of course, I am referring to the amendment on the taxation of all kinds of agricultural subsidies and aids over EUR 12 000 which, without shame, are irritated by express procedures. It is a piece of legislation that abolishes every historical precedent and comes to tax - be careful! - not only rights, but all Community aid: related aids, agri-environmental programmes, compensatory compensation, young farmers' programmes, all brooms. You spoke of a very small percentage that touches this piece of legislation. Of course, you realise by taxing aid, the slap of those who suffer the suffering of the 'first time' government tax is opening up dangerously. Of course, I will not say about swindling and political deception. On 8 April 2015, Mr Apostolos, you said ‘aid and compensation from either national or Community resources will not be calculated in the farmer’s taxable income’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u155	For 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u156	It shall apply from 1 In addition, you are baptising as a benefit the introduction of duty-free subsidies, when the stones know that European aid granted to the primary sector does not constitute income and is therefore not taxed. Article 21 of Law 4172/2013 is clear. Subsidies are not considered to be profit from business transactions or a product production revenue. They are therefore not taxable. Do not forget - and that proves why you have said that subsidies, rights, can be collected without production. So it's not a taxable income. So what you told us the previous law allowed it to be untrue. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I would like you to give me two minutes, Madam President, because this is very important and it has not been heard about this amendment. Mr President, you are taxing the main industrial farmers, those very few of them you have said. Which ones? Those that constitute the productive fabric, the driving force of the rural economy and the hope of recovery through the primary sector. Because the large proportion of those under the EUR 12 000 tax is basically pensioners or farmers who have rural employment as a second occupation. When you say that taxation relates to a small part, you forget or obviously do not know that this small percentage, as you say, produces the main volume of agricultural production. Let us see practically, however, who is behind the EUR 12 000 tax and who is ultimately taxed. The farmer of sixty acres of cotton cultivation, ladies and gentlemen. He's taxed. That is, which will receive EUR 80 rights from cotton, EUR 70 linked, EUR 40 agri-environmental programmes, nitrate. So this farmer of sixty acres will pay or exceed 12 000 euros. You obviously do not realize that such a rural lot is a small-sized enterprise, which is marginally competitive and marginally covering the survival of a rural family. You are critical of rural development itself, which you are supposed to be protecting, of course, making these farms from marginally viable to injurious. You remove what all the previous governments have respected, namely that aid comes to cover the loss of farmers' income due to their report to global competition, that aid acts as financing for farmers to continue to grow, given that bank financing is now extremely difficult, that Community aid is not a social benefit, but is a factor in balancing production costs, in order to produce cheap and ultimately not to transfer costs to the consumer. Mr President, at a difficult time for the rural economy, which last five years has helped maximum to deal with the crisis, you are choosing to bring an unprecedented and irreversible tax burden to the usual mortgages of your party logic. Which one? The private sector and the world it produces and risks, as is the rural world. The rural world, I fear, will be invited to pay for the broken out of your cosmos at your party audiences. He will be called upon to pay for the broken negotiations and the three-month delay in the agreement with our partners. We call for the withdrawal, Mrs Valavani, of the amendment. Otherwise, I am very afraid that if you decide to sow winds, you will have to prepare to reap storms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Because there are resignations from Members of Parliament from their speeches, I think we will go very well if we keep the time from now on - both the Members and the other speakers, but also the ministers - and we will end at the fixed and agreed time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u158	The rapporteurs can speak of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u159	We will give the floor to the rapporteurs for the amendments afterwards. Mr. Kokkalis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks for 12 minutes and Mr. Karathanasopoulos prepares.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u160	I will speak less, Madam President, to speak as many as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 44(1) of the Constitution provides for the procedure for the adoption of legislative acts in exceptional cases. Let's see, is the Greek Sugar Industry an extremely urgent case or isn't it? The regulation of the viability of the Greek Zacharis industry is directly related to the Greek economy itself and its relaunch, because the support of the Greek Zacharis industry means support for the primary and secondary sectors. Remember, in short, what the Greek Sugar Industry was and what it is today, because there is really no convincing counterpart, a convincing argument to vote against this act of legislation. Founded in 1961 with five factories. It was the first and only sugar production in Greece. When did the problems for the Greek Sugar Industry begin? Unfortunately, in 2006, when our country was forced to dismantle 5% of the sugar quota. Let me remind you again in 2006. Kari was the blow in the years 2011, 2012, with the announcements of the privatisation of the company and the sale of the Agricultural Bank. Who was it, really, government all these years? Are we making a mistake? Wasn't New Democracy? Wasn't PASOK? The sale of the Agricultural Bank - Mr Lafazanis is not here - should not be left alone in words. There are, in my humble personal view, and criminal responsibilities in selling the Agricultural Bank. And the farmers who see us must know. And I just wanted the New Democracy gentlemen to tell the farmers and tell them that the way we have shaped and supported the sale of the Agricultural Bank, at the moment in thousands of farmers, the liquidator has the floor. What does it mean to clear up, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and of New Democracy? Clearance means bankruptcy. What's the clearer doing in a company? Shares profits, collects claims and closes. What about the mortgages on the fields of the Greek peasants? What, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of PASOK, is going on with the promised fields? For whom will this mortgage be? Can you give Greek farmers and farmers such answers? At the moment, it is supposed to be 95% of agricultural parcels. Is the clearer entitled to the mortgage? Oh, no. The clearer will be over. Who's entitled? Let the New Democracy tell us who deserves the mortgage. The sale of the Agricultural Bank, in my view, has serious responsibilities, and this needs to be addressed. This government comes in and is trying to save the Greek Sugar Industry from the edge of the cliff in effect. And we hear from the opposition the question: 'Did you have a plan for sustainability?' Looks like they're kidding us. Do you agree to save, yes or no, the Sugar Industry? It's just things. You probably don't agree, so that's why you don't vote. So, you're saying the Sugar Industry is closed. The Greek people should know that. You should at least say it directly, as other parties call it. You can say this directly, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you want the Sugar Industry to close down. Don't you want there to be logging time in Greece? Don't you want the creditors to be paid? You don't want to pay the customs producers? Yes or no? One to be found to give me convincing answers to these issues. Also, one to find out if the sale of the Agricultural Bank - Mr Mitsotakis or Mr Hatzidakis is not here - was serving the interests of farmers, telling us the farmers' mortgaged fields now to whom they belong. They belong to the clearer, which will close. And we are being called today to apologise? No, of course not. At least, if the Greek people know the truth, Greek farmers and farmers will know the truth. As far as agricultural subsidies are concerned, we will not play with words. The mere grammar reading of the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u161	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u162	Of course? Are you a lawyer? When no exception is introduced, what does it mean? The rule that they're taxed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u163	When he has an exception to the rule?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Besyropoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u165	No, I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u166	No, I'm in trouble. I don't want to have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u167	Simple grammar, when no exception is introduced, as the amendment is introduced, what does it mean? It means that 2014 will be taxed over 12,000 euros. With what provisions and with what arguments or reasoning - I really want to hear you - the revenues of 2014 were duty-free? In ambiguity? Do not plead ambiguity of the law. Simple grammar, where the legislator does not introduce an exception, means the rule, taxation. That is why this explanatory statement by the Minister, which is why this particular wording 'can't be measured'. The expression in a explanatory statement'may not be counted' introduces an exception to the rule, where the rule'may not be counted' is stated in the explanatory statement. In any case, the New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami must give a clear answer to what this government, the Independent Greeks and SYRIZA are trying to do. They want the Greek Sugar Industry open? Yes or no? Do you want her open? Why don't you vote for it? Do you want to have time producers? Yes or no? It's on the edge of the cliff. The conditions for the adoption of the Act of Legislative content exist in the present case, because it is extremely urgent, as Article 44(1) of the Constitution states. So we want the Greek Sugar Industry to be sustainable? There was too much to do with maladministration and more. But we must finally say things by their name. Are we with farmers or aren't we? Are we trying to be? Should we at least tell the truth? Because some things aren't hidden. To support this government and to oblige the liquidator with an economic injection in order to pay the customs producers, like creditors, is responsible. Tell me what other act isn't responsible? The vote? Meaning? To close in the cleaner's precinct. I remind you, liquidator is bankrupt. That's the law. Distributes profits, receives claims, and in the end what? What's going to happen in the end? Because this legislative act and the object it regulates, such as the Sugar Industry, has a direct link with farmers and those from rural areas, we must warn farmers, who are in the cleanser's charm and nest. I say this again, the Agricultural Bank has shared in good and bad part, and the small and medium-sized farmers and farmers have mortgages on their loans and their fields. These mortgages, who will be the one to fulfill them? The liquidator itself? Oh, no. Where do you own their fields with the actions you have done with the sale of the arable land? You have to give specific answers and do not look and whistle indifferently. They also touch the limits of criminal liability some acts of the previous government. In view of all this, and because it is a genuinely responsible attitude, national support for the Sugar Industry is a one-way road. It is a one-way, because it advocates the creation of an industrial policy. Unfortunately, our country has no opportunity to have many industries. It has been able to have the Sugar Industry, and we as a state, as a legislative authority, have the power to support units which connect both the primary and secondary sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Red. I had announced when I gave Mr. Kokalis the floor that Mr. Karathanasopoulos will follow. I shall then give the floor to Mr Matthaopoulos who was absent from the Chamber when Mr Kokkalis came up in Step, which is why I did not announce him. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. The Government argues that by means of the legislative act it is trying to change the course of things and answer the big question about the productive dismantling of the Greek economy. In fact, both the rapporteur and the respective ministers have made lectures on the big problem, which the Greek economy has, that is, the decline in its production base. This is all very well, the imprinting of the reality of the situation, but you do not answer a question which we have put to you in committee. Who are responsible for shrinking Greece's production base? Because it's not industry, it's manufacturing. Another thing is the industry. Processing is industry. Who is responsible for this development of things? It's bad for our roots. Is it the god who hates us? What's the matter? Is it the previous governments? Of course, it's his fault. The other factor, however, is that we have contracted the production base, not only in the period of crisis, but also in the period of capitalist development in the shipbuilding, textiles, clothing, leather and in a number of other sectors of the economy that were destroyed in the 'fresh cows' period. So who are those responsible? What are the factors? What is the main factor? You do not want to answer that because you do not want to deal with the main factor and, indeed, this key factor is the interests you want to serve as well. The main factor, therefore, in the reduction of production activity, are capitalists, owners or shareholders of capitalist enterprises. They define what investment they will make, where they will invest, for what purpose they will invest and their only criterion is capitalist profit. Do they care, do they have a nail if a country's production base is shrinked? Do you think they have such concerns? Are they concerned about such matters? All they care about is how they will increase their profits and, indeed, how the return on capital invested, which they will have. That is why we have this development of things. Their choice is to shrink productive activities, because they have found other sectors or regions or other countries where their capital could invest more profitably. So here's the key factor. Secondly, Greece's participation in the decision of the capitalists themselves - these were the decision - of our country's own bourgeoisie in the EEC and the European Union initially later, where it speeded up this process. In fact, this process has accelerated even faster with EMU, the Maastricht Treaty and the liberalisation of markets, where any barriers to freedom of movement for capital, goods, services and workers have fallen. To what purpose did this happen? In order to be able to invest more easily in countries with cheaper raw materials, with cheaper labour. It is not a question or peculiarity of Greece to reduce processing activity. In all capitalist developed economies this phenomenon is observed. Their productive activity, their transformation, for the benefit of other sectors and other sectors of the economy, is slowing down over the years. This processing activity is carried into developing countries or with cheaper labour. That's the trend and we're not out of this trend. Of course, this process is much faster, much higher than in other countries. The third factor is, of course, the bourgeois governments, that is, the governments, namely, the management of urban governance, which have legislated and legislated and will always legislate on the basis of the needs of capital. That's what you do. You neither question the European Union nor the strategic choice of the bourgeoisie nor the bourgeoisie itself, the interests of the capitalists. On the contrary, with your actions, these interests are served. Before we go to the point, the question is: Really, how will you convince them that the capitalists will change their attitude to invest in productive activities in our country? Do you have any magic wand, or will you swing the economic laws of the capitalist system, the iron of the heel? You're making fun of the world on the substance. Let's talk clearly. You're making fun of the world. Once you say that those who have the keys to the economy, the capitalists, will continue to decide what they will do and we will simply shape the ground they want, then that's what the previous ones did. This also seems to be awkward in terms of the development of this act of legislation. What do you think you're gonna do? You have found the Sugar Industry, which is under collapse, under bankruptcy, with negative own funds, and you are injecting 30m euros, maintaining the entire previous framework intact. We asked you: Do you have a plan? Where do you incorporate these 30 million, this move? Just now, after two hours of the Ministers' position, Mr Lafazanis said: 'We have no plan, because we could not have a plan for the Sugar Industry in two months'. So where are you going? The unknown boater hope? The unknown boat of hope when you keep the whole frame intact? And you're a government, you're not opposition, you don't stand up to yourself. Of course, the New Democracy and the PASOK and New Democracy have had huge responsibilities for the evolution of things since 2006 when it was decided by reviewing the CFP by reducing by 50% the quotas and becoming an importing country in sugar from which we were exporting. In fact, we cannot even use this reduced quota today. Of the five factories two directly closed and now only one works. Did you change this regime? Are there the three factories still left, which are mechanically outdated? Forty years they've had machines. So, what productivity of work are you talking about? Would you change these machines? You put up a plan like that? Will you go against the laws of the capitalist market and the European Union on quotas? Will you be vigilant in the regulations of the European Union, so that the 30 million illegal state subsidies are not considered? Because there is a risk that the European Union will be viewed as illegal state funding and returned back with interest, which will be the final blow to the Greek Sugar Industry. You don't do that! You are disciplining the European Union regulations and paying back the fines of previous governments that have happened to you to repay them. So we are telling you - and you have said so, Minister - that there are EUR 800 million unsettled, which on 31-12 will be returned to the European Union. Take them! Discipline! You don't dare! You dare not say 'I go against the European Union regulations on the NSRF and I will use the 800 million to upgrade the Greek Sugar Industry'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u170	We don't have it in the cash register, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u171	Oh, now you don't have them on the fund! All right! Find several excuses, inventing various pretexts, to say that you can't do anything. Thirdly, for which there is nothing you can do: Mr Lafazanis came out here, as if he were a parliamentary representative of the Vice-President and denounced the previous government. Of course, he did well to denounce it because it is a strange and suspicious way to the Greek Sugar Industry. Others are the productive part, elsewhere her loans are! Of course, it is a strange choice that facilitates either the sale or the closure of the Greek Sugar Industry. Do you change this regime? Change this regime! Piraeus Bank is a bank controlled by the Greek State. 60% of its share capital isn't Greek State? Change it, then! Remove the Greek Sugar Industry from the clearer! Get her out of there if the clearer's purpose is to dive it out! This is what the liquidator wants to do, to divest the Greek Sugar Industry as an asset. Why don't you change that? You will find it as a pretext and you will say that the previous government has led the loans of the Greek Sugar Industry to Piraeus Bank and its productive part to the clearer. You're going to say you couldn't do anything, so the operation was led to the divestment of its assets to load the burden on others, washing your hands as Pontius Pilates. So that is what you will do in this case. That is why you say what the previous ones have done, because your design does not question the choices of the previous ones, it does not question the interests of the capitalists, it does not question the European Union's policy. After all, can't you answer some questions? Will the Greek Sugar Industry continue to be fascist, to import from third countries so that it can meet the needs why the production of beet in Greece is too small and as long as it is shrinking? More than 30 million have been made available - as it says here - for the 21 million. The 14 million out of 21 million went to these suppliers who gave us sugar, not to process it, but simply to standardise it and meet the needs and contracts of the Greek Sugar Industry. And only 915 grand went to the customs producers. This is at least paradoxical, even with the laws of the capitalist system that you say and defend. So decide what you want and where you want to go. And I shall end with the second part of the amendment. He made friendly efforts by the Minister, speaking more than an hour and making a record to prevent that there was a manoeuvre. So there was a shift in the way of the specific Article 2 of the amendment to the Act of Legislative content. And this approach was about integration into the regulation of the hundreds of doses from the window - not in the actual legislative procedure - by the act of legislative content of those who have made tax fraud and infringements. They're the ones you're gonna join in. That's why you released the 1 million that was the limit of the previous arrangement. So you have freed yourself by law from the limit of over 1 million to join the regulation and you come after three, four days to bring legislative action and to introduce into the regulation those who have made tax fraud, tax violations, conscious persons, i.e. tax fugitives. That is what you joined with this act of legislation. And the evidence presented yesterday by the Minister is what they say. 90% that has been set has only set 28.5% and 10% of the grandees have set 72% of the total amount set. And we're talking about the people who owed more than 10,000. We're not talking about them with over 1 million who's 1% and they've set about 12%, the many millions. So here there is a specific question. And, of course, the New Democracy has no reason to come out and shout. Just because the New Democracy gave fines. The amendment he has put forward is well known. But then it was a conciliation between the New Democracy government and the big capital. Today you are giving fines, you are giving extra taxes to big taxmen, but you say that this is your patriotic duty. And in one case the conciliation that the New Democracy made by giving fines, and in the other case where you are giving fines, the only winner is the big tax collectors, the big business groups that had been caught in the light. These are the great winners, because in one case they did not pay and have tax evasion, and in the other case you give them fines and extra money. In this respect, we say that it is scandalous to regulate. And we will insist that the names and elements of all those who joined and won through this process should be given. Because at the moment you're chasing the unemployed, the professional, the hired person to pay the full tax raid, all the characters imposed by the previous government, it's a challenge to give tens of millions to a handful of big businessmen. It's a challenge! We, for this very reason, are voting against the specific provision concerning Article 2 of the legislative act. In the case of the Sugar Industry, we say 'present' because the whole process is not going to lead anywhere. And you didn't tell us that you had a specific plan for the Greek Sugar Industry. Because the Communist Party of Greece despite the slanders that have been here, not only does it not want Industry to close but wants to develop. But it will not develop under the sovereignty of the European Union and its policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Matthaopoulos has the floor. And we are completing the circle of parliamentary representatives. There will be five Members left on the list of speakers and then we will give the floor to the Minister. Here, Mr. Matthew, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Two key questions have been raised so far. Are different Members asking who we are and who we are to blame for the whole situation? I think the answer can be given according to what each one of us owns. Because if you're with the losers, if you are, that is, the man who saw his income fall dramatically downwards, I'm talking about a memorial policy over the last five years, it's the system. If you're with the system, or if you're the same system, it's the workers who couldn't cope with the new memorial requirements of times. A number of concrete examples have been heard here, but the truth is one and it is still one, that for this poor situation, in which our economy, our homeland, has come, it is the Memorandum and those who have practiced it either as government or even as opposition. Because in the name of the Memorandum, workers were made redundant from the "Supplementary", "902", with various blackmail strikes deported a shipping industry and in the name of the Memorandum, because workers were no longer able to follow the new rhythms, hundreds of thousands of people have been fired, lost their jobs, the Greek economy is generally deceived, the human potential is deceived day after day and we have reached the point that we have more than two million Greeks unemployed, more than two million Greeks living below the poverty line. And, of course, these figures show the extent of the dissolution of the Greek economy, as well as the responsibilities arising from the exercise of this shameful policy. Of course, the fact that we are being called upon to put ourselves on a new act of legislation, I believe that we have exhausted it on several occasions. What you complain about, now you're doing it. But it is not a question of discussing a bill with the normal procedure or the urgency procedure. It is important what we are talking about and where we want to end up. So there is talk of the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry. Let's make a brief review, to see how he started a profitable company to be a ghost company today, to be on the verge of the paddock, no matter what it means to the local or the general Greek economy. Since 2006, so far the Sugar Industry has been a profitable company, a company that has covered both Greece and the needs of all the Balkans. We're talking about a business, which was up to a first lung of growth. On the basis of a plan, unfortunately, it was deceived today and I will prove that it has not been deceived by chance. Because if we look back a few months on the coexistence of a new Republic with PASOK, Mr Hardouvelis said that two factories should be closed, because he says so he demands the interest of the Greek economy. Listen, listen, it is important for Greece to close a factory that Mr Hardouvelis has produced to celebrate with the former Prime Minister and their partners in Europe that the numbers are now prospering. But they also had other responsibilities, apart from Mr Hardouvelis, because under European legislation some people acted on this suicide of the 50th of the national quota. So when the factory produced about three hundred thousand tonnes a year, under the legislation that you all applauded in here, the plant was now obliged to produce about, if I remember correctly, fifty - eight thousand tonnes a year. This, of course, has resulted in the factory itself, both for producers and for workers and for professions linked to the plant. But in all this the greatest disgrace to me, which was committed to the Greek economy, has been committed by the tooth circle banking system. And I come to speak with details: First and foremost, the Sugar Factory was a subsidiary of the Agricultural Bank of Greece. For the Agricultural Bank, we have repeated many times here that by selling it to Piraeus Bank it has literally become a hostage to the Greek farmer, the Greek farmer in the banks' lobbys. Being a subsidiary of the Agricultural Bank, the Sugar Industry factory, while it was profitable at first, it became able to owe about EUR 137 million. So when it was repurchased - sold out is the utility term - this bank at Piraeus Bank, the debts of the industry were transferred to Piraeus Bank. However, because the bank operates on private economic criteria, which means that it seeks profit alone and in no way cares whether or not to close a company by flying down workers on the road, it did the obvious: he said, "To not cause damage to the bank, it is preferable to close two factories because they cause greater damage to me than to keep them, paying or waiting to get loans in precarious shape." And that's what happened. So Mr Hardouvelis, in his decision, said that it is better here and now to close two factories. Of course, this debt of around EUR 140 million was unsustainable and from there the big downhill started. Some instructors came and told these people that they would have to get a loan to pay a previous loan at interest rate - on the market there was no similar -12%. 12% interest rate! I've got a clear taco-circulus. A company that was going to close, owed 140m euros, had to get a loan at 12% interest when market interest was much lower. And they told us in the Commission that we should celebrate that, because today we do not get 12%, we get 3% and 4%. And when our Buyer said, from Golden Dawn, that on today's terms these interest rates are outrageous, the bank representatives said, "Okay, what to do, we are looking at the profit of the banks, you are looking at how an industry works, which for us at the bottom - is a big weight." From there on, a number of bidders, who showed interest in purchasing the Sugar Industry, were also found to buy out its debts so that they could reopen it, so that they could produce sugar, a product that, if you know, has a very high price abroad, which is constantly increasing. This is to know that we who have the potential to produce such a product, with raw material that we will supply from our own producers, take our eyes off with our fingers, preferring to import raw materials from Bulgaria or, if you like it in general, from abroad. When this majority came, he tabled some specific proposals and said he would take over the entire factory, along with the debts of the Sugar Industry. What the government did not do, i.e., instead of sitting and discussing with any majority, was to put the same guarantor in order to ensure the viability of a factory, which can give real growth to the local and, more generally, the Greek economy. And here I put a very basic question: you are all talking about economics, invoke statistical data, invoke numbers, talk about who is to blame, who is not to blame. I'll invoke reason. It is not possible for a shareholder of a public limited company to participate only in profits and to withdraw from the losses. To say this in other words, it is not possible for a shareholder to revel in time of crisis. I have two specific cases to mention on this occasion: the banks and the respective boards of the Sugar Industry, which are mostly all appointed, either from New Democracy or from PASOK, as trade unions. And without wishing to blame people who have done what they have done, you cannot tell the shareholders when they are withdrawn because they know that the ship is on its way to the rocks, and, of course, we see the tragic situation of shareholders - whatever percentage they are involved in the company - who are retiring at the moment when they know that because of the mismanagement, which they themselves have been practicing, it will lead to a total inferiority of such an important factory, such as the sugar factory. So what should be done in the first phase - and put a perfect one on it - is to guarantee the public itself and not later, if there is any provision for damage, to privatise through the GOI and sell public property. There are too many alternatives, and I believe that perhaps the most advantageous at this stage is instead of subsidising or capitalising the banks, which always act as intermediaries, to immediately capitalise the factory itself, but by reconstituting its infrastructure. Because here there's a shadow, which we need to be clear about. If the capitalisation of 30 million is done in such a way that part of this capital or all this capital is exploited by the bank, it means that we will end up at the same point and simply waste some money. What you should do is definitely motivate producers to produce and know in time that they will not lose their money. I'll give you an example. When I visited the factory in Serres - and I did not visit it at an election time, but I visited it, because we are really interested in such matters - the management of the factory told me that the problem is complex here. There are producers who are willing to produce their crops, but when they are not given the price, as provided for by the law, i.e. on a specific date for a price to come out, but are given four and five months later there is no incentive for this man to produce, because he knows that he will lose his money. Similarly, when this suicidal embargo had become at the expense of farmers and farmers against Russia, which has subsequently been sanctioned by Russia against Greece, all Macedonian producers said that we cannot operate in such a vague context, because the government itself does not guarantee that we will not lose our money, and, of course, the factory will start to endure operating, importing raw materials from abroad and reaching the present mess that we all know about. So it does not matter whether the 30 million will later become 40 million or 10 million or 100 million, this is about management. As long as there is in the middle a middle of a leasing called "bank", whatever it is, then you realize that we will end up with the same result. For us, the primary production sector is an area that must definitely operate at any cost. Instead of giving the troika and the institutions 750 million, giving them to primary production, farmers, fishermen, farmers, people who want to work, so that we can finally give a breath to a sector which, if it works properly, will give the Greek economy a life. Madam President, I will make a comment and end with it. On the whole of the legislative content we vote 'at present' because we believe that a factory in Greece must at last operate, but we cannot, respectively, squeeze a microphore, that is to say, man who could not afford to cope with the folklore that the state had no fiscal information, which was not controlled by the State and waited for it to be included in a regulation, operating in unfair competition. Our special speaker will be placed later on for the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. We have five Members who have left the list of Members to speak. I mention their names in the order to come to Stepma: Mr. Kodelas, Mr. Besiropoulos, Mr. Davakis, Mr. Hussein Zabeck and Mrs. Stabullis. I propose that we give the floor to the Minister immediately to present the amendments and to the rapporteurs of the groups. I think that five minutes are enough time to put them on the table so that we can conclude the draft law today. Mr. Kidela, you have the floor. I would also like to ask Mr Kidela and all the next speakers to keep to the six-minute deadline.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u175	Madam President, I would like to take the floor to put forward a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u176	Is Mr. Kidelas gonna finish his speech first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u177	I would like to speak for a moment, Madam President. I apologise to the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u178	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u179	There is a very substantial legislative improvement, which relates to an omission in the amendment with a general number of 137 and a specific number of eight dates 7-5-2015. In particular, paragraph 1 of the article entitled ‘Amendment of Code of Income Tax (c.4172/2013)’ gives the following legal improvements: ‘part of the aid exceeding’ is replaced by ‘part of the aids and subsidies exceeding 12000’, etc. The phrase 'and subsidies' was forgotten. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kidelas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is of particular importance that today's debate, particularly on the issues it opens up. And they open up the issues of production and the primary and secondary sectors, which are precisely the country's risk, i.e. whether there will be productive reconstruction or whether productive larvae will continue. The Greek Sugar Industry is an example of how these have been exploited through distortions, pathogens and policies that have been followed especially in recent years, and this all the way to the establishment, productive dismantling and desertification, which especially in the period of the memorandums has been characterized and divestment of these enterprises. So all these years we have led to a reduction in production and production of the country's capacity. It has been heard that agricultural production is below 3% of GDP. Suffice it to say that between 2000 and 2010 imports exceeded exports, by EUR 23 billion and that there is no talk of this, about the productive deficit that has led to this situation. We have also led to imports and dependency on basic nutritional goods. The sugar we are debating today is one such example. The Greek Sugar Industry by a large producer - one-stop shop in the region - has changed to a large importer of sugar from Germany, France, Poland. At home in most households the majority of the sugar we consume is an import, and that is what Greek citizens need to know. We are also talking about the 30m euros, this breath today for the Greek Sugar Industry, and we need to discuss and start, in my opinion, from the following: The trade deficit - 2010 are these - in the category of sugar, preparations and honey minus EUR 92 million. That is the essence of the debate. If it is not reversed in products that we have the possibility, the country's deficit and economic bleeding are many times the damage we are coming today to cover the malfunctions that exist at this level. The second is that the effects of the common agricultural policy, particularly on sugar beet, as on other commodities, are being met in this case of sugar, with the failure of the political system that managed the fate of the country and these industries. And we are talking about corruption, about how they were run, what policies have been implemented, who have been favoured, about the impunity that has existed and the greedy ultimately on this public property. And all this is getting married together with the bankruptcy of a development model, which has promoted the country's productive dismantling of the emphasis on the tertiary sector and a transit hub, without exploiting it, but rather undermining its potential. In this sense, the essence of the debate is the reconstruction and transition from a distorting and parasitic model to a productive, transition from one country to a country of imports and dismantling into a country of production and self-regulatory products that it can produce, the transition from a country - the burden of foreign investment and investors to a country with endogenous development - by exploiting its own forces and by giving participa and income to those who work and produce wealth - and, of course, the transition from the recipe of the so-called reforms of the troika, the institutions, the New Republic of previous convergence - which was about liberalisation, internal valuation, generalized liberalisation, privatisation, the famous OECD tool - which leaves our market unforgettable and unprotected production, to a model of reforms and sectors, which would promote the raising and supporting of domestic production and changes in the productive model. These are political and economic independence conditions of the country, and what is described is precisely the main objectives of productive reconstruction. There is one question, however, who will combine it and who will implement it, and in this sense it is not enough, nor is it a matter of a single ministry, to want and want the relevant ministries as well. It is not just a question of the will and will of a government, which the government as a whole must want to strive and bend on the issue of productive reconstruction, but it is also a question of full activation of society. In this sense, we need a movement for productive reconstruction, which will concern issues of production, movement and consumption, that is, the whole chain. It is therefore about derivative producers, those who know how to grow, work, produce wealth. We need their knowledge and experience and their will and their work. It concerns scientists and especially young scientists, who want to contribute and help in this reconstruction plan. It concerns citizens and consumers. And I would say that it is specifically about consumers, because there must be a consumer movement to support the consumption of domestic quality products instead of imported products. In this sense, freshness, ideas, power, action, dedication and provision of all of them are needed, so that this titanium rebuilding project can work. I would say that it also requires the collapse of the corrupt and parasitic political system. That's the one condition. The second condition is that the country should be decapitated from the noose of the memorials, the bankruptcy machine and the recipes of the troika. That is why we must not be sliding and accepting the suffocating framework of the memorial policies that they want to bring us back. That is why we must organize - and it should already be organized - our resistance to the ultimatum that came and come. That is why our basic political power must be exploited, which is the world that is thirsty for freedom, democracy, jobs, production and justice. That is why the hope that has been born in our country must not be cancelled. I shall conclude by referring to the two amendments. I shall be speaking on one side on agricultural subsidies. I heard Mrs Arabatzis and Mr Kegeroglu, who were really provocative. And they were provocative because if this amendment is not passed, Greek farmers will be taxed for compensation and subsidies from the first euro with 13% plus 27.5% for tax advances. Be honest, because here there are some questions. First, have you talked to accountants to tell you what they'll do if this doesn't pass? Secondly, why did a multitude not come out for two years to say that subsidies and compensation are excluded? We know that you have been begging, you have been running two years in the Ministries, you have asked questions, and you have not made any practical commitment. And, if you'd like, I think we should drop her. And I suggest it to the Minister. But you must commit that, from you and from your party, taxes on subsidies and allowances will be paid, if this amendment does not go beyond, Greek farmers will be taxed from the first euro. If you're committed, let the Minister get her back and see how you get through it. Apart from this amendment, however, there are some other things that you must apologise here, ladies and gentlemen, for having ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Kidela...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u183	I'm sorry, Madam President, I'll be brief. Taxation on farmers is 13% of the first euro and tax advance is 27.5%. And it is now 27.5%, with the amendment, because it was 55%. And you falsely said he's already been to 27.5%. And 13% is for the difference between real income and evidence, which I say for a house and a car is about 12,500 euros. What you were preparing is a nightmare. And this change we're making is a relief. However, there is still a need for areas of taxation, because now we are going to turn to disinvestment and overcompensation for Greek farmers. In this sense, the move and the amendment are positive. It is unacceptable that what you are saying is false and you are mocking - and I say it directly - Greek farmers. Of course, other steps need to be taken, because there must be no more burdens on the country's production, when we are discussing how production and the primary sector will be supported. I'm just finishing up with the folk thing. Paragraph 1 is necessary. We've been asking her for a long time. It gives an extension of up to 30 June on the issue of licences, so that they can make use of the hundreds of doses that are uninformed. I think it's a little bit of a hurry about the rest of the issues. I keep the Minister's commitment that, in the next few days and weeks, a new draft law on a number of changes to be made to the rural trade bill will be tabled, with sufficient time for consultation and discussion and participation of the parties involved. Let me briefly mention that there is a lot of bureaucracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Kidela, please. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u185	I'm done, Madam President. ...there are problems in the three-member committees that we need to correct, and we need to discuss them with the Ministry of Economy, and there are issues with the outdoor world trade. I shall conclude by saying that the debate on production is of urgency. If there were any legislative act, it would be this debate and not how it opens up here, but how it opens up in society. Because the solutions are not going to come in here. There is a need for the treaty here, but not sufficient. The solutions will emerge from those who know, from those who want, from those who can help keep our country on its feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Kidela. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fourteen German students from the University of Applied Sciences of Kiel. The Greek Parliament welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Besiropoulos has the floor and Mr Davakis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the legislative act, which we are debating today, concerns the regulations on the sustainability of the Greek Sugar Industry and the due debts. I would like to begin with the second part concerning the settlement of outstanding debts. On the contrary, there is a Civic Opposition that is fully conscious of reality, ready to assist and support moves in the right direction. This new regulation, which you have tabled, is far from being considered to be aimed at facilitating those who are in a weakness and face great difficulties in paying. I am referring to the widening of the scope and the limits of the hundred instalments, to which the additional taxes on n may now be subject. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These are taxes from late or inaccurate tax declarations, which have been considered as fines since 2014. Let me remind you that the Samara government was the first to set up a framework of arrangements with Mr. 4152/2013 for the forty-eight doses, which improved even further with v. 4305/2014, which reduced the interest rate and extended the number of instalments from seventy-two to one hundred. Now you come with article 1 of the n. 4321/2015 and impose its horizontal application. You are not separating cases when it comes to large-scale dealers over EUR 1 000 000 for their inclusion in the fine regulation. The Minister may have said that she does not know how to make her tax declaration, but I imagine she will know that these debtors are termed 'big debtors'. That is why it is necessary to separate and control, to identify who did not or did not have difficulty in paying and who did have the opportunity, but who did not pay. Because, in the second case, we are dealing with a clear picture of a deliberate, fraudulent and six-year-old tax evasion. The concept of any regulation of debt, in order to be acceptable and to strengthen the sense of social responsibility and tax compliance, must be guided by clear and specific rules. I come to the regulation on the Greek Sugar Industry, which is hypothetically aimed at its sustainability. Sustainability is not guaranteed by financial injections. Sustainability requires a plan with beginning, middle and end. Such a plan has not been presented by you. A company that has a production cost of EUR 1,000 tonne and sells the corresponding quantity of EUR 500, which has multiple injurious uses and has debts of EUR 143,000 to Piraeus Bank, cannot continue to operate with the same model. None of us had any objections about the performance of workers, customs producers and their support. You come and have 30,000,000 euros from the assets of the Agricultural Bank in liquidation. However, there is a number of questions relating to questions that have not been answered. Are you sure that the rules, regulations of the European Union on State aid are complied with, that the conditions set out in Article 107 are complied with? Is there any information from the European Commission or will the money be called back if the State aid is considered illegal? They are questions asking for answers, of course, and with the crucial question of the company's viability, an issue that concerns workers and customs producers who want truths. Because the major is the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, in closing my speech, to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, on the apparent exemption from the taxation of allowances and agricultural subsidies. I think Mrs. Deputy Minister deliberately complicates and obscures the facts. I am not going to talk about the inconsistency of statements by at least two ministers of the government who promised that agricultural aid would not be taxed. I have to tell you first of all, Minister, what is not agricultural subsidies and compensation? It is not an income, it is not a deductible expenditure, as you have mistakenly mentioned, in reply to a fellow Member's question. It is necessary to clarify why, with the reference to the word 'profit' in your amendment, you are not only making a serious mistake. I am afraid you are opening up the issue of the taxation of agricultural subsidies. You are coming today and you are bringing an amendment which is not simply in the wrong direction, but which also leads to overtaxation for farmers. The worst thing is that you are opening a ferry door to the fixed taxation of agricultural aid with or without a plaque. You are setting up a threshold of 12 000 euros, above which agricultural subsidies will be taxed at a rate of 13%. I do not know where you have found the evidence you have invoked, that only 10% of farmers will be taxed in accordance with this arrangement. That is not true, because we are simply talking about the direct aid given to farmers, but about the whole agricultural aid that a farmer receives in the course of his business. There will therefore be many people who will be overtaxed and not just 10%, as you say. It is also clear that it opens a bad precedent. In the future, the taxation of agricultural aid may be a constant practice. Invoke him. 4172/2013 to justify unjustified. And yet, in Article 21 of this law, it is clear what is meant as agricultural income. In Article 21, Minister, especially in the case of agricultural business, special reference is made to the revenues included in the concept of such income and these are exclusively revenues from the production of agricultural products. The Minister won't listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u188	No one's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u189	What you need to understand is that agricultural subsidies and compensation are not an income. In particular, for aid, the concept is that it is given in order to ensure sustainable farming. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u190	You must stop, Madam President, since there is no Minister here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u191	I would ask you to stop a little bit and then continue and I ask you to inform the ministers to come to the Chamber. Mr. Stamatis, you have seen that I am applying the Rules of Procedure. Since the Minister and the Minister are here, please continue, Mr. Vesuropoule.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u192	I'll repeat. Invoke him. 4172/2013 to justify unjustified. And yet, in Article 21 of this law, it is clear what is meant as agricultural income. In Article 21, Minister, especially in the case of agricultural business, special reference is made to the revenues included in the concept of such income and these are exclusively revenues from the production of agricultural products. What you need to understand is that agricultural subsidies and compensation are not an income. In particular, in the case of aid, the concept is that it is given in order to ensure sustainable farming. You come and tax a four-member rural family who all work in the field with an income that may not exceed EUR 15,000 to EUR 20,000, only because they happen to have received subsidies that go beyond the cap you place. It is a question of the problems that this amendment creates and you will find them in front of you. At a critical time when the agricultural sector needs support in order to restore the country's food adequacy, but also to become competitive and extroverted, you are now officially taxing agricultural subsidies and creating conditions of excessive tax burden. I have placed myself in a public and timely position on the issue of the taxation of agricultural aid, and I repeat this to you today. If there is ambiguity in the law, as you say, and you really want to give a solution to the problem, the purely legislative solution is one that clearly states that the profit from agricultural business is not accounted for by subsidies and allowances from national funds and resources of the European Union and therefore is not included in taxable income. But you, in order to justify your conversion and the promises you have left, are going to make this arrangement, trying again to mislead farmers. This is because the taxation of agricultural aid is a misunderstanding. I have no doubt that this regulation, which will impose an excessive tax burden on farmers, has been imposed by the financial derailment of the last three months and by the lack of cash available. It seems that farmers will pay very much for the government's improvisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. Mr Davakis has the floor for six minutes, and then Mr Hussein Zabeck.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, from a number of time to time we have witnessed new things, expressions and positions expressed in this Chamber by colleagues in the House, in which we have not been used to either so many years of opposition nor in their recent governmental life, in the last four months. So we learned from the rapporteur for the Association yesterday that Greece is an industrial country, and we were told that it is finally the chimneys of the Greek industries that start smoking, with what brings together the general position of SYRIZA with its components, regarding industrial production, the Greek industrialist and trader and all those who compose and compose for years the economic reality of this place. What makes us all wonder: These changes of Janus, the two faces presented by this government, from what is being pressed on? For so far, what goes on with each Greek citizen, and especially every Greek citizen, as long as the time goes, is the economic reality that is crushing him in the future, the economic concern about what will come about, as far as the agreement is concerned, in comparison with what Mr Lafazanis always says about "a struggling attitude of the Government towards the interest sharks, our lenders and all those who are taking advantage of us". I cannot get away from the basic principle of the legislative initiative, again seeing a legislative act, for the revitalization of the Greek Sugar Industry. Nor can I forget that this fact that for four months you have been abdicating, accusing and mocking is the one that the visionary and founder, Constantine Karamanlis, founded the Greek Zacharis industry in 1960. It is this party, which stood next to the Greek farmer and linked his future to processing, agricultural production and the agricultural industry. What was fifty years after the Left's attitude towards all this? Today, you only need to deal with history when it comes to withdrawing your own government responsibilities in the last few months, because we are no longer talking about periods of grace of government or extending time, to find out, as Mr Lafazanis said, that in one month we will bring forward a proposal for the Greek Sugar Industry. In any case, we must also think about the history of everyone in this Chamber. Legislative acts, which have been constantly denounced by you before you take up government duties, and today come as a lifesaving or through verbal references to 'first aid bills' or 'extensive needs', etc., are those which basically catalyse parliamentary order, parliamentary ethics and create wholehearted impressions on all of us, even to you, fellow Members of the government, to the new colleagues who come to form themselves on an unprecedented parliamentary practice. I would therefore like to say that, although the Parliamentary Representative of the River has said that it is an anti-patriotic act, the question that has not so far been raised must also be addressed, namely the State Aid Unit, concerning the 30 million which you will be disbursing for the Greek Sugar Industry. Will the Greek citizen be punished? Is there going to be what we all remain silent about? The Greek taxpayer? You need to see it, Minister, and tell us if the State Aid Unit has been asked. I would also like to mention the farmers' tax, the amendment you are bringing to the limit of EUR 12 000 from Community subsidies. In addition to what the previous colleague has explained in detail, there is something else I would like to say. Last year the method of calculating the taxable income of farmers has changed, Mr Minister, which has caused serious problems for all of us, especially the Greek farmer. There are the farmers under the special scheme. If they have not been able last year to collect all their expenses through invoices, so that the financial result can be properly determined, they will pay a much higher tax than in the past. The Government must look at this issue and consider corrective actions such as introducing a minimum tax rate or deducting from the tax of an amount, as is the case in the tax scale of employees. As we all know, all wings, the Greek farmer is not income. The Greek farmer, who is called upon to keep the revenue and expenditure books - and this is a great debate, we can do so at another time, all colleagues here not only of the opposition, who from the Greek region have a lot of experience to offer you - is the one who must be very careful today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. What I told you, in relation to tariffs, which are difficult to collect, must be seen, Minister and Minister, so that there can be a better legalisation on this matter. I am very careful about Mr Hadjimitriou's suggestion about the Greek Sugar Industry. Last night I attended him by the television receiver, and I did see that my colleague is very aware of this case, which is called Greek Sugar Industry, and I would say, Minister, that you should consult him on many issues relating to the Greek industry. In conclusion, I would like to say this: it is now time to think here where things have arrived and to see all the things that unite us for the salvation of our country. Let us all remember what we all remember three - four years ago PASOK colleagues accusing the New Democracy of government for dogmas, for these things, and look at issues that will be able to get us out of the deadlocks, in which the country has come, dead-ends that are basically due to a continuous left-wing rhetoric that so many years and the Greek industry and Greek production and the Greek economy had established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr. Hussein Zabeck has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, agricultural production has been in the past - and we hope it will also be the engine of the Greek economy. As was quite rightly noted yesterday in the plenary debate, the development of the Greek economy is based almost entirely on the provision of services and not on the primary and secondary sectors of the economy, which is paradoxical, as rural and industrial production could have been more exploited over the years, with much better results than today. In particular, this approach has been taken by the previous governments and this appears clearly from 2006 onwards, with an example of the policies that led to a two out of the five factories of the Greek Sugar Industry. Therefore, if we want to look for the reasons of its current deadlock, we will see that it is the review by the European Commission of the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector since 2006, which has led our country to a release of 50% of the national sugar quota, thus closing the plants in Larissa and Xanthi. Also, the concentration of 75% of sugar production in just five European sugar industries has completely taken the Greek Sugar Industry off the map. The final hit was given in 2011-2012 by the announcement of privatisation and by the sale of the Agricultural Bank of Greece to Piraeus Bank, while granting the company's loans to the Agricultural Bank of Greece and its property details to Piraeus Bank. So we reach the point of only operating the plant in Platy, closing the factories in Serres and Orestiad. The closure of factories comes as a result of the degrading prices of sugar, so that many acres are not cultivated. A total of seventy thousand beet acres were cultivated in 2014 from four hundred twenty-eight thousand acres grown in 2005, when the company managed all five factories. So we arrive at the present situation of the Greek Sugar Industry, which according to its half-yearly report is: "The company is facing serious financial, operational and structural problems. Liquidity problems, collapse of the sugar price, while there are debts to customs producers, lenders and workers.’ We, through the legislative act, in fact ensure the short-term viability of the Greek Sugar Industry and the protection of Greek undertakings dependent on the purchase of raw materials by the industry. We also allow the sugar industry to go through a new situation, enabling the new administration to proceed with rationalisation of labour costs and employment relations, but also, of course, to restructure the company. It is a matter of politics, ladies and gentlemen, as instead of choosing to resale or go bankrupt, we choose to support it and with it to support customs producers and workers. But I would also like to make a reference to the factory of the Greek Sugar Industry in Xanthi. In the area of Xanthi, the factory of Xanthi last operated as a production unit in 2006, and a modification of the object of bioethanol production was then promoted, but a project that was never implemented. After dismantling the production equipment, storage facilities and packaging equipment were used for the packaging, storage and management of the other plants in the group. At the end of 2013, the remaining employees received their compulsory transfers for the Plateos and Serres factories, resulting in the total cessation of the activities. We consider that the plant could be reopened, since the Greek Sugar Industry ensures its viability in the packing. This will stimulate both the local economy of Xanthi, but it will also mean restoring the injustices from previous governments to workers and customs producers. For our region, it is very important to produce sugar beet, since the closure of the company and the rest of the cooperative factories was the main cause of unemployment in the region. For us, ladies and gentlemen, real development goes through tax reconstruction and employee support. The Government with this initiative supports the country's productive fabric, the operation of public and cooperative enterprises, such as the Greek Sugar Industry, which support the Greek economy as a whole and can be the solution to the country's development problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too, Mr Zabeck, who was the last of the list of speakers. I would like to hear about the procedure with the parliamentary groups. We will give the floor to the Minister for ten minutes to present the amendments. Immediately afterwards, the rapporteurs will take the floor for five minutes and we will proceed to close the sitting. Here you go, Mrs. Valavani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u198	But I must at least have at least one comfort to say two things beyond the amendments. These are two amendments. I would like to correct Mr Cartassouli, who said that we are dangerous and who has shown a dangerous ignorance. They are not amendments to the legislative text in practice. This is forbidden by the Constitution. No legislative act is amended. Whether it's adopted whole or rejected, as it is. He said a lot of things that had nothing to do with reality. I'll just say the second because it's too fat. He said that what we did, that a few days after the law was passed, we brought an act of legislation, it can only be likened to what happened - I say to him because I lived it, as I was SYRIZA's rapporteur on the specific events - in 2012, when Parliament had deplored, they built - he said - something like a legislative act and they passed it. I will tell him that for once and for all this has been done in the previous government's term of office. The main draft law on privatisation in October 2012 was rejected. A majority was created within the House, the government block was broken and article 4 which had six provisions and a broom amendment by Mr Stournara, who had twenty-two provisions, was voted against. A total of twenty-six provisions. So since the majority of the House voted against twenty - six fundamentally separate legislation, the government in three days made the bill of one article and put it likewise and the twenty - eight regulations in the bill of one article. You were either voting for it all or the government fell. I would like to know what he thinks is analogous to what is going on today. What happened today? The House voted by a majority for the law on regulation up to a hundred instalments. I have also referred to the committees and yesterday, not to mention the details again. The next day, after the publication of the "Free Press", which I tabled yesterday in the Minutes, on the tax trap that said there is in the finest letters of the law, the process was initiated on Monday, and I had abandoned the efforts, because the electronic statement was not able to be opened, when I learned that there is an act of legislative content for the Sugar Industry, I suggested that it should be added there. Now what this has to do with a parliamentary coup, where the will of the majority of the House is violated, let everyone draw its conclusions and understand who are dangerous - we, as my colleague says - or who is dangerously ignorant. He's talking about things he doesn't know, they don't have a ratio. And he does not even know whether what we are proposing here as an amendment amends the act of legislative content, which is certainly not made by the Constitution, or by the ratification bill itself, which you can of course bring as many amendments as this House can bring. But let us go to the amendments. There are a number of urgent arrangements concerning tax declarations. Let me say from the outset that I have said to all those who say 'how can free trade be taxed, farmers, all of them from the first euro', that two tax bills cannot be made. We'll make a tax bill on incomes 2015. What have we done with the existing bill? Some completely extreme, the most extreme real cases found before us. Three cases voted together with the regulation of up to 100 doses - you can find them - and the ones we are bringing now. First is the settlement of unrealised rents, which I think I don't have to say any more. A tax cannot be paid for rents that have not been collected. Then there are the three regulations for farmers. This is where reality has really been overthrown, I find no other explanation. Because if I do withdraw them - as Mrs Arabatzi has asked me - and we go where they are, farmers will be taxed on subsidies and subsidies, from the first euro, with 13%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u199	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u200	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u201	Where does he say that? You're afraid they're going to the tax courts and they're going to be vindicated against the officials. That's what you're afraid of!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Besyropoulou, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u203	I'll do it if you insist. If you insist, I'll withdraw it. Do you know what Mr. Kegeroglu is saying, that he fell like a lightning in a thorn, the farmers' tax? It's anguish. I'm telling you, for example, why there was a dick so much, and I'm gonna take, you guys, I'm gonna bring them here to show them from the GDR, from the General Secretariat of Public Income. It's the vulture of agony, the tenth of the twelfth in the twelfth that everyone was addressing. The "What's gonna happen?" he said, "What's gonna happen? We're taxing if you don't take action. Will you take steps to stop?'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u204	Where'd that go from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Vésyropoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u206	They were rural clubs and rural municipalities that addressed the same racing question. And I challenge: Find me an answer - three months' time is these and I tell you that they are completely indicative - given the period of the previous government to these agonizing questions about what is going to happen with taxation, saying that they will not be taxed. Do you know why no answer was given? I asked directly. Because they're going to be taxed. It's simple. Because that's how you interpret, not our period, but your period. So you don't want to say lightnings in ethos, do you want me to tell you that here I have the same racing question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u207	Show me the interpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Besyropoulou, please! You won't talk another time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u209	...which says - I'm sorry, half a minute to find it and show it to you - 'New Democracy, Secretariat for Agricultural Agencies', and he asks the same things: 'What'? And he says, "Give us an answer, why are farmers struggling, and we need an answer to know" and he asks whether this should change. Do you know that? I got it through the command. Find an answer given. I was answered by people themselves that they did not give an answer why they could not give an answer. The only answer they could give during your governance was that they would be taxed from the first euro. And now we - take note - of the question asked by Mr Kegeroglu by the rapporteur, who have been working for years - and one and the other - with farmers and know very well what the situation is, saying, 'What are you going to do'? Before we expressed our intentions for this, we were asked what to do. And we answered, what we're bringing now to legislate here, where does it say what? Firstly, compensation - and here he asks for compensation - will not be taxed independently of a cap, because it is terrible to think that compensation can ever be taxed, and, secondly, subsidies and aid up to EUR 12 000. How did the 12,000 euros get in? We looked into it in detail - the Minister responsible is not here - and the specific information that was available is that he covers - I did not say it, I preferred to say over 90% and I will tell you why - 97%. But why? Because they'll be paid from previous years, it goes around 90%. In other words, if this were a fixed and not a transitional arrangement, it would be 3% of the farmers. The poor and the middle farmers are leaving. A third, which is regulated here, apart from the fact that compensation and aid are not actually taxed, is that a tax is generated from EUR 2 000 to EUR 12 000. The greatest amount of aid and compensation is up to 2,000 euros, not to mock the world, to say things the way they are. Because what has happened here today with farmers is foolishness, there is no other interpretation. What else did we do? Do you know how much the deposit was? It was 55%. Only farmers who made a statement for the first time had half of them, that is 27.5%. We have now brought in a provision in which 55% is made to 27.5% and for those who are the first to make a statement, either young farmers or younger farmers who have never been in charge, who had 27.5%, it will go to 13.75%, to say things by their name at last. To close up with the farmers, that's all. What if I finally withdraw the amendment? Ask the GATT to give you an answer. They'll be taxed normally. This is the direction taken for tax declarations, as the competent authority responds with administrative and financial self-sufficiency, 'the independent tax automation', which Mr Diaselblum says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u210	So why don't you legislate not to be taxed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u211	We'll legislate on the second half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u212	Why don't you legislate now, since there's ambiguity?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u213	Don't be taxed at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Mitsotakis, Mrs. Arabaji, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u215	You bring farmers to tax from the first euro, that is, the small and medium-sized farms all in, we bring you a regulation which only taxs the upper part and you have a problem. I mean, that's really...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u216	It's unbelievable, he's a nerve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u217	Unbelievable is what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u218	OPAP agency. We've really seen everyone and they've come to you too - you know - with the knife in the neck. We told them that we would legislate in the second half, and we were told that half the agencies would have shut down. It's a small cover of insecure that they think is a matter of life or death. And these sums that he says here are not agencies' revenues up to EUR 500,000, and over EUR 500,000 1%, are the ones that go to the OPCW. Fourthly, exemption for parents and guardians from the obligation to submit an income tax when they obtain only revenue in the pursuit of their purpose, for example from the contributions of their members, who are not subject to tax, because all the associations of parents and guardians should also submit for those not taxed. Accordingly, the informal associations of owners and tenants of any building or office building shall also be exempted. Where they do not acquire tax income they are no longer required to submit an income tax statement. Last, 2% discount. The old 1.5% has been abolished for at least two financial years for those who pay only up to 31 July and the two other instalments. Let me make it clear that this has nothing to do with the bonus of the consistent taxpayers, which is to be introduced for those who pay normally over the last three years. The third will be the income of 2015 from our tax bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u219	Mrs Valavani, I would ask you to shorten up a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u220	Yes, sir. I heard it's considered small. I am not saying that it is great, but I will tell you that for someone who can raise this money or much more he has it in the bank so that he can pay forward, it is extremely interesting, because there is a five-month discount of this 2%, July and November, which means that it is 0.4% a month, that is, 4.8% an annual interest rate. I'm telling you that any forward deposit today, it moves to 1%, to 1.2%, to 1.3% maximum. It is a discount rate four times the best rate the banks offer for very large amounts and it is of interest to those who have this financial opportunity to get the money from the bank and pay a one-off fee, helping the state as well. There is a mistake in the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which says it increases 1.5% and becomes 2%. There is no 1.5% not only in the legislation of summer 2013, which for the first time applies to the financial year 2014, but had already been abolished and was not even in the financial year 2013. The second amendment concerns the regulation of up to a hundred instalments of Law4321 in relation to the problem of seizing public debt accounts for debtors, natural persons or businesses who wanted or want to be regulated. Look, let's just say things. There's a pan-Hellenic problem. Before the arrangement was opened, while the law had been passed for about a month and a half - the arrangement took twenty days - rain issues from all over Greece that they have raised some money to set up and frozen their accounts. Although I have appealed, the tax mechanism itself has its own rules, and in this case they have essentially continued in this way to prevent them from entering the regulation. This is a real problem, we discussed it with the General Secretariat of Public Income. We have been told that it is not solved with a POL and has to be solved by legislation. On the basis of this, the one who has frozen his accounts ten days ago - must be a ten-day time to do this - must normally make the electronic statement, go to the regent - the regents are asking for circulars or legislation to do so - and the responsible must initiate the process of performance by the bank and cover the regulation. I say ten days, because the bank has the right to hold the money until it delivers it to the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u221	Ms. Valvanie, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u222	I shall conclude, Madam President. Let me tell you that in relation to the second amendment I was wrong. That was the last of the first amendment. There are three issues. I'm telling you all about it. The first Article shall extend the deadline for the submission of the declaration E9 to natural persons and undertakings until 30 June at the latest, without consequences. They gave it to us from the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and it's true. The second article responds to a request from thousands of people from all over Greece who have handed over their license plates. It enables them, as was the case last year for the first time, to be able to get their license plates back, paying not all the time, as it is now, but only the months, starting from the month they apply. As far as the third article is concerned, let me say it more relaxed, as Mr Koutsoukos says, because it is a very serious article and, as is in the amendment, nobody understands what it is all about. It is not possible to regulate what was intended but because the word 'tax' had been inserted. Confirmed and non-tax debts and revenues in favour of third parties from which nothing is cut but exploited - there is no impairment - up to a hundred instalments. I have asked the tax administration, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, not to say one or two, to give me a list of who it is, as coherent as possible. I'm reading the list. Fines for administrative authorities, town planning, arbitrary use, traffic, port, various ministries, the Securities and Market Commission, Competition Commission. Charges of civil servants. The hospitals, the rights to use radio frequencies, the fees for the use of work machinery, the price of the land sold by the State, the arbitrary compensation, the rent and immovable property of the State, the rents of seafood space, the legal fees, the penalty payments, the payments guaranteed by the Greek State loans, the other loans, the amounts collected in favour of various third parties, such as local government bodies, funds and insurers, legal entities governed by public law, for example hospitals, etc. Let me close - I have no time to say all this - in a word, that on the issue of fiscal consciousness, you must not have 40% of GDP due on public loans alone, except for banks and insurance funds, to put it first. It's very basic, but if the first place, it means that from 40 percent you'll go to 80% and close in total. I wanted to say to Mr Hatzidakis - and I have said to the committee - that I have no problem with my left conscience, because you have asked me again. When I'm in trouble, make sure I say it. I have no problem, because I am a minister, not to say, when I have to defend something with which I do not agree. I think that the political morality of the small and medium-sized ones being able to make it easier for them and to have the large banks too to pay by telling them - I said it from the first moment the law came here, long before the legislative act - that it will immediately wait for them as soon as the regulation of those who have not entered and that it will have very serious consequences, I think that this is not a question of political morality on the left, but a question of common morality, as the vast majority of society understands.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u223	Mrs Valvaani, you are obliging me to appeal for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u224	I will conclude in a minute, Madam President. I wanted to say to Mr Vésyropoulos that I did not say that I do not know how to make my tax declaration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u225	It was a figure of speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u226	I said I've never completed a tax statement myself. The rest I didn't say is that from the forty years of our common life, the thirty-nine of my husband filled it, without any help from an accountant. And the "before" and all that my husband's submitted has filled. I trusted him, anyway, so I did not interfere and not because I did not want them or because I left them to my accountant or anything else. I conclude with the following to Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Koutsouko. I wanted to tell you things, Mr Kutsuko, but I am not, unfortunately. I want to tell everyone who's talking about drunkenness that I hope we left behind that fines are being cut off by smugglers etc. What can I tell you now? Since I did not know how to prove that I was not an elephant, I also came to such a point, which, a month ago, in the massage of sixty customs of the General Secretariat of Public Income on the issue of smuggling, asked them: "The regulation that we made in the act of legislative content cuts any fines from the Customs Code?" They answered me unanimously, no. What else can I do? Do you want me to bring them all sixty to sign any papers and share it here? They're not smuggling people. They are the directors and main executives involved in the customs offices of the General Secretariat of Public Income. With regard to the infamous, carabinatis, scandalous approaching, since it happened to have him here, I will introduce you to Mr Stefanos Eliou, a journalist specializing in Tax Law, who has been making the famous "Forensic Bulletin" for decades, who used all those who made tax declarations. I didn't know the man. When on Saturday the story of the "FLOOD TYPE" came out, I was all on Sunday looking for the subject. I was given his phone because he has revenue proposals and I called him. He told me too, like judges and Mrs Savvaidou and many others I had asked that it could be cut off, and he even told me that it has been done on several occasions. The next day, it has brought me back to 2010, when you were government, Mr Kutsuko - I have been here to show them to you, I do not have time to read them - the regulation that cuts exactly what we are cutting down by a percentage. The exact same things are cut off and the first time these were cut back in 1997.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u227	Mrs. Valvanie, you're talking twenty-four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u228	On Monday, when this possibility appeared, because on Sunday night I decided that nothing was going on, because there is no bill to make it pass, this man brought me to my office to show me what these arrangements are. As soon as I had learned about the legislative act, I begged him - the first time we met - and he sat in a office without any legal books and wrote to me the famous act of legislation. First time we've seen each other and talked for the first time the day before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u229	Who's one of four?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u230	He's the last gentleman. He's the nephew of the historian leftist Mr. Ilias. I'm not saying anything else. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs Valavani. If I understood correctly under the title of the bill, as you mentioned, "Edditional regulation on the viability of the "Greek Sugar Industry S.A." and the outstanding debts", did you add the "and other provisions?"? I want you to repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u232	I've got to repeat it to get him to the title. I also added the 'other provisions' on the basis of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u233	Well, thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u234	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u235	No, I'm so sorry, Mrs. Arabaji. Sit down. We've come to an agreement. The speaker's circle has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u236	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u237	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u238	There's nothing on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u239	The Minister referred personally to me. I want to explain to you in a minute what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u240	No, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u241	Why, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u242	Because I'm the judge of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u243	You will judge if I speak to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u244	Mrs. Arabaji, please, you don't have the floor. We have the following procedure from now on. We will give the floor to the rapporteurs for no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u245	Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u246	No, Mrs. Arabatzis. I'm guessing there was no personal matter. I'm judging it. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u247	Is this a new practice, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u248	Mrs. Arabatzis, Mrs. Valavan made references to too many names. No one has had any insulting, personal content, and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I do not think I should give you the floor on staff. Have a seat, please. We're on. We have the following procedure. We must give the floor to the rapporteurs of the parliamentary groups - to those who want it - for five minutes and to the parliamentary representatives - to those who want it - for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u249	First, the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Mitsotakis, I told you I'd give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u251	Madam President, for a minute I asked you to speak. The Minister addressed me personally, and I would like to reply to her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u252	No, it's over, Comrade. We're starting with Mr. Lapavitsa. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u253	Let me start with the news of the day. Today, ELSTAT's latest GDP figures came out. And what do they show for the first quarter of this year, that is, the quarter of our own governance over substance? GDP growth on an annual basis by 0.3%. So there's no recession. I say this because the machines of disinformation in both the press and the Chamber are telling us that we have a recession, because in relation to the last quarter of last year, the first quarter of this year did indeed have a slight decline. But the recession is not the case. The recession is measured on an annual basis and on an annual basis there is no recession. I say this very clearly, because it has been heard several times - what? - that the climate...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u254	So it's all brilliant in the real economy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u255	What yearly basis are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u256	Excuse me, Mr. Mitsotakis. I didn't hear you, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Lapavica, please don't answer the holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u258	There was a 0.3% GDP increase in the first quarter of this year on an annual basis. There's no recession. Why? Yes, there is uncertainty, there is "climate" in the economy, there are many such things but there are also measures and our government has not taken any real measures. The memorials should know that the recession is due to measures which you have taken against the coronary and which you have crushed the Greek economy. We have not taken measures, so there is no recession. How things will turn out no one knows. However, the first quarter does not have a recession. I say this because both the press and the media have heard it and it has been said that there is a recession. There is no recession for the moment in the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u259	For now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u260	Mr Mitsotakis, I am sure you have divining skills, which I do not have as an economist, but for now there is no recession in the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u261	You said so. Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u262	I'm on it. There have been many more in these two days by both the parties' rapporteurs and MPs. I will only comment on something I have heard from Mr. Stakoura. So what did Mr. Stavros say to us? He told us that there is a serious moral issue, because the systematicly inconsistent people who could pay and did not, are allegedly favoured. Who said that now? Mr. Staruras, who was Minister of Finance of the previous government. So I ask. Wasn't Mr. Stavros responsible for moving the mechanisms and making the people who could pay and didn't pay to pay, pay? Wasn't he responsible? Didn't he have to do it? Why didn't he? Is it not hypocrisy on the part of the former Deputy Minister of Finance? We, then, make these people pay and start paying. This has already happened with the first elements that I and the Minister of Finance have mentioned. He also mentioned some information on the country's cash situation, which is now known. It is difficult, very difficult, but it has been repeated by the Vice-Presidents. So I ask, and I ask, Mr Stakoura. What did we receive? It is true that a surplus was delivered in January, except in February and March, that this surplus would be converted, based on the estimates of Mr Staikora himself, into a terrible deficit. The planned deficit in March was a giant one. What did we do? We brought it together in a situation of extreme suffocation of financial and credit, created by our partners and friends in Europe. And I know that here we have many who have love great with Europe. In contrast to this situation, we packed it up. Of course, we have great difficulties. We never hid it. But we packed it, ladies and gentlemen. So this is a success of our government. Our government, the first left government to bother you, takes action. It takes measures which are small, such as those in the People's Markets Amendment, which, unlike the ones in question, are not. Mr Hatzidakis - who proved to be extremely problematic - improve the situation. And in the next few years, there will be long-term legislation to normalise the situation. It does, however, also take steps in the longer term, more seriously, such as the support of the Greek Sugar Industry, which has been discussed in detail. And as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we do not wish. Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Koutsoukos, was one of the best wishes of us. I'm sure everyone has soul pain for the Greek Sugar Industry and they want to stay alive. We have of course not heard any specific proposals. We have heard wishing for nothing but grievance that we are not doing well. But we do something. We did something critical and immediate. We keep her alive, keep her open. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. And I conclude with the question of productive reconstruction. Colleagues have wondered whether there could be productive reconstruction which would start with an act of legislation. Of course not. A legislative act is a legislative instrument. This instrument is not enough to change a process of decades, which I analysed and described yesterday. It is good to note, of course, that the present model of deindustrialisation has been imposed through a number of relevant instruments in this Chamber. In any case, however, our act of legislation is an example of new logic and thought for the model of productive reconstruction that we want, which gives priority to industrial production rather than services. The arrangements that we are called upon to vote on today are a first step in this long process. So I invite you all to support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Lapavica. Mr Constantine Hatzidakis has the floor and I ask him to be in time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u264	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to deal with the position of Mr Lafazani, who has once again remained in the 'hero' and 'levedice' line of government, which he thinks is making a corresponding negotiation these days. I hope that our Government will not prove to be 'the roaring mouse' because that is what I predict will happen at the end. Similarly, I do not want to dwell on the position of Mr Lapavitsa, who feels that his Government is implementing a policy of productive reconstruction and development. Because the country - we see the signs today from ELSTAT - dives into the well of recession. And these statements of artificial optimism will prove very soon to be boomerang for those who do them. I come to the amendments. For the first amendment, in relation to the extension of the deadline for submitting a statement of property and the proportionate payment of traffic charges in the event of the lifting of immobilisation, we are positive. He's got positive arrangements. And we have no reason to opposition to the opposition. I would like to remind you, however, of the old colleagues here in SYRIZA. It is a late amendment. In many cases, when previous governments were tabling late amendments here, there was a big issue in the Chamber. If we wanted to get back to you, we should criticise it and ask the Bureau not to accept it. But I note it so that both Members and Greek citizens know it. Secondly, for the other amendment to tax content, we consider the regulations on precarious requirements for the PPP agencies to be positive, the assignment of undeclared rents. In fact, we believe that, for unreserved rents, the regulation could also be more flexible, so that what is planned is carried out throughout the tax year. We consider the regulation on the rewarding of taxpayers and the discharge of parental associations to be positive. For farmers, I could read to you the arrangement to reach agreement on what the regulation actually includes. I do not know what interpretations of any services are, but subsidies in the European Union are considered as compensation, not as income for farmers. I myself, as a Member of the European Parliament, asked about reservations made by the cooperatives in the context of the payment of subsidies to farmers, and the European Commission replied that these reservations were illegal. I would therefore like to see this re-examine, because I fear that we have been victims, you, Minister, have fallen victim to mistaken interpretations, and in any case that was not the intention of the legislator. And, in any case, if you want to be friendly to farmers, as you are about to say, why do you not abolish that limit which you are presenting today? This thing I think is clean and crystalline. And I come to the third amendment from the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure and so on. For arrangements in relation to development law and the single economic area, we are positive. The same for regulation in the NSRP. If the Minister responsible was here, I would only tell him to hurry on the subject of the ESDP. Our NRP third in turn throughout the European Union, in the twenty-eight countries of the European Union and from the elections, and then, in these hundred days that have elapsed, I do not think that what you would expect has been done, given the economic situation in Greece. I wish I was wrong. Time to give credit but the signs so far are not very encouraging. And I'm ending the subject of popular markets. Ladies and gentlemen, often on television we see mayors calling producers and organising improvised producer markets, so that the product comes from the field directly into consumption. This was our pursuit last year with the People's Markets Act, where we decided to separate traders from producers, to separate producers from them, so that producers could benefit. To let the consumer know who the real producer is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute, Madam President. By pressurising then the House of Sellers' Boards decided to accept this division, but not to accept the placing by draw within the two sections. We have said that there will be criteria that will be set by the relevant Ministry. Then Mr Yakoumatos came under this law, and presented these criteria and to this day these criteria apply. Today comes the Ministry of Economy and distorts and criteria, it also distorts the discrepancy system. Why? So terrible is it that the consumer knows who the producer is and who the dealer is? Is that the first time left? Or is this the first time in the guild and pay-off of election stamps? That's it. And I would really like to go back to your left conscience, but also to your conscience as consumers, and to tell you that it really does not honor us not to dare to do the self-evident thing, namely to know the consumer in Athens, Thessaloniki, in other cities what he is going and shopping: is he really a producer or a dealer? That's what this is about. And that's how you come today and you're going down. Good for you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Nikolaos Michus has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Madam President. I heard Mr Hatzidakis before saying about the reservations made by the cooperatives when the subsidies were given. There, Mr. Hatzidakis, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u267	I'm sorry, Mr. Micho, let me make an announcement because there's a school and the kids will leave. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-seven students and students and five teachers attending from the 1st Municipal School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Micho, please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u268	Thank you. For reservations, therefore, from the cooperatives when the subsidies were given, do not forget, Mr Hatzidakis, that within the cooperatives there were the trade unions of PASOK and the trade unions of the New Democracy, who also took heavy misery. And as I brought an example yesterday to Mrs Valavani - Mr. Apostolos was missing - I mentioned, Mr. Apostolos, an example for Mistro - you know the village, huh? - which is on the mountain upstairs. There once they were receiving subsidies for two to three thousand acres of corn pork. Most of the money, of course, went to the boroughs of the cooperatives, you know it very well. So the roots of evil are very deep. I'm on it. So if you want to help the farmers, get the pension, take it to sixty-five years, abolish HISPI on earth - and, of course, we are against HICPIA - U.S.A. return to the public, abolish VAT on oil, reduce VAT on fertilisers and other types, machinery and machine financing and finance to young people who want to leave the large urban centres and go to work on earth but do not have the infrastructure. Thrace is full of land. The Turkish bank Ziraat Bank, which was signed here on a night by a right-wing government to come to Greece, gives loans to the Turks at very low interest rates - because we are not talking about the Pomacians, we are talking about the Turks - buying the land and preparing a new Kosovo. We can therefore also make decentralisation and help young people who really want to deal with the earth and make primary production stronger. For the amendments now, and in particular for Amendment No 137/8, we shall vote'represents'. With this amendment you are trying to give solutions to the issues of income taxation. You could, of course, also put it in a bill and not choose the procedure for the amendments and you could do more. For example, for the one-off payment of the tax from the initial 10% to 15%, we think it is a bit hypocritical to reduce 2%. The amendment by number 138.9 is to regulate issues relating to the functioning of the people's markets. And here we shall vote 'at present'. We disagree with the proposed amendment in paragraph 2 of Article 5 of the n. Date of birth: 4 April 2014. The wording 'Producers must be clearly placed by professionals and in the distribution of positions among producers', on the one hand, leaves room for misinterpretation, on the other hand, as regards placement, and on the other, on the other hand, making it impossible to issue new professional licences by operators under Article 8(2) of the Act. 4264. So our proposal with regard to Article 5 of the Treaty. 4264 is as follows: First, with the proposal of the municipal council concerned, approved by the regional council concerned, the maximum number of sellers' positions for all popular markets that use in their territorial jurisdiction are defined, which is dependent on the municipality's population on the last census. The existing number of licences and posts cannot be reduced. Second, operators are obliged to give producers throughout the country priority positions on their public markets of responsibility. Positions resulting from the establishment of new grassroots markets or from an extension of existing markets shall be broken down by analogy one by one between producers and professional sellers. The vacancies on the popular markets originating either from the non-renewal of a production licence or from the remission of professional sellers shall be covered by another licence holder, producer or professional respectively. Professional sellers who do not have any food of land and sea in any form or flowers shall be placed at the beginning or at the end of the popular markets in a manner that makes them quite distinct from others. Sellers of fishery products shall be placed separately from other producers or professional sellers. Paragraphs 3 and 4 remain the same. Provision should also be made for a provision listing the exterior fines imposed on sellers in the province for the non-renewal of their licences due to a failure to ensure tax information. Here we come and say that they're entering the popular stadiums for checks. They go to all Greeks, who try to be the most legitimate, who have cash machines, have documents, invoices, everything, they're "charging" them with heavy fines, and on the other hand, all the immigrants who have come, who are mostly stolen items, have no taxes, have no documents, pay nothing in the Greek state and the public are lost from there. Once they don't have these costs, they lower their prices to their products and so they only sell and the Greeks stay behind. You need to look at that, too. In Amendment No 154/12 on the extension of a time limit for reporting real estate data, a proportionate payment of traffic charges in the event of the lifting of immobilities of motor vehicles in 2015, and here we will be voting'residents', because with this amendment there will be a lot of people being facilitated. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you and apologies for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u269	Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not use all five minutes, but I will only speak for two minutes. We're starting with Sugar. It is really very simple what needs to be done in Sugar. I believe you are heading in the right direction, but you lack the very great experience. You are currently giving EUR 30 million, of which only EUR 900,000 goes to the workers. The rest of you will use them to buy fauna from foreign companies. You will buy sugar, i.e., which you will process and sell on the Greek market. The solution is very simple. Piraeus Bank currently has forty thousand tons committed. This money, if anything, must be used by the administration to buy the sugar from Piraeus. We don't have to buy sugar from strangers. From there on, the continuity of sugar is very simple. He wants producer groups, he wants a 12-month production by processing raw sugar. Minister, we have already discussed this and you have started this. Do this, of course, but know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u271	I'm sorry to interrupt you, but you're ignoring that we have contracts, which if we don't serve them, we won't have sugar.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Apostle, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u273	You are absolutely right, but the contracts are being renewed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u274	We'll fix them now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u275	Yeah, but you don't renew them in the way we're talking about. You have contracts that are now being renewed and you have refinanced from the outset in order to implement the contracts with the French and Polish companies that wish to close Sugar. To be brief and to end with this issue, I would like to say that sugar, in order to function, should fall costs. Costs fall in two simple ways. 12 months of operation and rationalisation of wages and expenses. The twelve-month operation is achieved, as is achieved in all non-beet-free sugar refineries in Europe, i.e. by the introduction and processing of raw sugar. The raw sugar you must try to bring it to the country. From there on, there is always the possibility of streamlining the cost of the factories. I will repeat once again where these 30 million will go. 30 million don't go to producers, they don't go to wages. The 30 million are used to pay the bean, the sugar purchased by the Greek Sugar Industry by the French, because it does not have a pound of its own. We cannot fix this. We can't produce sugar immediately, but what can we do? To release the quantities that Piraeus has at the moment ambushed. Instead of paying to the French and charging our trade balance, the same money can be started - immediately tomorrow - in Piraeus to get our own sugar from our own warehouses. If nothing else, we can support our trade balance. As far as the other amendments are concerned, we must now begin to describe the acts of legislation as multilingual drafts of legislation. Therefore, our parliamentary representative will be placed here. Because this set of amendments, which requires knowledge from all the committees and requires that we go into a process of looking at people's markets, sugar, tax bills, HISPIA, issues of municipalities and communities, all of which I imagine are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure in an act of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u277	In any case, as you read and compare the GDP of the quarter, there is a recession in the lives of the people's strata and this is not hidden at all. I now come to the amendments. As far as Amendment No 137 is concerned, we agree with this that the provisions on taxation of small and medium-sized farms promoted by the previous government are unfair and robbery. And you had disagreed, and we had disagreed. But they must be lifted immediately, that is what we are asking you to do. What do you fix? 55% do 27.5%. What's that? It's a compulsory tax advance for next year. You may reduce him, but it's still challenging and unfair. This is internal lending by poor people. We're asking you, too. If you change the tax system and take out the evidence you disagree with - why is it unacceptable as a method - then will you come back and pay those taxes in advance? Take it off completely. If that is the case, we are voting against it. As for the first paragraph where you tax subsidies up to EUR 12 000, it is of course the first time that subsidies have been taxed. The question is. Is subsidies an income? It's income support. So it's an income. And there is evidence that for Greece about 40% of agricultural income is from subsidies. Up to 12,000 subsidies take about 90% of the farm. Small and medium-sized. Do you know what that corresponds to? Approximately 30% of total subsidies. So 90% of farmers get 30% of subsidies and 10% of farmers get 70% of subsidies. It is what the JRC has been saying for years, that the large share of subsidies from the European Union goes to the big ones. But I would like to ask you this: will someone who gets a grant of 100, 200, 300 grand a year have a tax rate of 13%, the same as the one who gets 20,000? That's unfair. So there has to be a scale. I'm saying it's why all lame, blind to Saint Panteleimon. And most importantly, you may make tax-free of 12,000, but that does not mean that a poor man is exempted from the heavy taxes he has not to pay. Why? Because there's evidence. The benefit given is minimal and you know it. There's evidence. Remove the evidence. Correct the amendment and include the abolition of the supporting documents. Otherwise, we will vote'residents' as a whole on this amendment. In Amendment No 138/9, which is for lads, the federations of professionals and producers have not met the Minister from what they have said and I am transporting it. In paragraph 1, the extension of existing licences until 30 June must go until 31 October. A final solution must be found, because this is temporary, fragmentary and does not address the great problem with tax and insurance information, so that these people continue to work. We also need to address the problem in the province with the exterior fines imposed by the municipalities due to a failure to ensure. These fines must be deleted and not the ones under Article 2, that is, the big ones who have the money. As far as the separation of producers - professionals is concerned, the Minister may have said that it is spatial, but ambiguity remains the same as the agony of populace for new professional permits. As a whole, and in this amendment we say'represent', as in the last amendment, 154/12.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. I see Mr. Kammenos is not here from the Independent Greeks. That is why I move on to Mr Arvanitides George, the special speaker of PASOK, and immediately afterwards, Mr Mitsotakis, you follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u279	Madam President, with regard to the first article on the capital support of the Greek Sugar Industry, in order to ensure its viability, I would like to make a small comment. I predict that very soon, if we are serious, you must bring the House an operational viability plan for Sugar. Otherwise, we will come back here again and vote for another capital support for Sugar and, of course, with the Greek taxpayers' money, continuing to cover with wrong action, without programme and deficits, a process that we have been doing for years now. With regard to the second article, the regulation of the tax margins of citizens and businesses, Madam Minister, I hope all this good intention, which you have presented to this House, will be confirmed by all the advice of the institutions and people with whom you have spoken. Of course, if we want to talk about measurable policy, you have to bring the figures to the House and tell us how many are concerned and how many were the fines that have been deleted. In the end, in order to escape from generality too, we must go to measurable policy objectives. Then I think everyone will draw their conclusions. As far as the amendments, namely 137, are concerned with the amendment of the provisions of the Code on Income Tax - six cases I think we would really support them if it did not contain the main issue concerning farmers' tax exemptions of up to EUR 12 000. For the first time, there is an attempt to open the ferry to tax agricultural aid, with all the objections that have been heard here. The explanatory statement states that this is about twenty-five thousand farmers and that your target is 400 million euros. But, starting here today on the taxation of these agricultural subsidies, no one can guarantee anyone that this will not grow up and will then be much more farmers. This is the first time that the tax on agricultural subsidies has been paid for the first time today. As far as the other two amendments are concerned, the PASOK will support them, in particular the amendment with a general number 138. Finally, the latest resources of the NRP, the only energy stock that can feed the Greek economy, run them. I can't believe we have anything else. If this helps with the reorganization of the services, do it yesterday. For the people's markets - I have also been mayor - let us finally decide what we want to do. To baptize producers, traders, licenses, have lived on my side in every dimension, either through the region, because I come from Thessaloniki or from the position of mayor etc. Let's get serious. That's all we have to deal with. If this country cannot regulate the functioning of its people's markets, then I think the message we are sending to the citizens is that we cannot regulate absolutely nothing. Let's make serious decisions. As far as the third amendment is concerned, we support it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. Mr Mitsotakis has the floor. For three minutes we have said, Mr Mitsotakis, but you know there will be the appropriate tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. To clarify things, Minister and rapporteur, no one wishes the Greek Sugar Industry to close down. The questions raised in this Chamber concern the conditions under which this company, which is deeply injurious, will be sustainable. Unfortunately, I have not heard from you a plan that will take us from today's reality where we want to go. I heard a lot of things from the rapporteur from the river, who seemed to know much more about Sugar than the government itself about how to deal with this big problem. By the government, however, which legislates, we have heard nothing specific. So, our concern that tomorrow we could meet again...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u282	I guess you had your ears closed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Apostle, I will give you the floor. Please don't interfere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u284	I didn't hear it. What am I supposed to do? I was here all the time. Wait a minute, your Minister, Mr. Lafazanis, speaking from the Step of the House, said: “What are you waiting for from us? Should we have a reconstruction plan for Sugar?' I would reply to him: Why did he ask for elections with such great insistence in this Chamber? Because you didn't have a plan not only for Sugar, obviously you didn't even have a plan for the place. That's all about sugar. I now come to the question of taxing agricultural subsidies and subsidies. Madam Minister, in order not to be fooled, you have read Article 21 of the n. 4172.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u285	I got it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u286	You have read the explanatory statement. So let me read it to you. ‘Specially for the agricultural business, given the different rate of taxation of an individual agricultural enterprise, the revenues included in the concept of such income shall be specified in particular. This is exclusively the revenue from the production of agricultural, livestock, forestry, logging and fishery products." It is clear that the will of the legislator was not to tax aid and subsidies. You're the first one to adopt it. In any case, if we assume that there was an ambiguity in the law, you could clearly and unequivocally not tax them. And make it backwards1 So history will write that 'first time left', Mr Lapavitsa, means first time taxing agricultural subsidies from EUR 12,000 and upwards. That's the story, because that's the reality. And since I referred to you, just to make a brief reference to the joy you showed that the Greek economy was developed with just 0.3% in the first quarter. Of course, there has been a recession over the last four months. But let's get the annual figures. Bravo! That's a big success! What were we planning for growth, Mr Colleague, at the end of last year? We predicted 2.9% for the year? Where were the forecasts for the Greek economy revised? That's 0.5%. You must live in another country so that you do not understand what is happening to the real economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u287	Don't worry, Mr. Mitsotakis. It's good to have growth...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u288	You must live in another country. And because you told me - and some people have looked at me with a little smile - that some people have love with Europe, to make things clear, I have to tell you that I prefer having love with Europe rather than having love with the drachma! Between the two of them, I know exactly what I'm choosing. I should like to close, Madam President, so as not to misuse time: I want to denounce to the National Representation an extremely unpleasant event which took place today, day of student elections, at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, where well known - unknown cocooners, have again invaded the space and been beaten by members of the IGC. Four youngsters of the IDP are in the hospital. I imagine that the whole Chamber condemns these extreme events, but perhaps it is a scene from the future, because reinstatement to the former status of university asylum will once again give the right to all those who have been ravaged by universities for so many years, to continue this lousy game. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The order of what has been requested is as follows: First, Mr Koutsoukos, second, Mr Kammenos, Mr Petrakos, and then Mrs Liberaki. Mrs. Libertyraki, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u290	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u291	Madam President, I wanted to make a clarification about the rate of taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u292	No, Minister. In the end. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u293	The news of the day is or the joke of the day. You know that when comrade Breznyev ran with the representative of imperialism. I'll tell you another time. Mr. Lapavitsa, I'm done with ASAE. I'm not a professor. So make us the indicator of GDP growth, to see if it goes up or down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u294	ELSTAT got the results.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Lapavica, please. Mr. Leuchako, from the mountains, please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u296	The joke to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Leuchako, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u298	I'll tell you later, Stathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Kutsuko, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u300	We were, therefore, previously in the sub-committee on balance sheet and state account, where the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Liargova, presented us with the first quarter report and said that we returned to the actual pace, that we had an outflow of deposits, that there is insecurity. I don't think he's going to be in the government's underminers too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u301	You don't know where Mr. Liargova was.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u302	The State Budget Office, which we have set up here in the House, and whose data you have been using all the previous period, is now also a category of undermining? Let's recognize the reality. There is uncertainty and the country must leave the uncertainty. That is your duty. Don't tell us about the news of the day. On the matter of the bill. I asked the Minister to answer the simple questions. He was arrested with a tax evasion of 3,000,000, we put him additional taxes and surcharges of 3,400,000, and we give him 1,900,000. Are we erasing or aren't we erasing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u303	Who is this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u304	I brought a random example.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u305	Mrs. Valvanie, I'm sorry, but can you ask the Chair for the reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u306	Your services, Minister, have arrested a tax evasion case of 3,000,000 and have charged taxes. So this, along with fines and surcharges, reached 3,400,000. It was 3,000,000 times 35% of the 2005 rate, 120% of which is the increase, etc. So in this account, 3,498,000 the deletion is 1,908,000. Say yes or no, so people can understand. As far as the farmers are concerned, Mr Apostolos is next to you. So tell him to give you the European Commission's decision, which the Ministry has repeatedly used, to send it to the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue, and if he objects to it, to ask for an opinion from the Legal Affairs Council to tell you that the subsidies are duty-free. Because with the tax-free 12,000 euros, you're opening the ferry. That's what we told you. The other minister will do it 5,000 the other 12,000, 13,000 coke. The point is that subsidies are not taxed. That's what I told you. From that point on, you can't abandon the previous people who haven't solved it. You are now going to draw up the circular for the submission of tax declarations for the financial year 2015. These are very simple issues. The rest is from the wicked one. And unfortunately - and I am sorry - what I said to Mr Stathakis last night proved to be a reality, that he has no dialogue on the issue of popular markets. Let us not override parliamentary procedures in the minds of the ministers when they are in a meeting, both in plenary and in committees. With these comments, what we will vote on at first and on the articles of the act has been said by the rapporteur. Consequently, if the government wanted to deal with the issue of the scandals we denounced, it would put on a wall and certain conditions so as not to burn the greens together with the dry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much Mr Koutsouko, the PASOK Parliamentary Representative. Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, last night, at night, I dealt with the Communist Party of Greece, which, in his introduction, seemed to want the Greek Sugar Industry to close down. He congratulated them on that! I shall now deal a little with the New Democracy colleagues, particularly Mr Mitsotakis, who accused the government of lack of a plan. I would just like to remind the House and the honourable Member that the New Democracy Government has been ruling this country for over twenty-two years. We have received, with the latest rule of the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, and on your service and Mr. Hadjidakis and with Prime Minister Mr. Samaras, a Greek Sugar Industry which is in red by tens of millions. So your governments, a company which produced, made it an importer of sugar, and today you suggest that it is wrong to ask the government for the liquidator and for the assets to be cleared - as the liquidator has to do - to give the company at the government's request to save the company and to go - as I imagine you have seen in the suggestion of industrial leaders - to the plan 'Kantor', which was yours. You knew. So it comes to the implementation and information of our own government and you blame us for giving the money. And you're denouncing us. I mean, we shouldn't give it up. You want to close tomorrow too. Because if the 30 million were not given, and if Piraeus Bank did not reduce interest rates and did not, even with those guarantees it received - the mortgages, the cheques and the thousands of tonnes of sugar, its own loans, the Greek Sugar Industry would have been closed today. In this House, we should all conclude that we are here to help and not to pet anyone's ears. Finally, I should like to say this: I have been informed today - and I will investigate it - that on governments, which naturally did not involve the Independent Greeks, myself and SYRIZA, the workers in the Greek Sakhari industry were receiving sixteen wages. I also learned that many employees had their companions and relatives to be farmers, who sold sugar and cultivated with incompatibility, since they were workers in the Greek Sugar Industry. I have also learned that staff are over-excessive and that average wages are forbidden at the present time, with the memoranda and the crisis we have. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All this, as I said in my six speeches - it is my sixth speech today on the same subject - that government should put it down with paper and pencil. And all parties need to find solutions to develop the company, which is developed only by new sales and by checking the costs. No other way! All parties must therefore sit down and agree that the company and the jobs must be saved, because - as all Members have said - this is a strategic product. Greece cannot import sugar and export currency when it needs 300 000 tonnes and has become only fifty two and import the rest of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u309	You forgot to say that the JRC denounced you yesterday as a liar and ignorant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u310	Ms. Manolaku, please. Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Only Mr Petrakos has left the parliamentary representatives, who has asked for the floor. I would ask Mr Voutsi to present a legislative improvement, for which he informed me. Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u311	Legislative improvements are in the People's Markets Amendment and are as follows: ‘In paragraph 2(a) of the amendment, the words ‘the Mayors’ shall be replaced by ‘the operators’. In paragraph 6, the words ‘Each committee shall be composed of the Regional Administrator or the Vice-President appointed by him as Chairman, by a Deputy Regional Adviser’, with the words ‘Each committee shall be composed of the Regional Administrator or the Deputy Regional Adviser appointed by him or appointed Regional Adviser as Chairman’. In paragraph 7 in the case of (c) of subparagraph (b), the word ‘extension’ shall be replaced by the word ‘theorem’. I'm sorry to present it while I wasn't attending the debate, but Mr. Stathakis is on a flight and we're both signing it. That's why I came to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u312	Can you repeat the last one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u313	in paragraph 7, in case (c) of subparagraph (b) the word ‘extension’ shall be replaced by the word ‘theorem’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u314	I would ask that this be distributed to all Members and Members of Parliament, because they have already shared the bill we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u315	Madam President, I am tabling this for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Petrakos has the floor for three minutes strictly. Mr. Petrako, please make it easier for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Madam President. The first thing I would like to stress is the amendment to the People's Markets, Madam President. On the basis of the assurance of the Secretary-General for Trade, there will be an integrated arrangement, because there are other issues that, in the absence of the Minister, cannot be met today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of the New Democracy who had a plan for the Greek Sugar Industry - in their opinion, they had a plan - led it to closure. We are keeping her alive in this process and we will immediately proceed to a comprehensive production reconstruction plan. To finish the corn here. Secondly, what history will write is that no subsidy of up to EUR 12 000 is taxed, as is any compensation. That'll write. Thirdly, the gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, who led the Greek economy to a recession of over 27% - in a recession of over 27%! - in five years, it's too much to want to be an honor for the three-month government! People also have minds and judgment and memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr. Petrakos. We will give the floor now to Mr. Apostleu for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u319	I address my dear colleagues in the New Democracy. For the last three - four days, we have been constantly putting forward specific proposals with numbers, presenting our agony and planning to deal with the Sugar issue - I told you that I have been following the sugar issues for years - and you are coming now that we are closing the debate and saying to us, 'You have nothing'. We have not heard from you a single phrase about tomorrow in Sugar, only your so-called agony, addressing the customs producers, that "we really want the Sugar Industry to work." You have nothing left but here to say, if you want to have any effect, that you too agree with the intervention we are taking. Because this intervention is, I would say, the only move to keep the industry open. We don't have any other way. Do you think I didn't know, as to the issues of importing sugar, that concrete money went there? How would we cover the needs? The Sugar Industry has specific contracts. I wish we could reach the levels we were a few years ago, where we were actually close to meeting our country's needs. We have a plan. We told you about the connection, the connection and the integrated management. I would also like to give you the regulation in force in Finland. All of EUR 45 tonne is 28, when the equivalent of EUR 27 tonne is EUR 28 tonne in the other competitive countries of Europe. So, we're approaching this part to be competitive. We also told you that there is a particular need to cultivate over 100 thousand acres, slowly beginning. Therefore, this would reduce costs. We told you about interventions in relation to the cost of production in the energy sector, from twenty-five to five, and how we're going to go. So, what more did you guys want? When all we do is of course preconditions that we have to serve along the way. Do you think tomorrow we'll press the button? I've worked in the private sector for so many years. I do not know whether all these activities have become viable and, above all, profitable since the first year. There's no other way out. And put pressure on your side of Piraeus Bank, because I told you about it and I repeat it for him the Gordian bond that exists. The Greek Sugar Industry will either be taken by Piraeus Bank or by the clearer. It's no different. This thing is causing great problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u320	You're the shareholders! You're the government, the Greek state!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u321	We tell you what the proposals are. We as shareholders will serve this, so we will tell you. You judge the vote, you also decide and say 'yes' to this regulation, so that you can tell the world and the customs producers 'we apologise to you for all that we have loaded you over so many years, but we have understood that there is no other way out.' As far as the second part, particularly on taxation, is concerned, ask the part of you dealing with taxation, which made a statement saying "it is not right for the legislative intervention of the SYRIZA, we would be doing other legislative intervention". I tell you for the simple reason that for two to three years as opposition MPs, we were telling you to look at this issue. The directive says that there are no reservations and not that they are not taxed. So because we had this anxiety, we told you. You didn't have the power to do it. So you come with your 2014 revenue arrangement and leave it open. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and For the rest, all revenues are 26%. That was the big problem that actually wanted legislation. In order for farmers to understand it, I will say it quite simply. They would pay 13% plus 55% for the total revenue. We are coming and saying that the EUR 12 000 and we are taking them out of this process, which, for the EUR 12 000, is translated into EUR 1.560 from this discharge. Add 27% of the advance, which is estimated, we are approaching around EUR 2 000 for every farmer who is around EUR 12 000. Towards the bottom, of course, the amount is reduced. This is our intervention, which is taking place in an hour when you know that the area is suffering, how much more than the robbery tax you have imposed on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Valavani has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u323	I just wanted to make a clarification on the issue of agricultural income so that you could understand why the General Secretariat for Public Revenue did not answer the questions. I read to you: "Athens, November 28, 1997. Ministry of Finance, Directorate General for Taxation, Directorate for Income Taxation. Subject: Instructions and clarifications for the procedure for determining net agricultural income by means of the objective method provided for in Article 42 of the Treaty. Regulation (EC) No 2238/94.’ This has been the case until recently, which says: "The method of calculating net agricultural income: The method of calculating net agricultural income is as follows. Total gross income shall be deducted from the cost of agricultural holdings. The gross amount shall be included in the balance sheet.’ So you're deducting the costs and the rest are taxed. I'm not reading the rest. ‘Receipts from the disposal of all agricultural products to third parties, subsidies and production allowances’. All these years with the objective method from the first euro, take the cost off...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u324	You're not accurate! There's a misunderstanding, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u325	What can I tell you? What's the misunderstanding? Subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u326	Okay. Mr. Davakis, please. We thank the Minister for the clarification he has given. I'm judging that it was necessary, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: 'Repeal of 27 March 2015 of the Act of Legislative Content 'An urgent regulation on the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A.' and of the due debts' (A'35) and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u329	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u334	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content of 27 March 2015 ‘Additional regulation on the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A.’ and dues’ (A'35) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u335	I would like to speak on a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u336	Here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u337	I wanted to say that, as we understand Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Rule 113(2), bills concerning ratification of a legislative act contain an article which condemns this act, which means that we do not understand why they are coming in. It's more to look for psychological reasons than a regular bill. In fact, it is an act of executive power which we all dominate together, superb, that is, in its entirety. Therefore, if you proceed to an article vote, we will not participate, because we believe that the procedure is not right at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u338	Excuse me. He has an article 1. An article. That's what we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u339	But now we're entering the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u341	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u347	Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number of 137 and a special number 8, as amended by the Minister? I would remind you that it is a ministerial amendment. It concerns the modification of the provisions of the Code of Income Tax, exemption from HNVIA, property rights belonging to the Hellenic Tourism Organization. The third paragraph of this paragraph states ‘an amount of confiscations in the hands of credit institutions to cover the first instalment of the arrangement’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u355	The amendment with a general number 137 and a special 8 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister and incorporated in the bill as the same articles. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 138 and a special number 9, as amended by the Minister? I would remind you that it concerns the regulation of issues relating to the functioning of the people's markets and that there is also the legislative improvement presented by Mr Voutsis earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u361	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u362	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 138 and a special 9 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 154 and a special number 12 as it stands? I would remind you that this amendment concerns tax matters which Mrs Valavani has analysed today in a very detailed way. It concerns the extension of a time limit for reporting real estate data, a proportionate payment of traffic charges in the event of the lifting of immovable property of vehicles in 2015 and uncertified tax and non-regulated debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u366	Here you go. We simply say 'yes' in paragraph 2 as regards the proportionate payment of traffic charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u369	Therefore, Amendment No 154 and special 12 were accepted as it is by a majority - and far greater than the others - and is part of the bill as the same articles. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u370	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u371	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content of 27 March 2015 ‘Additional regulation on the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A.’ and dues’ (A'35) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in the majority of articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u372	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u379	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content of 27 March 2015 ‘Credited regulation on the viability of the Greek Sugar Industry S.A.’ and dues’ (A'35) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u380	Before the meeting, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that today at 6 p.m. the hour, in this Chamber, the Greek Parliament will welcome the victims of the Holocausts of Hiroshima and Nagasaki who are in the 'Peace of Peace'. I think we should all be present and all present in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "EHRISTEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, nine students from the 'ERASMUS' programme. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-13-S1-commons.u381	With the consent of the House at 17.20' the sitting is closed tomorrow, Thursday 14 May 2015 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of the House, an announcement of petitions and a debate on topical and urgent questions.
