ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour of announcing to the House the current report on Friday 24 April 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 112/20-4-2015 topical question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotas Dritsel to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the need to speed up the process of compensation for restoring the livestock of farmers in the country. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 111/20-4-2015 topical question by MP B' Athens, Neo Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Ministers of State and Foreign Affairs, on the statements by the Minister of National Defence on ‘contribution to the Aegean’. 3. The question by No. 107/20-4-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy regarding the exploitation of our national wealth and energy policy. 4. The question under number 118/20-4-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on measures to implement the tacosy in the country's olive groves in time. 5. The question under number 100/154-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the energy policy of the country. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 114/20-4-2015 topical question by the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the need to restore the damage caused to agricultural crops by the severe weather phenomena in the regions of Lower Nerokoti and the Municipality of Doxatos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 119/20-4-2015 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the planned installation of two private plants for the production of electricity, with biomass burning, in the area of the Municipal Community of Royals of the Municipality of Thermi of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. 3. The Question by Mr Nicholas Moraiti, Member of Parliament, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nicholas Moraiti, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the OPECE Action Plan. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 105/17-2-2015 of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement MP, Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the review of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Tsirkas, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u2	The Members of Parliament, and so on. Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Ilias Ioannides, Alexandra Tsanakas, submitted to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction a report on the voluntary transfer to the re-established municipal police. MEP Evangelos Diamantopoulos submitted to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy a report on "Problems in the operation of the rock irrigation network". Congressman Andreas Michaelides filed a report to the Minister of Health on the conversion of the Chios Hospital's newspapers into mixed and prepared newspapers. Congressman Sia Anagnostopoulou submitted to the Minister of Finance a report on the value of land in the mountainous local communities of the municipality of Rios Municipality of Patras. In particular, it stresses the enormous problems arising from the tactics of the DU Patras to impose unacceptablely high prices of land on the mountainous agri-food communities of the Municipal Unit of Rio, not taking into account the current land prices. A reference has been filed to the Minister of Health by SYRIZA's MP Mr. Sia Anagnostopoulou on the need for the General Hospital of Kalavryton as an autonomous legal person governed by public law (NDFS). To the main ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a report has been submitted by MP Chios of the New Democracy Mr.Noti Metarakis on the issue of granting the Municipality of Chios funding to repair damage due to the severe weather phenomena from which the island was affected in the recent past. A petition has been filed to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy by MP Arta of the New Republic, George Stylion, on illegal fishing, which is a scourge for the Gulf. A petition has been submitted to the Minister of Health by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to find an immediate solution to the urgent problems of the Paros-Anparos Health Centre. To the main ministers for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Social Security and Social Solidarity, a reference has been filed by the New Democracy MP, George Stylianon, on the problems faced by vocational training centres due to the high delay in their payments by the Ministry of Labour in programmes that have been carried out and are part of the NSR. To the Minister of Health, Mr Stavros Tassos, MEP Mr. Larissa, Mr. George Lambroulis and Mr. Heracleou, Mr. Emmanouil Syncurakis of the Communist Party of Greece have submitted a report on the immediate needs for the operation of the Regional Iatrician Lutres, calling for measures to be taken to resolve the problems facing them. To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, to the Ministry of Health and Social Security and to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis, has submitted a report on the control of businesses with retail tobacco products. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a report has been submitted by the MP of Heraklion, PASOK, Vassilios Kegeroglou, on the subject of workers at the CBELs, who are requesting an immediate reintroduction of collective bargaining and collective labour agreements, and the immediate abolition of the BC. 94/2014 on redundancies in the CBCs and on the withdrawal of an act of Ministerial Council 6/2012 on long-term or pre-service exploration. A report has been submitted to the Minister of Health by SYRIZA's MPs and so on. Olga Gerovasili and Vasilis Tsirkas on the following letter from the head of the Vourgarelli Health Centre, which mentions that it cannot function properly either in the morning hours or in the on-calls due to the many problems that exist and concern, inter alia, the staffing and logistics of the Vourgarelli Health Centre. To the main ministers for Finance and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a petition has been filed by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA Mr Michael Kritsotakis on the charges for the rental of vehicles, which highlights the financial impossibility of car rental companies to meet operating costs and in general the costs that endogenous and exogenous factors shape their existence. It is also mentioned that the Panhellenic Federation of Rented Cars should not be governed by the rules of the IX passenger cars. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion a report has been filed by MP Evros of SYRIZA, Dimitrios Rizzo, on the subject of listing a blood group in each athlete's newspaper. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a reference has been filed by MP Rethymnon of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Kefaloniann on the subject of a letter from the Association of Cretans Santorini "TO ARCADI", on the interruption of subsidised ferry routes connecting the islands of Cyclades with Crete. To the main ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Administrative Reconstruction a report has been submitted by the New Democracy MP Mario Salma on disasters in maritime infrastructure. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a report has been submitted by MP Lesvos, Stavros Tassos, MP II Piraeus Mr Diamantos Manolakos, MP Iraklios Emmanouli Synthrakis of the Communist Party of Greece on the subject: "A request that measures be taken to resolve the problems facing the Mytilini Customs." To the Minister of National Defence, he has submitted a report to the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, who refers to a member of the Armed Forces Mr Koutroufin Evangelos, requesting the proper treatment of the issue of the graduation of the Long-Security Volunteers who have been employing them for decades, on the basis of a proposed amendment from the sectoral collective body. To the Minister of Finance, PASOK MEP Mr Kegeroglou has submitted a report on overturns and commitments. Reference is made to debt expenditure in the financial year 2015, as well as to ongoing contracts that are still under way today, and had been signed for the financial year 2014. These are the obligations of the municipality which must be met, and in conjunction with the fact that such a problem is almost all municipalities in the country, and it is necessary to find an appropriate solution for the proper functioning of the municipalities and to extend the date on which the overturns are posted at least by 15-4-2015. It is about the Municipality of Vianno. To the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Member of the Greek Independents, has submitted a report and is requested to receive a written reply from the Minister of Interior on why he has not received an answer as to whether his transfer has been signed - it concerns a citizen - and to carry out a health check in the municipal garages of the Municipalities of Tavros, Peristeri, Piraeus, Agia Paraskevi, Agia Paraskevi, Ano Liosi, Acharnon, Aspropyrgos, Patras, Amaliadas, Erymanthos, Agrinio, Thessaloniki, Ioannina and Chania. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, the MP of the Greek Independents, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has reported on the need for greater police awareness. A report has been submitted to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy by MP Ioannina of SYRIZA Christos Mandas on the education of the rural world for the rational use of agricultural medicines. A report has been submitted to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction to the SYRIZA Deputy Evros Dimitrios Rizzo requesting the strengthening of the Garden Police Department (ATT) to resolve the issue of the rapid increase in transit to and from Turkey from the border crossing of the Police Department (ATT) Gardens. To the Minister of Health and Social Security, the Member of Parliament, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis, has submitted a report to the Minister of Health and Social Security on the subject: "Lack of ambulance crews in the EKAB Thera". To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, the Member of Parliament, Notis Mmatakis, has reported on the subject: "Standards and problems of an educational nature at the Academy of Marine Wines". A petition has been submitted to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the subject: "Protest by former Municipal Police officials for the unjustified abolition, without evaluation, of the Municipal Police Service and its appeal for the option to be granted to her and her colleagues, or to return to the previous Municipal Police Office, where they offered until recently, or to remain after training in the service of the Greek Police. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, MP Vassilios Kegeroglou has submitted the following statement: The Administration of the Taxi Iraklio Association in this memorandum wants to express indignation and to highlight problems and situations that have arisen in the last four years of the Governments of the Memorandum and the legislation that have been applied, which tend to the complete destruction of the professional automobile. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction a petition has been filed by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the subject: ‘Subjects and questions to points of the draft law on the restoration of injustices of the Ministry of Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance’, which, in his opinion, need further clarifications. To the Minister of National Defence, MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has filed a report on the insurance of the military, such as the restoration of an injustice in 1990-1992, a transitional period for the ranks of 1993-1995, incentives, voluntary exit of soldiers who complete twenty-five years of actual service. To the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health the MPs Nektarios Santorinios, Evangelia Ammanatidos, Eleni Aylonitou, Evangelia Vayonaki, Dimitris Gakis, Efi Georgopoulos - Saltaris, Anastasia Garas, Ioannis Dedes, Ioadi, Dimitrios Dimitris Dimitriadis - Amanatidis, Ioannitas Kavadias, Ilias Kamatos, Ioannis Kara Yusuf, Evangelia Kakostas, Apostolos Karastas, Fas Karas Karasarlidos, Panagiotas Kombolis - Amanatidis, Theophanis Koubes, Michalis Kyrikas Kyrikanos, Evannis Kyrikoudis, Evannis Kyrikoulakis, Kyrikoudis Kyrikanosiakoulakis, Micopoulos, Ioannis Evannis Evanitsakis, Iovanitsakis, Evannis Kytzistaniadisiadisiakoulakis, Eftakis, Eftissssssssssssilisilisilisilisilisilisilisiadis, Istanis, Istanis, Eftis, Eftis, Evannis Eftis, Evannis Evannis Evannis Evannis Fizakisstaniadisiadisiadisiadisiadisiadisiadisiadis, Istanis, Istaniadis Evannis Vasilisiosiosiosiosticakis, Istantsis, Istantsis, Istantsis, Istantsis, Istaniadis Palakisstaniasiosiosiosilisilisssionis, Istanis, Istanis, Istaniadis P. There is talk of a timely issue, how to operate and how to fail to adopt timely disability certification decisions by CSR committees. It is the primary bureaucratic cause of the topic referred to as theme, which poses significant economic and social problems in the lives of individuals and their families. The Minister for the Economy of Maritime and Tourism Infrastructure has submitted a report to the Minister of Finance, Constantine Tasoulas, on the upgrading of the airport of Ioannina and its equipment with the appropriate approach instruments. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, and to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, MP Odysseus Konstantinopoulos has submitted a report on the subject: "Proclamation - protest by the Panarcadian group towards "AHAIKI SA". It concerns unacceptable events that took place before, during and after the end of the football match held on 22-3-2015 at the National Stadium of Lower Achaia between the Panarcadiki Group and the “Achaikis S.A.”. To the Minister of National Defence, a report has been submitted by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the subject: "Extremities of the issue concerning those who come from productive schools of Permanent Officers, Liberty Officers and Air Force, who are unjustly, in relation to the officers of the Hellenic Navy, as regards the timing of their promotion". To the Minister of National Defence, a report has been submitted by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on a letter from Mr Kostas Miratikas on whether Naxos is included as an area in the permit days off. To the Minister of National Defence, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, and to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Member Nikolaos Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has reported on a letter from Mr Athanasios Tsakalou on a matter of strong protest and therefore an indirect request for the restoration of his dignity, which, in his judgment, has been raised as a result of a complaint about the purchase of materials. A reference to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs has been filed by MP Sia Anagnostopoulou on the subject: "Multimediate private teachers and their appointment to public education". The Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism has submitted a report to the Member of Parliament, Metarakis, and proposes to issue stamps in honor of the national benefactors. To the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Internal and Administrative Reconstruction have submitted reports to the MPs Nikos Karathanasopoulos and Nikos Moraitis on the subject: ‘Patient Mayor of Patres requesting the grant of the State budget of EUR 176 to the employees of the Municipality of Patras, the municipality agencies and the DEEAP’. To the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Finance, a report has been submitted by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the reductions in the incomes of staff from 2010 to today and his request to be aware of the intentions of the political leadership on the subject. To the Minister of Finance and the Minister of National Defence, a report has been submitted by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, requesting that they remain in the Armed Forces, if they so wish, by the age of at least fifty-eight years, who joined the AACC after 1980, so that they do not have to be pensioners from the age of fifty, fifty-two. To the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction has submitted a report to the Member Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the subject "Invitation to restore the working rights of former public workers", requesting their reinstatement to the active service. To the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, a report has been submitted by MP Vassilios Kegeroglou on "Guaranteeed social income and three axes, financial support, provision of services and goods, reintegration". To the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, a report has been submitted by MP Despira Charalapidou on the question of workers at the availability of the operation "Annual Greek Steel Company S.A.", which concerns the payment of an allowance. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction he has submitted a report to the Member of Parliament, Mr Leuteris Augerakis, on the subject of a memorandum from the Panhellenic Federation of Five Year Obligations and Contracting Firefighters. Refers to proposals for the use of five-year obligation fire extinguishers and conventional fire extinguishers. It is attempting to restore injustice and a work hostage, which has continued to occur for many years against firefighters of five years of obligation and contractors. To the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, a report has been submitted by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the need for notification of the timing of the start of arrangements in OEC loans. To the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion, a report has been submitted by MP Vassilis Kegeroglou on a letter from the Mayor of Ierapetra to the Minister of Education on the operation of a TEI in Ierapetra. To the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report on the reintegration of workers and the recruitment of undetermined prior notices of the AACC. To the Minister of Labour and Social Security, Social Solidarity MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has reported on a request from Mr Nikolaos Kanakis to restore existing injustices in pension matters. To the Ministers for Health, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, MPs Dimitrios (Meem) Dimitriadis, Eleni Aylonitou, Fotini Vakis, Efstathios Giannakides, Konstantinos Dermitakis, Ioaniti, Hussein Zeibek, Maria Therleritis, Catherine Iglezis, Evangelikis (Egyptia) Karasarlidos, Vassilios Katsavrous, Chrysula Katsavripoulou, Charula Kafantakis, Triantafyllos Mitafidis, Konstantinos Barkas, Geras Balaurus, Georgios Ursouzidis, Athanasios Petritis, Athanasios Sevastakis, Konstantinos Kostakis, Panstantinos Tsiakoulakis, Alikoulisiakoulakis, Akoulisiasiasilios, Akoulisilios Kosiakosilios, Akoulistanisoulisiakosiakosiakosiasiasilios, Akou, Akoulis, Akoulisias Efakis (Athanas), Akoulisilios, Akoulisiakosiakosiakosiakos Kostaniakosoulisiakosiakosiakosiasiasiasiasiakosiakosiakos, Akoulis, Akoulis, Akoulisiakosiasiasiasiasiasias, Akoulis, Akoulisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasias, Akoulis, Akoulisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasias, Akoulisias, Akou, Akou, Akou, Akou, Akoulis, Akoulisiasiasiasiasiasiasias To the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, MP Notis Mitatakis has submitted a report in which he refers in a letter stating that a particular company is complaining of the lack of competition in Chios in the field of inert materials and of a monopolistic situation in the field of inert materials in Chios. To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou has submitted a report on the closed schools of EASA for two years, which has caused suffocation in the Police Office, as the needs are now enormous, when the gaps created by the retirement of police are growing and growing. To the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report on a document from Ms. Letas Vassilopoulos as spokesman for the Press and Public Relations of the Committee on the Disabled Chronic Diseases, on requests - proposals to combat unemployment in the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as the chronicly suffering with a disability rate of less than 67%. To the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report on the unequal treatment of women workers in the "Help at Home" programme in the private and public sectors. To the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has submitted a report on the recognition of a private sector service in overseers' crises. Members Olga Gerovasili and Vassilis Tsirkas have submitted a report on intervention for the proper functioning of the Agnadon Health Centre. It states that in recent years the supply of consumables - medicines, cleaners, fuel - has been dramatically reduced, and since 1 May 2015 the Agnadon Health Centre will only employ a rural doctor. To the Minister of Health, Congressman Nottis Metarakis has submitted a report on meeting the medical needs of workers, the minimum wages. It refers to the problem of the extracts of doctors to serve rural Amani hospitals, since Amani is the most remote area from the Hospital of Chios. To the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister of Vassilios Kegeroglou has submitted a report requesting the reintroduction of arrangements for the payment of reduced traffic charges, so that vehicle owners can reinitiate their cars at a lower cost of use and the State can benefit from the revenue from the payment of such charges. A petition has been filed to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Justice by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos with regard to the application of a judicial decision to recruit and appoint those officials who have not been appointed despite the successful completion of the relevant selection process through ASP. To the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity and to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction has submitted a report to the MP Nikolaos Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the need for a candidate for a job in TEDO SA. by not indicating his qualifications on the basis of an application for an APA. To the Finance, Culture, Education and Religion Ministers, MP Socrates Famelos has submitted a report on the subject: "Food fines for parents and guardians' associations", requesting the deletion of all fines for parents and guardians arising from the non-paid or unpaid tax obligations of the clubs. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, a report has been submitted by MP Charula Kafantari on the subject: "Annulment of Protocol No 52018/14-6/2013 approving the installation of construction works at Maroussi - New Lesvos from "Wind - Greece Communications AEBE" on the roads Killer of the Municipality of Amarousi, as well as the approval of an amendment thereto." To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, a report has been submitted by MP Maria Antonio on funding the implementation of civil protection measures to the Municipality of Nestorio in anti-missile period 2015. To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the Member of Parliament, Metarakis, has submitted a report on the subject: "Fleet port connection with Piraeus and the rest of the island country of Northeastern Aegean". To the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity has submitted a report to the MP Nikolaos Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on his proposal to the draft law "Democratisation of Administration - Combating bureaucracy and Electronic Governance - Restoration of Jurisdiction and other provisions". To the Minister of Health and Social Security, a report has been submitted by MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos on the subject: "Procedure for malfunctioning an insurance fund at the expense of an insured person". To the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Parliamentary Vassilis Kegeroglou has reported on the subject: "A request for credit for the flooding protection of the Municipality of Malevizios".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of petitions has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first under number 115/20-4-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health, on the timetable for the abolition of the Anonymous Hospital Remuneration Systems Company (ESAAN SA).), it will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment and deleted. We are now entering the second with number 109/20-4-2015, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos-Adoni Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the announcement of medical treatment and hospitalization to uninsured persons already in place with the establishment of the PEDY. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very pleased, Minister, that we are finally meeting in this House and I am glad that you are the ones to answer me, because since my previous term of office, I know that you are a man with good faith and you are well aware of the issues, and I hope that we will have a real dialogue, constructive for the citizens, whether we can achieve something of interest. I do not hide from you that I think you could be, and you should be the principal head of the ministry, but these are issues for the Prime Minister. I read the statements yesterday - or today - at the Athenian News Agency, in which you say that we have two and a half to three million uninsured people who have been excluded from the National Health System. For the truth, Minister, let me say that this was until June 3, 2014. I imagine you are well aware that the previous government has established three main areas: The first section was the creation of the EMCDDA to which to Article 1 automatic access is granted to all, regardless of insurance, to primary health care. From the information I have gathered and will submit to my dentology from the first day of operation of the EMS until today, there have been two hundred thousand uninsured fellow citizens for free in primary health care. The second act was the adoption of the joint ministerial decision by me and Mr Christos Stakouras on 3 June 2014. Mr President, I read: 'Uncertain Greek citizens or citizens of Greek origin or nationals of Member States of the European Union or nationals of third countries who lack the conditions for issuing an uncertain booklet, etc.'. Insurers who have lost their insurance capacity due to liabilities in the insurance funds concerned, etc. So all our uninsured fellow citizens before 3 June 2014 had access to primary school with the PEDY and after 3 June have access - and I will testify per hospital what has been done and how many thousands have been served since 3 June and after hospitals - in hospital care, secondary and tertiary. Then, my successor, Mr. Makis Vorides, signed a new joint ministerial decision - which we had prepared for my own service and proceeded with - to which full access by the unsafes through private pharmaceuticals to medicines is granted. Today, many do not know that if you are uninsured only with your AMKA, the electronic recipe you have, you are charged with participating in the medical expenses as if you were insured, nor with one minute of the euro. As much as the insured person pays, exactly as the uninsured person pays. So where are our excluded fellow citizens? All we hadn't given was access to diagnostic tests in hospitals. The reason we hadn't done it was because we still had the health voucher that we had done, that is, we had the diagnostic tests, but through the health voucher, through the ESS programme, and we had just decided that health voucher would end up adding it, but not losing that money. The only thing that exists and I hear you want to dismantle was the three-member committees in hospitals, which entered for transparency purposes, and I expect to hear what you say about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Colleague, because you have a denology...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u7	I'm closing right now, Mr. President. I just want to ask the crucial question. But I read that what you want to do is, he says, increase the income criterion from EUR 6 000 to EUR 12 000. But we completely abolished the income criterion. The income criterion refers to a joint Ministerial Decision of 2006 on the wonder booklet. Our decisions on access are for all uninsured, independently of the income criterion. So if you put this criterion at 12 000 euros, as I read, people who today have access to the system will lose access from your own decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your answer to the prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The issue raised by my colleague is a very serious social problem, which has arisen in the years of the crisis and the monumental management of this crisis, the problem, namely, of the de-insurance of the population. In my view, it is the second most serious social problem in the country after unemployment. So the previous government with a criminal - let me depreciate this problem for three years without facing this explosive health poverty problem, which involved a very large percentage of 25% to 30% of the Greek population. Intervention by international humanitarian organizations has had to be carried out. There has also been a climate of outcry from the scientific community with an extensive international literature and, above all, there has been a movement of social solidarity with an excellent contribution from volunteers to social medicine and pharmacies throughout the country. Political intervention by the opposition parties and, in particular, the Officerial Response had to be made. I would remind you of a timely question from SYRIZA that was discussed in the name of the colleague, who raised the problem. The World Health Organization has come to make it a condition for a government reform agenda. And, of course, the troika itself, last June, came to put it as a prerequisite for disbursement of the June instalments. With a great deal of delay, therefore, the government has indeed laid down a regulatory framework. It made two joint ministerial decisions, which, in our view, remained on paper very much. They've only met them. There has never been a serious information campaign for the insecure population. There have been reports of valid newspapers - I am referring to the NEWs - in the autumn that in research carried out in seven major hospitals they have found that the administrative agencies of the hospitals did not even know these directives and arrangements of common ministerial decisions. And the testimonies we had from the daily lives of public hospitals and mainly from our contact with patients and social hospitals were that the exclusion of uninsured people continued to exist. We have therefore set up a committee, a working group at the Ministry, which, Minister, points out seventeen comments - I will give you a detailed account of the committee - of four co-legislative ministries, from service providers, who point out that there was an institutional blockade and de facto blockade, i.e., in practice, despite the institutional predictions of thousands of uninsured people. And he makes seventeen remarks. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] On the basis of this finding, we intend to put in public these days a new joint ministerial decision, which will significantly improve the arrangements of the previous one. It will obviously abolish the three-member committees. We consider it unacceptable that an economic limit should be set for the treatment of uninsured human beings. In other words, we say that accurate uninsured patients will not be treated in the system. These were the global coverage arrangements for the population you have made. So the problem remained. The use of the option for electronic prescribing was minimal. On average it was around five million euros a month, when the average public pharmaceutical expenditure was about 40 million, while the uninsured population was 25% of the population. So you realise that a regulation has been made to see that we are dealing with the problem, but in practice we are not dealing with it. Mostly, I think the reason was that the government did not want to increase the financial cost of this regulation, which obviously needs to be taken into account and ensured.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u12	Minister, we've got secondarys.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u13	I shall refer to the details of this regulation that we are preparing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Mr. Georgiadis, before your dentistry, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Chamber and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and two educational escorts from the 3rd Elementary School of Nea Ionia. Our dear children, welcome and welcome. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u15	Minister, first I would like to begin with the reforms of the World Health Organisation, since you mentioned them. You know, for this programme of reforms for the World Health Organisation - and I am glad that yesterday I was able to read an interview by Mr Bascozos, the Secretary-General, who welcomes the hundred actions you are preparing to take with the World Health Organisation, I congratulate you on that - Mr Kurublis had threatened me with a special court, Mr President, a month ago at the ANTA1 TV station and the MEGA television station. I am very pleased that you continue the reform programme of the World Health Organisation, which I signed following a decision by Andreas Lykourenzou and which Macis Vorides continued, but it would be well if we could have accepted an apology from Mr Kurubli, who threatened us with a special court for what you are now applying and well implemented. I'm telling you why you mentioned it. Secondly, I have no objection to the adoption of a ministerial decision supplementing problems arising in the implementation of the previous one. Who said a ministerial decision is a sacred gospel? My objection is different. So the previous government - you say 'with delay', I say 'when we could, because we first needed the primary surpluses to pay' - the introduction of the access of the uninsured people to the National Health System and you say that you are coming to complete it. When you bring your own decision, we will judge it. Because you said you get information from the channels and from the newspapers, I submit for the Minutes per hospital how much the decision has cost. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr President, thousands of our insecure fellow citizens have already been served by this ministerial decision. And what I'm presenting is only for hospital treatment, because of course in private pharmacies, all uninsured since last summer will normally take their medications, only paying for participation as if they were insured. They have 100% access to the medical coverage. We gave EUR 95 million for the medical coverage of uninsured people when your humanitarian crisis bill predicts 20 million euros. I'm saying that to understand the differences. So, if I understood correctly, all you say is that you will do is improve our previous ministerial decision - and my own and Mr Voridis - with which we have already provided access to all our insecure fellow citizens. Good to get her! I repeat that if you set up an income criterion, you take a step back. We've taken a step forward. We have no income criterion at all. Return, you say, to the 2006 ministerial decision. I would like to say one more thing, Minister, which is of great interest to the news. I do not question your good intentions. However, as former Minister for Health - not only as a member of the Athens II Parliament - I should like to say the following: with the economic policy pursued by the government, with the underfunding of public hospitals, obviously for the purposes of paying creditors and the general problems of the country, public hospitals are in a marginal position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I stress it because I want it to be recorded in the Minutes. It's on a limit point of operation. You have given no answer about what you will do with the non-contractual expenses of hospitals. This results in already suppliers of consumables to threaten our hospitals with a complete disruption of supplies. Minister, this means that if Mr Kurubli's decision is implemented yesterday, who in the morning, Mr President, disagreed that hospital cash was requested and that the New Democracy should come and present Mr Kurubli's paper calling for hospitals to give their cash to the Bank of Greece in order to be able to pay salaries and pensions - but without liquidity, public hospitals cannot take up credit - we are at risk of a complete collapse of the system. So it is good to discuss here about your good intention to improve the previous decision. I understand, if I understand correctly, that you said you'd also have a communication campaign about it. Bravo! Get out of here! With you! But first of all, you have to acknowledge that the previous government has indeed provided cover to the uninsured population and, therefore, what you are doing - we will see, of course, whether you will do so and how - it is an improvement to the previous government and you do not have glaukas in Athens. You haven't. Secondly - and I am closing down with this - in respect, Minister, the lack of information and what you said was not the case, that is right and fair. I as a Minister of Health, when I had an incident that occurred to me, had to be my own man, when I was in active Minister, to call myself in PEDY, where the doctor did not know that the uninsured right to access the system. I had to explain it to him on the phone, so he could understand that there is this access. Yes, because, although the public administration is working too hard, until the ministers' decisions are implemented in the last step of public administration, this has a delay in time. But be careful. These are the problems of Greek public administration over time. With you and the campaign, with you and improve it. But you must firstly say that we have made a major scandal with the WHO, since you well implement the programme and continue it. And you're right, unless we go joining the special court. Secondly, you must recognize, at last, that the previous government has taken the big step and you are simply coming to fill it out. Thirdly and finally, I want a commitment that there will be no collapse of the National Health System. I am not saying this too much by opposition ostrich. The public hospitals in the country have a terrible sub-fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Comrade, finish it up, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u17	The SYRIZA Government has received half of what the 2015 budget predicted. Now they are asked to hand over their cash reserves, which means that hospitals are at risk of being closed down. I want you to make a commitment that this won't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u19	My dear colleague, I think you're really causing. You're literally causing it. The political leader of a policy which, with a plan and not an economic weakness, dismantled primary care - your infamous reform has led to a dissolution and a complete weakening of structures, and the whole world knows it - has shrinked the clinical structures and services of the ESS, transferred costs to the citizens and facilitated the development of the health business sector, cannot today abandon the government, which has the political priority of surviving public care. We have an austerity budget with a very large cut. Only EUR 230 million less is for 2015 compared to 2014. Indeed, the hospitals and health structures in Greece are at the limit at this time, it breaks down both the health system and the morale of people, because they are exterminated working and impoverished wages, and we are fighting today to keep the health system up with nails and teeth. On the issue of the legislative issue, we have explained to all tons that this does not affect this regulation, which is a regulation to strengthen the country's liquidity at the most crucial moment for the political negotiation with partners, does not affect the current operational needs of neither the health system nor any body for the next fortnight. Therefore, do not represent us as the undemocratic and the sensitive to the functioning of the ERC. On the issue of uninsured persons, we have said and reiterated that the previous government recognised the problem following the international and internal outcry and gave a framework that was inadequate and non-functional. This framework is being extended, we extend the number of beneficiaries, we broaden the scope of interventions and diagnostic tests and vaccination coverage and prenatal control and the provision of health material for long-term sufferers. So let's heal a policy deficit from the previous government, and we will do that, my dear fellow Member, because we have another political plan, which says that the crisis does not pay for the wage labour and the social state, and that public care and social services are elements of exit from the crisis and need to be strengthened politically. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] We have interventions in an emergency plan to cover the tragic shortages in hospitals today, to relieve the citizen. The abolition of the five-year-old was a step towards alleviating the citizens and especially the uninsured one, which has often not even had this five-year-old to go to the hospital, beyond the fact that there are, of course, thousands of citizens who have served in hospitals from the sensitivity of workers and many - I have to say, because they were not all of them - of administrations. Some created constant problems and obstacles. To these people right now, they have been charged to the DU, because they have been given a debt declaration, a huge, unbearable amount for this care. Well, don't tell us you solved the problem. Don't tell us that you solved the problem! We will deal with this in a spirit of perception and bias - let me say the term - for public care and in a spirit of societal relief. Health poverty is a crucial aspect of the humanitarian crisis that our country is going through, it is a political priority for this government and we will address it by ensuring the necessary resources from both the structural European funds and by increasing the State's tax revenues by means of the arrangements that we are pursuing at the present time and, of course, by intervening with the waste storms that the system has and finally by stepping up into the essence of the country's budgetary problem, which is the country's reduced tax revenues due to the immunity that the wealth had in the country over time. Inside, then, from a fair tax system, we will have the financial basis that will enable us to have a decent health system, with universal access to people and with reliable services. And that is what we will do with the joint ministerial decision, which we will put into joint public consultation - and I hope you will make some positive remarks, we will take them into account - and this will be a first important step in the prospect of universal coverage of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-two students and students and three teachers, from the 3rd Municipal School of Painting. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The third, with number 105/20-4-2015, is a top-stage question by Congressman Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the procedure for selecting the administrations of hospital units, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Also, the fourth under number 116/20-4-2015 topical question for the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakou to the Minister of Finance, on the abolition of tax provisions for small and medium-sized farmers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. And the fifth question under number 104/17-4-2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need for the immediate payment of the sums due to hospitals in Achaia, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister and deleted. Now, the first question will be discussed under number 113/20-4-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the PES in Chios and the payment of doctors who worked there for nine months. The honourable Member will have the floor, and the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. My timely question concerns the six doctors of the PEDY, who, among their twenty previous colleagues, were placed on 17-2-2014 and about one month later were fired without any compensation. These doctors shall submit insurance measures against availability and dismissal and shall be entitled to the availability and six shall return to their service. On 10-2014, the second court rejects their appeal, but remains in their service pending their dismissal, which they have never received in writing. On 17-9-2014, the then Minister of Health, Mr. Vorides, assured from the Step of the Parliament that doctors would be normally paid, as he has ensured, in his statement, the relevant budget. It is noted that the doctors throughout this period worked normally, prescribed, examined patients through the official ETA dating list, etc. On 27-2-2015, the then Commander of the Second Health Region, Mr. Papapoupas, assured doctors that the money has been credited and that they will be paid properly. Some days later, on 2-3-2015, it suddenly announces to them that they have been illegally working since the date the insurance measures had been rejected, that is, from 10-6-2014, and that it has no obligation to pay them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From 2/3, these doctors have interrupted, as expected, the provision of services to the Chios MEDIA and rightly so, with an explosive situation in Chios. There are only four doctors, one of whom is seconded to the Hospital of Chios, and there are three others who are trying to serve a large number of insured persons. The question I raise to the honourable Minister is first - first of all, whether this fundamental moral issue will be restored - namely that the previous government has kept these people with constant promises to a hostage regime, let us say it - if they will be paid for this period, 10-6-2014 to 2-3-2015, and whether the Chios ERIC will continue to operate with three doctors. For example, the specialities of the doctors I'm talking about are orthopaedic, urogenogue, ophthalmologist and radiologist, i.e. first-line doctors, battle line. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u23	Thank you for asking my colleague. The problem you are right to raise is, in fact, a side effect of the terrible reform of intervention which has taken place in the primary care of the honourable Member, Mr Georgiadis. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4238/14 led to a complete disorganization of these problematic and subordinated areas before public primary care structures in urban centres. They left over half of the doctors - who were actually expelled - a part of them made legal actions and some of them still remain with part time or private medicine status in public structures, but some of them lost insurance measures and there were negative judicial decisions, such as in the case of the doctors of Chios. Obviously, then with political coverage of the Ministry, these people remained working with the promise that they would be paid, which of course could not happen when there was a negative judicial decision. Our feeling is that there are similar judicial cases in many regions and structures in Greece. On the occasion of this question, the problem was raised. Obviously we cannot accept reasonable unpaid work either in the public health system or anywhere and because we believe that people in public care are currently making an excellent and friendly effort to keep the health system up and provide vital services in the world, so the state will do everything it can to deal with it. We will see a comprehensive list of such loose ends and we will prepare a regulation in the very near future, which will address this issue definitively. For the important problem, of course, of subscribing the unit of the CID in Chios, there is unfortunately not just a question of regulation. We have a path of continuous depreciation and 'haemorrhage' of human resources today by public structures, mainly because of retirement, especially in island and arid areas. It is indicative that, although these four supplementary medical posts were announced for primary care, i.e. only one of them was covered, and perhaps the one that was not first and more urgent, such as the positions of the pathologist, cardiologist and the pediatrician. So, in our view, there is a serious incentive issue now so that we can stop the huge 'haemorrhage' of scientific potential and especially of young doctors from our country. It is well known that the lists of skilled people are being emptied today in many, especially provincial, hospitals and, if this course is not reversed, the country is at risk of being left without qualified doctors in the next period. So we need to send a signal as a state, and I think that the interventions made by our Ministry at this time and by the government, which is exactly the aim, are to send a signal that this dissolutionary and disastrous course in public care is stopped, that primary care is stopped as a matter of lost concern and that there is a plan to reconstruct and strengthen public structures. The Prime Minister's visit to the Ministry of Health, which was the first ministry he visited, is not negligible at all. He has a political symbolism. The first recruitments of permanent staff announced were made for the health sector and we are currently devising a plan - and we will soon be able to allocate it and specialise it by region and structure - health support with permanent and subsidiary staff. Of course, we are working on a system of incentives, a grid of incentives - I believe that in our Ministry's first bill next month we will be able to present it - which will increase the turnout of new doctors to meet these enormous and tragic needs, particularly in the island region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Mr Michaelides has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u25	I think it is obvious that the issue that we have tried to raise through the timely question to the Minister raises a part of a more general issue, which has arisen from the policies implemented by the previous government. I would like to point out that in the case of Chios, PEDY offers, as in all the relevant cases throughout Greece, services to thousands of people insured. I would also like to point out the fact that among them are the seamen, namely the Navy Householders, who at all times raise the question of restoring the House's structure, since, as we know, it was abolished by previous policies. I would also point out that there is a unanimous decision of the Chios City Council on this matter. I would like to move to the Chamber and to the Minister of State the agony of the island, because this structure of primary care through the collapse, in essence, of the PEDY in Chios, is an explosive situation which creates serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, it is also our concern - and I do not say this as a form of speech - to be able today to keep public care up and running. It is a matter of priority political priority for us. We cannot imagine that this society and this country can come out of the crisis unless such urgent needs are met in the part of the humanitarian crisis, health poverty, the social state, which has suffered a very brutal deterioration in recent years. I think we need to end this low expectations climate for public care, which has been consolidated in recent years. As I said before, the signal given by the previous political leadership is that the ESS and the social state are a budgetary burden, which we must slowly get rid of - to have primary surpluses. That is why young children, seeing also poor working conditions in hospitals and low wages and cuts and unpaid overtime and on-calls, have been systematically driven abroad in recent years. Thus, out of the nine hundred subsidiary doctors' positions, which were announced by the previous government for the MAGP, only two hundred eighteen, precisely because of this climate, were covered. So the rest of us will reopen them. We have reached agreement with the regions, especially the Aegean, first of all, and the North, then - we have held special meetings and meetings and we will try to extend this regime to provide a social package for doctors in these areas. This has already been decided by the South Aegean Region and includes strengthening the housing and feeding of doctors. We will try to extend it to all the inaccessible and barren regions of the country, so that we increase the incentives, facilitate the attraction of people, to cover the huge gaps in the system. At the same time, there will also be a serious effort, truly reformist, to the health system and especially to primary care. We will redirect the health system with a pillar of primary care. We have set up a working group at the Ministry which will soon bring us a first project, which will be consulted by all the stakeholders, local communities. It will be a real and substantial intervention that will facilitate access to the nearest level of the citizen with neighborhood doctors, with the healthcare team, with the family doctor, with the civil-type health centres. It will be an intervention first of all by democratic organization and rational planning of health services, which will start from below. This is our priority for this year. We believe that in this way we will also give primary care to the role it deserves in the health system and attract human resources, particularly medical resources - there are great deficiencies, because there are also shortcomings in other sectors - so that we can really give an effective battle of dignity, equality of people and decent treatment for the health problems of our population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the second question with number 110/20-4-2015 of the Second Senate of the New Democracy MP, Mr Fotinis Arabatzis, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the progress of funding and the development perspective of Amphipolis, will not be discussed due to an impediment by Mrs. The third question under number 106/20-4-2015 is the second time question of the MP Drama of Potamios, Mr. Kyriakos Harakides, to the Minister of National Defence, on reports from the manufacturer of Lockheed Martin on the reconstruction of the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and of Airbus' counter-proposals, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. Follow the fourth question by number 117/20-4-2015 of the Member of the Ionian Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the treatment of problems at the General Hospital of Lefkada and the Centre for the Health of Vasiliki. Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. It is not the first time, Minister, that the Communist Party of Greece brings to Parliament the problems of the Lefkada Hospital. Unfortunately, at the moment we are talking, the situation in the health units of the island is dramatic. It is a situation that runs and gets worse every day. In fact, there is no primary health care at the Vasiliki Health Center that today - not yesterday, Mr. Minister - you take doctors and you are battling, squatting literally, at the Hospital of Lefkas and at the same time from all the regional medical offices of the island. Of course - I said this is a long time - in 2014, to understand the size of the problem you are not facing today, twenty-six doctors have left. Even with this organogram which, in our view, forty-two doctors who do not at all meet the great, modern needs of the inhabitants of the island, we have this dramatic reduction. They're only nineteen now. There are huge shortcomings in the rest of the paramedical staff. The situation is dangerous, Mr Minister, and that is not what we say. It is said by the inhabitants of the island, by the workers at the hospital in Lefkada. Right now we have degradation and shrinkage of the functions of the cardiological clinic, orthopaedics, paediatrics, laboratories, blood donations. It's practically closed and the pathological clinic. I'm not a doctor, but you know when it's not working in a hospital, the pathological clinic doesn't actually work. And right now at the pathological clinic of the five organic positions only serves two. One will leave the next period and the other will probably go on sick leave. It's a huge problem, as I said at the Vasiliki Health Center, and it's a constant tactic. And don't answer that yesterday, Minister. It's happening today. And right next to the Vonicas Health Center today the only pediatrician there is taking her to Agrinio Hospital and she's also the head of the Health Center. You're taking her there now. Yesterday she informed me that she had an order to do on-calls in Agrinio and, on the other hand, they were trying to take her to Lefkada. This is the policy currently in place in the health sector and there in the region. This, of course, results in the popular layers of the area being transported to other neighbouring hospitals, which also operate, with the result that there is a accumulation of patients there, but most of all they are forced to go to private hospitals, with the result that the poor incomes of the populace are being evaporated further. Mr. Minister, we are asking directly to be recruited to the Hospital of Lefkada by the necessary medical and nursing staff serving the needs of the island. To have full funding. There are shortages in food, Minister. We don't populate, we don't exaggerate. There are significant deficiencies even in the supply of cooking. It's a dramatic situation. They're also away from meds. There is already a communication from the Vonitsa Health Centre - and I would mention this because it is almost in the same area - by doctors that first-demand medicines are missing. It is a communication with signatures - perhaps it has reached you too - where they cannot deal with urgent incidents. For all this, we call for a budget, for these needs to be met, as I mentioned to the medical staff, in consumables, but also in other needs of medicines and other materials that the Lefkas Hospital needs to operate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I really appreciate both the sensitivity and the way, if you like, that you formulate your intervention, but also the general sensitivity of your party to the issues of public care. I will fully agree to the description. It's like you say, no mood of exaggeration. There were very serious issues in the health system, particularly in some remote areas, in the islands, in difficult and atrocious areas and before the crisis. This level playing field, which has taken place over the past five years, with the drastic cut in resources, human resources, infrastructure in the system has widened inequalities and has led some regions, such as Lefkada, to a bad position in health services. The government's will is to strengthen the public health system. We have announced a whole range of recruitment of permanent and subsidiary staff to strengthen the system. But you know, dear colleague, very well that this does not operate automatically. We have a terrible bureaucratic and time-consuming staff recruitment system, especially doctors. Imagine that only for the recruitment of subsidiary doctors today needs an average of four to five months, effectively undoing the concept of emergency needs. So these days we are tabling the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, which will be discussed, an amendment that reduces and minimises this year and facilitates the process of recruiting subsidiary doctors so that these are the ones for the positions that we will be assigned to hope that doctors can quickly be recruited and filled with these gaps. So in the medium term, necessarily, my dear fellow Member, we must do our homework. We don't have a human resources tank at the Ministry available at any time to cover the gaps. So there must be contagious interventions. These interventions are not without problems. Many times they create new holes in the system, they also involve injustices and even inequality. However, the political mandate we have given to the administrations of the PPP is that we must, with nails and teeth, keep up all the public structures throughout the country today and where there is a relative adequacy of human resources - absolutely adequacy - we must realise that we must in this extraordinary period have synergy, cooperation, forced movements for some time. We are trying to make it with the consent of the workers, really respecting their work and their offer at this time, but I think what is important is the care of people who have no choice but to the public health system. The pathological clinic quite rightly pointed out that it is a hospital-pillar. There's a serious problem. Right now, actually, it doesn't work as a hospital that treats patients. With the moves that have taken place recently from Yannina, a typical function was ensured at the level of the external medical profession and emergency coverage, but the hospitalization of people who needed to be crossed over to neighbouring hospitals. The picture we have is that he returns at the end of the month from sick leave one of the two doctors holding an organic position. We also ensure with a colleague from a region within the HR, I think from a health centre, that is to say, the additional reinforcement of the clinic. We believe in the mid-term that the recruitment procedures for new staff should be accelerated. We will be proclaiming, from 12 atrocious places we had from previous notices, a package of twelve places, including two for the Lefkada Hospital. It's a pathologist and a cardiologist. In fact, these positions will also include the element of the grant from the Ionian Region - this is the social package that I said before - so that we can increase the possibility of recruitment. You know very well that there were positions in December, which have remained barren, because there has been no interest. It's a difficult period for the health system. We will do everything we can to cooperate with human resources to ensure public services upright and running.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Moraite, you've been interrogating for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u33	Mr Minister, I believe that you have in mind the fact that in the next few months, at least, the population will be doubled. Therefore, this situation will take explosive proportions. And we point this out because in the past few years there have been these problems and they have been explosives. You spoke of subsidiary positions that might meet needs. These are positions with expiry date. We're talking about doctors with permanent, stable work, who can really serve the needs of the local people. You're talking about the Prime Minister's announcements. Look, Minister, this is a drop in the ocean in front of the huge shortages in hospitals throughout the country. When we already have seventeen thousand jobs and pensions, when we talk about four and a half thousand, it's dropping in the ocean. And I don't know if, in the Ionian Islands, you spoke of some places going to Lefkada - the hospitals are expected to be staffed. Because the problems exist in other islands, in Zakynthos, in Kefalonia, in Corfu. There are also these huge problems elsewhere. In any case, we believe that the responsibilities of today's coexistence are enormous, because they implement the European Union's policy, a policy aimed at sub-financing, the merger of units and the closure of units, even in the hospitals of the country. And this policy, Minister, which is being expelled by the European Union, turns health into a merchandise, into an expensive commodity, especially for the people. Of course, you find money from the municipalities' reserves - I don't know - possibly the hospitals, from OPEKEPE some time ago to pay the lenders, the people's potential. Unfortunately, however, you do not find any money for people's needs, for what today is afflicting people's families. The situation, Minister, which prevails at the Hospital of Lefkada is not a situation which exists because of the memorial policies. It is a policy that is being promoted throughout the European Union, in all countries, by fire and iron. It is a policy that, as we have said, shrinks health structures, that is a policy which really allows business groups to invade even more in the health sector. Health is treated as a cost from state budgets. That is why this budget, which you voted against at the time - of course, it is now being implemented - and the one you will bring next year will be a budget, which will be in the direction of the implementation of these policies of the European Union. You may be applying a softer form in this area, but we are clearly saying that this does not change the core of this anti-popular policy at all. We call on the working people of Lefkada to take the case in their hands. They are not going to solve this issue. They must fight against these policies. And tomorrow, Minister, you know that there will be a grand rally in Lefkada, in which all the operators of the island participate, because - as I said in my prototype - the situation is explosive and is not handled - what you said - with overflows. We need radical solutions and we need these solutions today. We call on the people to question this policy, to fight for another policy, where health will be a social right, and it will be in a system exclusively public and free and not at the same time private. We are talking about abolishing private health initiatives because they do not go hand in hand with rights and profits, particularly in the health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I fully agree that radical solutions are needed in the health system. But this cannot be done immediately, here and now. I've explained it to you, I think, sufficiently. We're in an emergency today for the public system. And until it is completed in a reasonable and accelerated perspective this government's political plan to give priority to public structures, there will be a very important difficulty this year, because abandonment and intervention by the policy of austerity of neoliberal policy in recent years have been having cumulative action in the system this year. Our great concern is, as I have said before, to ensure with nails and teeth that structures are not closed and that people are not prevented from having access to decent services. Let me say that it is completely wrong political to see that the current government continues with the same political plan. What we had before was a political project of shrinking public care and the social state as an element of tackling the economic crisis, burdening wage earners, compelling incomes, cuts in wages and pensions and cuts in social benefits, extending the possibility of the business sector to cover the vital area left by the health system in the government that was retreating. That was the previous political plan. That's not what this is about today. Of course, we have a budget of austerity, the reform of which we have been preparing since now. We have set on the technical benches of our institutional partners the requirement that this year's budget be increased to survive the health system. I'm talking about hospitals especially. We consider the part of dealing with the humanitarian crisis and health poverty to be a crucial factor in the central political negotiation that we are currently making. And we will not allow the political will and the enormous social need to cover these gaps and demands of society to be put under any kind of negotiating balance. It is a question of self-respect for our society to strengthen public care, it is a question of social cohesion, it is a question of democracy, and we will do so seriously, with studied steps and a plan, and we will try to speed up recruitment procedures. First of all, we are expanding over time. Auxiliary doctors in fertile and island regions are serving three years of service, and we want permanent and stable labour relations. But until this is completed, we must necessarily use all the institutional tools that exist today to urgently meet the needs. We will put critical sections in the three-year term, such as intensive treatment units, pups' intensive care units, TLP, mental health units, oncology departments, EAW. We will expand from two years to a one-year term in the rest of the country and remain the one-year term of assistants, only for Athens and Thessaloniki. We are trying to do our best with these difficult and unfavourable conditions and with budgetary constraints. We intend that this should gradually be reversed, that austerity should be abstracted in practice in the field of health and that there should be a significant improvement in the daily lives of hospitals, health units, particularly in these problems in terms of staffing, areas that you have rightly shown that there are particularly in the islands. The distribution of the human resources that we are currently working on in this recruitment package will be done in a fair way, based on the real needs of the real needs, which come from both the regions and the hospitals and from the understanding we have with the trade unions of doctors and workers. We do not intend to allocate human resources in a customer-based sense, with a logic of settlements, factories and mediation to central political power. We must convince the citizens that the state at this difficult stage does everything it can with justice for their own dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth under number 103/17-2015 a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the repayment of funds from the Financial Stability Fund (FSF) to the EFSF will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. Also, the question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelli, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the problem of Special Training and Training Labs (EEAEC) and the Technical Vocational Training (TEC) will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. To inform the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report in the draft law: "Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting - Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment to article 48 of the Law. 2190/1920.’ The Ministers for Culture, Education and Religion, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, State, Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, and the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs have submitted to the House a draft law entitled "Additional measures for the immediate treatment of violence in sport and other provisions". The draft law shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs. There is also a letter to the Bureau stating: ‘I inform you that I need to absent abroad, in Romania, for family and personal reasons, on the dates 27, 28 and 29 April 2015. Please give me your permission. With friendly greetings, MP II of SYRIZA Giorgos Diaras." Does the House approve the requested permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u37	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-23-S1-commons.u38	With the agreement of the House at 11.05 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow 24 April 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny: a statement of petitions and a debate on topical and urgent questions, and b) legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed to you.
