ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-3-2015 authorisation, the Minutes of the IE Bureau were ratified on Friday 20 March 2015 with regard to the vote on the whole draft law on the relaunching of the economy.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Starting with the first with No 53/17-3-2015 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Mantas, Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the revocation of the decision of the General School of Life in Ioannina as a Model Experimental School. Mr. Mada's timely question will be answered by the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Aristides Baltas. Mr. Christos Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Minister, and congratulations on the letter you sent to students - we have also read it - on 25 March. It is essentially a revocation of a decision which, if implemented, will dismantle a school, a general school, located in the centre of the city of Ioannina and has been serving the inhabitants of the region for many years. What exactly has happened? Former Deputy Minister of Education Mr Dermentzopoulou decided by an act signed on 31-12-2014, following a proposal from the Committee of the Standards and Experimental Schools, to designate a specific school, the General School of Life, a building located in the centre of the city, to become a model experimental high school. This decision is in complete contrast with the documented decision of the City Council of the Municipality of Ioannina and the Regional Education Department of Epirus, which proposes to operate - if it is to function - an experimental school in the East, where there is a building, which has been built with money from the NRP. It's an energy building that's modern. It has all the standards for this school to function in the East as a model, if that's the Ministry's will. I put aside the debate on this whole issue of model schools, experimental schools, etc. I've dealt with these issues, and I've seen the positions of the Ministry. However, I repeat that the crucial issue is to withdraw this decision and move on - if we are to move forward - to establish a model school in a different building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mada, thank you for your question. It gives me the opportunity to once again draw the distinction between model and experimental school. Experimental schools, as you know, are those where the sample of students must be statistically correct, that is to say to take part in the lottery of children from all social categories and from there on, during the school, to become new, experimental forms of teaching, new methods of teaching, etc., and the results of these 'experiments' - in introductory forms - can be disseminated to the other schools. Standard schools are different. Most of them are historical. They're schools of excellence, in a good way. We must distinguish these two categories of schools, which has not been done by the previous governments, so that this whole confusion can be created. In relation to your question, the answer I think should be simple. Obviously this circular that you said, because the school to which you refer, is a school that claims nothing more than to remain a general high school, like all the rest, on the basis of the tradition of high school in the region. Also, as you rightly point out, the possible establishment of an experimental or model school in the East region of the Municipality of Ioannistes is something that should be considered. We do not want to end the standards or experimental schools that exist, but we want to broaden this institution as far as possible. So the next question is whether or not a model or an experimental school can be set up in the area you are pointing out is something that will be considered, given that there is a recommendation from the new Committee on Experimental Schools, which has already been set up, to look at these problems, at least in a transitional phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think that your position on the general point is of particular interest. I would agree with you that the institution of experimental schools, in particular, which has been involved in the issue of school standards in a peculiar way, in the way it has worked over the past period, has created many problems and questions. The General School of Lifelong Learning, located in the centre of the city, has thirty-five teachers. I would like to inform you that, as shown by the records of the school, at least since 1963, it has not been working as an experimental or standard school. In the city of Ioannina there has been a model Municipal School of Life, a model High School of Life and never a model high school since high school. I therefore think it is clear from your answer that if a standard high school is established in Jannah, this building which I am telling you can and must be used. It's a decision of the city's institutions. It is a building built with money from the NRP for this purpose and which hosted only a primary school that burned in Iannina, the 4th Primary School, where students were forced to go and accommodate themselves in the middle of the year. But it's not good for primary school. However, if the decision of the Ministry's political leadership is to establish a standard high school, it can serve the region well in this direction. On the basis of what you have said, I think that this is a solution. I would like to point out to you, however, that the withdrawal must come quickly, because in Yannina it is delayed in defining geographically - what is usually done during this very period - the roads from which children are going to the specific schools. This therefore has its topicality, but also has the urgency. It must be done quickly so that students in the region in the third grade do not look in other schools or look in private schools. It must be done quickly. It is a very good school, which must continue its operation, as it has worked for so many years and with this function it has become famous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th high school of Chania (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Mada. On the first point, you are right. It'll be quick, Circular. On the second point, we are very happy to see that the model school or experimental school is being set up - we will see it - to which you refer. Just, all this is within a planning plan where we need to see all the high school in the country, standards, experimental and'simply', so that somehow the forces will go to all of this in a way that does not easily give promises of something that might be difficult to do. But we see it perfectly well. We know the educational history of the city of Ioannina and the wider region and the historical schools of the region and we really want to see it as best it is, of course, in the context of the more general planning of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on, ladies and gentlemen, to the second with number 55-17-2015, a topical question from the Parliamentary Law of Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the relocations of students from the Architecture School of Metsovio Polytechnics and the Department of Architects of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Mr Baltas will answer that question as well. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question relates to a serious problem that has arisen in recent months with the refusal of the administrations of the specific schools mentioned, the Architecture School of Athens and the Department of Architectures of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, to register new-year students in schools who have been relocated on the basis of the recent Circular of the Ministry of Education. If I'm not mistaken, they're about two hundred students. These children, as you can imagine, are steadfast. They don't attend their studies. They can't take part in the tests. They cannot, at the same time, respond to the increased cost of study for the schools in which they went. They have lost, in essence, in their first year and there is a very serious problem preventing these students from studying. Of course - and we want to say this - it is unacceptable that the administrations of these schools should be in a position to act. Why, though these administrations are invoking real problems that schools have, such as infrastructure problems, problems of lack of funding, these problems should not be charged, by their actions, to the backs of their students and their families, but rather to claim to resolve these problems by the State and the government. The attitude of the administrations, however, does not minimize the government's responsibility. Of course, this problem has already arisen from the previous government. You inherited it. Nevertheless, you have the responsibility to give a quick answer, one solution, because these children, these students, are 'in the air' and their families are struggling. Already until this morning we have received calls from parents who know that this timely question will be discussed, about what will happen, when the specific problem will be solved, which I note is not the only one. There are other problems that have arisen from the transcripts, both in HEI and in TEI. Of course, they're not so steadfast. There are problems with transcriptions, where these students have enrolled, but they cannot actually use their student status. They don't have a feeding card, they can't take writings, they can't take part in the labs. This problem is not the only one. But it's the most escalating. And from this point of view we ask the Ministry what measures it will take in order to solve them immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. The Minister has the floor, Mr Baltas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Gioka, for the question. I could say that we sympathize with you. The previous government has ejected the relocations beyond any limit. The result was to empty many of the regional universities and fill the central universities in ways that in both cases - both central and regional - the process of education was completely disrupted. In one way or another most universities obeyed the law and signed the posted students and the two Architectures resisted it. They appealed - as you know - to the Council of State. They resisted for a reasonable reason - I will just say a few words about what I mean and how we appreciate it - I dare say. The reason for this is that the Architecture Schools due to the form of teaching, the particular way in which the course is conducted, in group, per groups of children and with groups of teachers, have reached the absolute unpredictable for the possibility of basic education for students. That is why they appealed to the Council of State so that the relocations do not apply to them. The Ministry - before we take over - was, of course, in favour of equality, and so the Ministry was presented to the Council of State against the appeal of the Architecture Schools. That application is still pending. For our part, we have just understood the problem, and we have tried to speak with the Architecture School and Athens and Thessaloniki, to convince them as far as possible to withdraw the appeal, precisely for reasons of equality. Rightly - perhaps - on their side told them to wait for what the Council of State will decide and see. And so, in that sense, we're there. Legally and institutionally, we cannot do anything more than if the Architectures lose the appeal to help as long as we can as a Ministry receive minimum teaching aid - we are looking to find similar ways - these two schools. From that point on, we need to realize somewhere that the relocations are a very big problem. There can be no one-way translations - for social reasons, I agree - in the direction of schools and without taking into account the fact that schools have a well-founded potential for decent teaching. We need to find a golden incision about how the transcripts should be made. These must be done exclusively on the basis of criteria relating to incomes and social needs. At the same time, parents have to have - and we and them - a conscience of difficulties, have to take care that it is much more expensive for them to study children away from home. And as long as the state can in the difficult economic conditions it is, it will help. But they can understand that he can't do it all. So there's also a responsibility as to how the kids fill out computers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u14	Mr Minister, I beg your pardon, but your answer amazed me and I can tell you that it has surprised me unpleasantly. I'll tell you why. You said about the Architectures' attitude, they resisted. Against whom did they resist? Against students, that at the moment there are two hundred students who cannot be registered? Do you know what would be an act of resistance? To register the students and claim in every way - to be chosen by them - by the government, by the state and by the state to solve these problems, so that these first-year students and all the other students can take care of their studies. That would be a real act of resistance. But what is now happening is not an act of resistance. This is an action that turns against students and becomes students in the literal "black" between the Ministry, the foundations and the Council of State. Secondly, you say that the former regime has evicted the relocations and problems arise in schools. And here I don't agree. The problem of schools, Minister, does not create it, but a policy that exists in the institutions. Do the relocations create the problem? Refills are necessary because they have serious problems for families to respond to the cost of study. And just because there are these problems, the least that should be done is to enable these children to study. The relocations create the empirical problem in the schools? I didn't get it. A policy creates it, a policy that says sub-financing, a policy that says privatisation, a policy that says "fresh" of recruitment by means of memorandum laws all this time. And because there is a lot of talk about the end of the memorandum, we all see that the implementing laws which have shaped such a situation in the field of education also live and reign. These need to be changed and not to be looking for the circle and saying that the relocations create a problem in schools. No, the relocations are necessary and must be done. The problem in schools creates it in politics and not in the relocations. In this sense, I think that in the basic question when this problem will be solved with the families and children who are struggling, the government has not given an answer. This is what those who are following the debate today, that is to say, even though when these children will be able to register and be able to follow their studies in an uninterrupted manner. Instead, we hear here about tightening up the framework. In fact, we have heard the amazement that a family and a student must take account of the possibilities of completing their computers. Are we serious? So where a young man is going to study will not be determined, but will he define his wallet and financial capacity? No, we disagree with all that, anyway. The point is that a solution must be found here to an intensified problem. We expect you to tell us when and how to do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u16	I am a little surprised by your position, because, for example, you know that income criteria were reduced to no longer in the "current" translations? Do you know that the registrants have very wealthy families from what we've seen? Do you know, for example, the horizontal for three-tiers and multi-tiers, regardless of income, the possibility of relocation? That's what we need to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u17	They don't create the problem in schools. But it's the problem. Let's not forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u18	You forget that as far as the issue is concerned, there are at least two or three more institutions from the Ministry. There's the self-employed of the university, so it can't force the Ministry and say "Write them and don't write the others". There is also the Council of State, which will also take a decision on this matter. From that point on, after questions have been resolved at the level of such institutions, as you say, the Ministry of Education will not disagree with the absorption of this huge wave of transcripts, which dissolves university education in our country. The Ministry of Education, on the one hand, wants, as far as possible, to help those in need of economic relocation - we will not disagree there - but, on the other hand, it must also protect the possibility of these children - and others - to study effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before moving on to the next question, let me inform you of the following: First, MP of the Independent Greeks, Kammen Dimitrios, seeks permission to be absent from Parliament, following an invitation from the Republic of Uzbekistan, to attend the forthcoming presidential elections on 28-29 March 2015, from 26 March to 1 April 2015. Also, by MP Carditsas Mr. Konstantinos Tsiras, we received the following letter: "I would like to inform you that I request a few days' absence permit abroad from 29 March to 5 April in order to go to Johannesburg, South Africa for personal reasons." Finally, we have received a request from Mr Mitsotakis that the House approve a short-day leave for his absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u20	The House approved the requested permits. We are now moving on to the third with number 49/16-3-2015 topical question, first cycle of the People's Association MEP - Golden Dawn. Dessis Sveronis - Chondosios to the Ministers for Health and Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the impact of the demographic problem on the social security system. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Theanos Fotou. Mrs Sveroni-Hondonasiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not cutting glaukas in Athens with what I am going to say, that is one of the biggest problems that we now face as a country, as a nation, is demographic. Already the parties that existed in Parliament in 1993, in a resolution which was then the coalition - then the coalition of the New Democracy and the PASOK - had decided that in our country, the greatest scourge of which is subnatality and takes very large national dimensions, measures will be taken to address this problem immediately and in the near future not to reach what we have arrived at today. And where did we get today? Then, imagine, births were more than deaths. Twenty-two years later, we get not just at the same point, we're even backwards. Already since the beginning of 2015-17-3-2015- deaths in our homeland are twenty thousand, while births only eighteen thousand. What does that show? It shows that unfortunately these years we have done almost nothing to save what was coming and that is not just my point. Fear catches us all. There's a tsunami coming. For a people who survived for three and a half thousand years in this place and who came to conquerors - and because yesterday we also had the celebration of the National Palagy - it is tragic in times of peace instead of our population growing, falling. Already static services say that from eleven million we are today, the population of Greece will reach 2060 to 2070 the seven and a half million. I would like to ask this, Minister: what do we intend to do for the multitude, for our demographics, for the multitude mother, for the lifelong pension, which was, in fact, a good one? It wasn't money mother took. What was given by a multiple mother in the home or by boys who became soldiers, or by girls working people, was so much that her homeland gave her the least with lifelong retirement. And we must all - not just you - contribute in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u22	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u23	The demographic problem is a very serious problem for us to mention it very simply and to involve historically unrelated things, even asking for a government to resolve forty-five days. Firstly, as everyone knows, the demographic problem of the country is in line with the gradual decline in the social state which has been taking place for twenty years in the field of health, education and social security. Secondly, it cannot be answered by fragmentary subsidies policies. That is the policy to date. And that's what you're all asking. Continuously "give an allowance here, give an allowance there", when education, health and social security has been privatised. This is not how the country's demographic problem is solved when child poverty now reaches 28.8%, unemployment at 27.8%, when family income is evaporated and access to basic goods, when insecurity for an uncertain future is held throughout the country. Thirdly, we in this situation want to respond with long and complex policies, not with fire-fighting policies that have produced no results. Because this story is going on all the time. So in the face of the extreme neoliberal policy of the previous governments considered by children to be 'blocks' until yesterday - this is the tax policy that we intend to change - we have the focus of attention on the child and the rights of the child. And that, regardless of race, religion, origin, race. We are therefore providing and will provide the necessary institutional and material resources for the protection of the child. To n. 4320 on the humanitarian crisis, the first four articles of which the House voted unanimously, you know - as I have said repeatedly here in this House - that the only parent and multitude families, who live in extreme poverty, are for us. Fifthly, I would remind you in particular of the benefits granted to the multitude families. I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he is prepared to give us an answer. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some extra time. I would remind you that since 2013, the special allowance for three or more dependent children and families has been EUR 500 per year for each child. At the same time, since 2012, the single third party support allowance is EUR 40 per month for each child. Sixth, for the protection of maternity and working mother, the OAED has since 2008 granted special leave and special maternity protection six months after the expiry of the maternity leave. The OAED shall also pay maternity allowance equal to the minimum wage and additional maternity benefit. The OAED has nine nurseries in Attica and sixteen nurseries in the region, intended for a total of three hundred children. This alone the number shows the small range of needs. If we don't have kindergartens, how can we tell people to have children? And how can we tell women that we are protecting motherhood, when in the end women are unemployed? We know active employment policies programmes and that they provide 2% in the public and private sectors with the category of polytexts and tritecs, as well as 5% of luxuries in legal persons under private law and OTAs in public work. I will return to the second part of my speech, to tell you what we are thinking about all these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Sveroni-Hondronasius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u25	Madam Secretary, you know, I'm not naive. Of course, when I asked this question, I didn't expect you to say what he's done. I know you're not a two-month government, and I couldn't say that. Because I see your sensitivity, that's why I asked this question. I also have a particular sensitivity - if you like - because I am a child of a multiple family and live in the countryside, where the problems there seem even more intense because we have interpersonal relations. I wonder - as a large part of the Greek people who believed in you, who voted for you - what you intend to do, why does the Greek society actually decline? I understand what you said, that we are interested in - and we are interested in - children throughout the world, children regardless of religion and citizenship who live here in Greece. But, Minister, you will allow us to say that we are primarily interested in the Greek nation. It doesn't mean we're not interested in other children. But it is not possible to hear that we do not pay due attention to our own children, our own nation. Why, you know what? You know that, of course. It's a rhetorical question I ask you. There have been amazing people in this Mediterranean basin here, who do not exist. There are only historical backups to them. Don't get there too, Minister, to say that Greece is a great country once inhabited by Greeks. So what is to be done is now. It should have happened yesterday, the other day. This is where we don't indulge you. We simply want to know what you intend to do about what is called demographic problems, about what is called the major national problem for us. To perish as a people in such times, that is, at times, that there are no wars, is a crime for us of lasting treason against our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u27	Firstly, I said and repeat that citizens of this country who are lawfully taxed, who live in that country legally are equal citizens and their children, the children of the whole world, are children of this country. We racist attitudes are not going to defend nor are we going to defend ourselves, and we are perpendicular to all this bisecting conception and politics. We know that while motherhood is institutionally guaranteed, during the years of austerity, particularly in the private sector - and not only - it is a reason for women to lose their job. Who doesn't know that, that today, if you get pregnant, you might lose your job, and that's why you hide it or have an abortion? We will not allow that. We will strengthen the right of maternity for every woman. Those who violate it will suffer the consequences of the law. I said before that the country's demographic problem is a complex problem. It's a social issue, economic, cultural. Anyone who does not understand the complexity of this problem is continuing the same policies of the previous governments, which have created and increased. Of course, it is a much wider, wider problem. To make koruna now why Greek children do not do or - anyway - the population of Greece does not have children is a very narrow conception completely, which does not want to understand the complexity of the problem. In the years of austerity young people, new couples postpone family creation for a safer future. We must work for this future, as well as for the immediate fight against unemployment and, in particular, women's unemployment, for the creation and strengthening of the social state that has collapsed. Without nurseries, we cannot talk about protecting the motherhood and work of women. Without free access to uninsured parents and children in the health system, allowances look like a drop in the ocean. In Greece of the 21st century there are invasive children and forgotten children's diseases return. Without full-time schools, with strengthening teaching, free brunch and meal at first in the areas that have been ruthlessly hit by the crisis and then everywhere, we do not protect neither the rights of the child nor the rights of motherhood, which is why children are fainting in schools. Only by strengthening and maintaining public free education, the public free health system, the public insurance system and a fair tax system can we talk about designing a basic demographic policy. In this direction we want to work. The problems that have accumulated and increased over the years, we will try to take the point, step by step, overall rather than fragmentally, to deal with them. The transformation of the state from a founding and subsidizing state to a strong social state takes time, requires development and synergies of many sectors. We therefore call on you all to contribute in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. We move to the first timely second-cycle question under number 47/16-3-2015 of the MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the intentions of the Government to amend the institutional framework for the management of intellectual and related rights. He is here and will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis. Mr Aygeakis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, since I wish you a success in your work, I am coming straight to the issue of the current question. Collective management organisations operating in Greece are companies - I am sure you know that - for the purpose of managing and protecting the rights of intellectual property creators - they are n. Regulation (EEC) No 2121/1993, as well as the collection and reimbursement of such rights. A characteristic case is the Hellenic Intellectual Property Protection Company, commonly the “AGI S.A.”. The issue of related and intellectual rights has been a topical issue in recent years, particularly from the point of view of users who are complaining of abuses of them, repeatedly calling for change, improved the institutional framework. The economic part, finally, of the Collective Management Bodies is real rocky for the thousands of shopkeepers where music sounds at their shops - and more generally for professionals - which in many cases is not the musical means of attracting customers. In the previous parliamentary term, together with colleagues of the New Democracy, PASOK, DIMAR, Independent MPs and even MEPs of the Independent Greeks, with whom you are currently running, we made dozens of parliamentary interventions, questions, and joint letters to the then competent Minister and to the Competition Committee, which resulted in the Ministerial Decision on "Constitution of a National Dialogue Committee on Copyright and Contributory Rights and Public Enforcement". The Committee's work finally started on 8-1-2014 with a view to exploring problems in the field of public execution. The conclusion of the committee is - and you have it, I imagine - in our hands. But, Minister, I think it goes without saying that we should not waste any more time. The necessary dialogue has been held on all sides and the views of all the parties involved have been made known. Now it's up to you to move on. The state keeps going. It must be consistent, too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Furthermore, I am aware that following my timely question on 13-11-2014, the then State Secretary for Culture, Mr. Gereku, pointed out that the Ministry has drawn up a draft Presidential Decree, which has been tabled to the Council of State, which will provide for control and enforcement bodies for collective management organisations. Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that the Competition Committee is examining a multi-page complaint lodged by the Association of Macedonian-Thracian Radio Station Owners and Thrace with signatures and many Members of Parliament from several sides, which describes, in all necessary detail and documentation, the outrageous situation that the GPA and a number of other companies - not all - have created at the expense of the owners of the provincial radio stations. It is quite clear that our position is that there must be companies to protect and collect copyright, but that operate under a new, modern and also lawful institutional framework for the protection of rights, with reasonable fees that will arise from negotiation with the respective professionals, based on the use of music and of course harmonised market conditions. Finally, Mr President, Mr Minister, I would also like to inform you of a very important development. Recently, in the past few weeks, the Serres Court found innocent of fifty-six professional entrepreneurs, restaurant owners, cafés, cafés, who were found in the courts following a complaint from the Intellectual Rights Management Company SA. This is a decision - a station and certainly its content will be a tool for hundreds of other appeals from users to other courts in the country. So I ask you - and I close with this - if you intend to take a legislative initiative directly to amend - to improve the institutional framework for the management of intellectual and related rights by protecting both users and intellectual creators from abuses of collective management organisations. What is the position of today's leadership of the Ministry of Culture? What phase is it - if you know of course - the presidential decree that would provide for control and penalties? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, on copyright, there has been a very intense debate lately. You have taken the lead in this debate and you have been interested in the user side. What is happening at the moment is first - as you have already said - that the President-in-Office of the Council, which offers the possibility of imposing fines on the Intellectual Property Organisation, is in the Council of State in an advanced state. We expect the Intellectual Property Organisation very soon, except for a supervisory role, to be able to impose administrative fines, so that it has increased responsibilities, increased power to regulate the intellectual property market. This will be very important. Secondly, the conclusions of the Dialogue Committee - which you mentioned too - will be used in the process of incorporating into the national law of the European Directive of February 2014. It is a European directive that regulates all aspects of intellectual property in a modern way. What we are mainly concerned about is that it is trying to impose transparency on keeping accounts, what the rights collecting agency's assets are, and what the rights it must give to creators. It is also trying to impose objective criteria for reciprocity, which is also the case in the undertakings at issue. What we have as a Greek state to do is to incorporate this directive into national law by April 2016. I think that much sooner we will have completed this process and we will be able to give another integrated regulatory framework to both users and creators, so that they can coexist without friction and without misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. He has the floor for Mr. Aygeakis to be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u33	Thank you for the answer, Mr Minister. I just want to clarify that I have not been on any side. I have dealt with parliamentarians, defending the law - in my assessment - and the logic of using, of course, the tools provided by the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution. So I am not in favour or against one side. I defend what I consider fair, reasonable and honest to users and producers as well, because public reactions and complaints have not only been made by users, but also by several music producers who see an unequal and unfair treatment by companies or in particular by this particular giant company, the "GVO S.A.". I am pleased that you have referred - as I have heard - to a sense of continuity between the State and the Government in this matter. It's absolutely respected and satisfying me very much. Of course, I would like to make it clear to you that any attempt you make, Minister, in the direction of creation, always respecting the European directive and what has been made at international level, but also at European level on these issues, must be taken into account and I imagine that they have been taken into account, as far as I know, because I have read the minutes of the committee. So the faster we move with the consent of most or all of the wings - of course, there will be a consensus in this effort - the better. That is why I propose, Mr Minister, that you do not have anything to fear, and, when it is honest and clear, that we should set up, organize and programme directly a joint meeting of the Committee on Educational Affairs and Trade, of course, with your presence - where there will be opinions, and those involved in the Dialogue Committee, where there will be opinions, thoughts from the interested users, musicians, companies, Members from all sides of the House, so that each Member of Parliament who stands here and has the responsibility for the actions and the reasons for each legislative procedure. That should hug us all. Copyright and defence is an obligation for all of us, and we must do so. However, it is necessary to modernise the framework immediately. I would like to make another comment, if you will allow me, which concerns the Competition Committee. It has shown an unprecedented humiliation, which at least has upset me - and I say it just like that - because it cannot be sensitive to other issues and to such a matter, which has been complaints and, in fact, recently, a large, as I said just now, a complaint, signed and signed and documented by this Competition Committee, with the President-in-Office, must act as a simply market observer. Of course, thoughts, discussions and whispers are very much heard about interests or pressures that cause this stagnation. I want to believe that this is not the case. But if that is true, you have a responsibility to induce. If it is not the case, it is the responsibility of the Competition Committee to bring a conclusion immediately and, in particular, on the occasion of the last complaint lodged several months ago at its offices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, my remark on your frequent speech is about what I want to say to you, that I know you are aware. It's useful to talk in a field of mutual knowledge, to know what we're talking about. As far as the Competition Committee is concerned, I do not have much to say because it does not exactly fall within the competence of my Ministry. I think it falls within the competence of the former Ministry of Trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u36	The independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u37	Yes, the independent authority. And the General Secretariat of Trade has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u38	It's just that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u39	I think that we will also be able to do so on the part of the Ministry of Culture or the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs, and we can do so productively, very creatively. With regard to the forthcoming legislation and the Presidential Decree, which will give the Intellectual Property Organisation and the incorporation of the Community directive, they will greatly strengthen the legislative framework and also normalise all procedures. There is indeed an abnormality. There are many organisations, there are no objective criteria for making pay. That's gonna get in a row. However, what they are asking, they are obliged to announce it. They don't. They are obliged to take their reciprocity off both in the newspapers and on the organisation's website, on the website. They do not always do so in the best way and exactly when they are able to impose sanctions on the agency, then if they do not obey the law, the bell that will eat from the ministerial fine, which will be ragged, will force them to enter a series. Unfortunately or happily, we're entering this show. So the incorporation of the Community directive will save too many things. We have a time ahead of us. It is not so simple to incorporate a Community directive into national law. He needs attention. Finally, I would like to say that it is a permanent attitude of the Ministry of Culture to defend the rights of both users and creators. We can find a golden incision and I think in the next few months we will have taken the first steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u40	And we thank the Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, I would like to inform you that the fifth question under number 41/16-3-2015, the first question of the Achaias MP of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Finance and Culture Ministers, Education and Religious Affairs Ministers, on the publicity of the “OPAP SA” and the authorisation of online gambling through twenty-four online companies will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP and deleted. Also, the sixth question under number 44/16-3-2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Dodecanese, from the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the alleged extraordinary contribution will not be discussed due to the lack of competence of Ms. Valvaani to whom this timely question was addressed and deleted. The series is to discuss the fourth question with number 54-17-2015, the first-round question of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, about the lost teaching hours in hundreds of schools in the country due to the vacancies in teachers. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr Anastasios Kourakis. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. For another year, Mr President and Minister, the time of the lost teaching hours in schools throughout the country remains open, as this year's permanent appointments, this year's school year, were zero, but the recruitment of alternates was quite reduced in relation to the original announcements of the previous government. In the last five years - I mean 2010-2014 - the figures are well-known: we had eleven thousand teachers' departures in primary education and respectively some sixteen thousand departures in secondary education, which, due to the very few recruitments, have led to thousands of gaps both in primary and secondary education. Result of this, thousands of blanks throughout education, primary and secondary. At this point, I would like to stress that the situation is explosive as well. As a result, schools have been stripped of the necessary educational potential, increasing the lost teaching hours and degrading their function with what this certainly implies for the education of pupils, but also for the work relations of teachers, since thousands of teachers are still in work hostages, wandering years now throughout Greece as a substitute. On this basis, the questions to the Ministry relate to what measures will be taken in the direction of no longer losing any other teaching hours at the expense of the pupils of the people's families, but also to what measures will be taken by the Ministry in the direction of the recruitment of permanent educational staff and the simulation of all contracted teachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, thank you for the question that gives me the opportunity to present the planning of the Ministry of Education in this crucial issue, which concerns the coverage of the educational gaps and the actions we have in mind. Of course, I would like to highlight the point you are aware of, that the problem of educational gaps and lost teaching hours throughout the whole range of primary and secondary education and special education, of course, is not, unfortunately, a recent one. In time, Greek education has been afflicted by years of gaps, particularly affecting educational planning in the public school. Therefore, students and their families are heavily burdened and, of course, the educational process. The problem, as we all know, of educational gaps has become even more acute in recent years and in particular the last two, as they have been drastically cut from the Ministry of Education's budget with the revision of the 2013-2016 Financial Framework - in February 2013 - the appropriations entered for the recruitment of assistant teachers. We are all aware that for the past five years, unfortunately, there has been no recruitment of permanent teachers because of the well-known policy chosen by previous leaders to reduce the public sector. In this very difficult situation, if we add the thousands of teachers' pensions every year, which are not supplemented, precisely because of the reduction in recruitment, we understand that the situation that has been received by the current head of the Ministry of Education and the issue that we have been called upon to manage in the middle of the year with limited appropriations and with appalling pressure of time is too great. At this point we have to stress that the solution to this issue goes beyond the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, because you know that the recruitment process for the entire public sector is a basic objective of the government and of course of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, as is now called. We must also be aware that these provisions have been extremely restrictive in recent years and have also been concerned with education, that is, one to five and one to ten, which has not been the case, so that no intake has been made in any educational sector at all. In addition, we have also had the unfavourable result of training thousands of teachers' redundancies in technical training through the availability, without - I repeat - adding and taking account of teachers' pensions. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Give me some more time, Mr President. I must tell you at this point that, since the information we had from the competent authorities, the only request submitted by the previous political leadership was for three hundred educational posts and for which there has been no response from the committee responsible which approves these matters, as provided for by the Act of Ministerial Council of 33/2006. In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the absence of any comments from the interested parties, the information provided by the interested parties does not reflect the information provided by the interested parties. In addition, according to the information received from the Ministry of Education services, 11 thousand nineteen fourteen replacements were recruited full-time and reduced with appropriations from the regular budget, from the Public Investment Programme and from the NRP. That's the situation. On the basis of the well-known financial data, we will try to do everything we can to complete this year with as little losses as possible for students and plan our interventions for the new school year so that we can deal with as few problems as possible. That is the way in which I am going to go about my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u45	I listened carefully to the Minister. Of course, as a new government, the new political leadership of the Ministry of Education has recently taken up the tasks, finding a situation that we all know about, and the Minister and we, and the whole society, are experiencing. I mean, in the description we might agree. The question is in the solutions. Of course, you described all the situation that existed and brought us to this point in the part concerning primary, secondary and special education. It's a chronic problem. It is not even the last five years, because I will remind you that, before the economic crisis, we must say so - a crisis of these issues, that is, the shortcomings - to say that - has always been in the news. And there are specific policies that have been implemented in recent years, with a view in particular to under-financing and declining the public education sector. Do not forget that, along with the shortages of staff - what we are discussing today - a number of school-leavings and mergings have taken place in recent years, resulting in additional burdens on the number of pupils in classes, that is to say we have had thousands of classes over twenty-fifths. Of course, to say that the previous governments considered that thousands of lost teaching hours were a problem for the government only when students and teachers were in mobilisation in order to claim solutions to the increased problems posed by governments with their policies. That's understandable. Perhaps in your dentistry you will talk about some programming, some principles for the next period. But there are issues. We are at the end of March and before us are the pan-Hellenics. Removing holidays and some other days, the remaining days of teaching are very limited. And I specifically focus, if you like, on the issue of pan-Hellenic exams and, more specifically, on students, for example, from Larissa, Elias, and especially from Kefalonia, where there was the relevant information to the Ministry from their own as far as the "Organization, Administration and Business Principles" course was concerned, as was the case, where the children have not been taught an hour since September. These children are, therefore, invited at the end of May to give all-Greek examinations to a course that has not been taught. So what about these kids? How will the problem be solved? How can they be helped, even at the last time that is left to the pan-Hellenic exams? [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] At the same time, I also emphasise the enormous problems that exist in the secondary education of special education. Now look. The government has announced some fifteen thousand recruitments this year. Based on the number of retirement leaves, there are huge gaps. Already the gaps in primary and secondary education are about twenty - eight thousand. If we count on this year's departures, imagine that the next time the problem becomes even more explosive. That is why we say that the government should proceed immediately to measures. We agree with permanent and stable educational staff, with recruitment. Of course, however, this means a conflict policy with the existing ones. Because you mentioned the medium-term and the whole framework. So if you do not conflict with them, then you will say that under this legislation, you cannot hire until 2016-2017. So here's a splendid field of glory to conflict. I do not know whether the government intends to do this, not only in the field of education, but also in the whole range of its policy. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u47	Mr Lambroulis, I fully share your concern and the specific issues you have mentioned. I must tell you that we are not only opposed to gaps, but also to the existence of teachers at different working speeds. In fact, according to the principles of modern teaching science, there is a need for stability in the promotion of education. In fact, I would say that especially for Special Education, the problem is even more urgent, because children with special educational needs cannot be subjected to a change in education at any moment. As far as we are concerned, we are working at three levels, of course, knowing that it is impossible to solve the huge problem in a few months' time. However, we hope that we will lay the foundations so that they can be resolved over the next few years. The first level is that of cooperation with the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, to determine the number of recruitments. I must tell you honestly that this number of fifteen thousand, unfortunately, is not just about recruitment in education. The Government intends to fill gaps in education, health and control mechanisms. A number of them will therefore come to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. The second level is that of the return of the teachers available at the public school. As you know, there have been positive developments in this matter. Already in the draft law is the category of these fellow teachers, who will all return to work, to education. The third level is to ensure adequate credit for the recruitment of assistant teachers. We cannot use money from the NSRF to fill the gaps we have. I must tell you that under no circumstances do we prefer elastic employment relationships for public education. However, in the current financial situation, any credit, even in the way I mentioned it, is absolutely essential. So I must add that the previous political leadership had taken money to pay the substitutes and the mature 43 million from the Public Investment Programme. We then condemned this in the sense that, if you take money from public investment, you cannot intervene in the new schools, which we need - in Kefalonia, for example, there is a need for almost all schools to be rebuilt from the outset by new earthquake rules - nor to make the necessary interventions, especially in kindergartens, which are currently housed in groundhouses without a courtyard and other necessary conditions for this process of education. So now - I would say - in the previous three directions we have been moving since the first day, so that in the next school year we aspire the gaps to be less, the teachers are in time and the work situation is improved. We will honour with all the means available to us the work offered by our teachers in our schools, making it possible to upgrade them, and at the same time we will try all the schools in the country to start the year with as few losses as possible to their educational potential. In conclusion, I would say that we are committed in this context to the educational community, but also to the entire Greek society, that the government will do everything in its power to bring the public good of education to a noticeable stage next year. Our aim was, and remains, to raise the good of education and to uninterrupted access to it for all children. With this inappropriate principle we continue to work and we are sure that with the support of the educational community we will achieve for the good of public school and society the most we can. I repeat that I fully share your concern and the points you have made. In fact, some of them, such as giving and coming to the pan-Hellenic exams without having learned the corresponding lesson...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u48	For example, I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u49	But much more, which I have to tell you, lessons...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I am sorry for the interruption. I say, for example, that I mentioned it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u51	Yeah, it's just for sure. There are others, unfortunately. And they don't fill us any pride at all, but only obligation to be able to deal with them as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the last time, for today's time, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, fifty-five students and students and three fellow teachers from the 6th high school of Chania, from the second section. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the second with number 39/10-3-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity, the Environment and Energy, on the attitude of the Greek State to the new collective agreement of PPC. The Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr. Panagiotis Lafazanis will be present and answered. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 27 February this year the new operational collective labour agreement between PPC and PPC was signed. On the basis of this collective agreement, PPC committed itself, among others, for three years, to "covering the expenditure as a maximum of EUR 6 per day per feeding worker", initially "to the existing and existing mines and power plants of PPC, canteens and canteens" and "in second year to the other employees of PPC". So, six euros, feeding costs, i.e. an indirect increase in each employee's wages by about 70 euros per month for all PPC employees over time, is equivalent to an annual cost of about 35m euros, which will naturally be borne by PPC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Among the other things, provided for in the collective agreement, there is also provision for the retention of EUR 2 a month from each employee's earnings in favour of GENOP - PPC. It is also foreseen that a shift increase will be granted to trade unions, who, although they are posted and do not work, will be treated as normal working on shifts. That is, for example, my timely question. I ask you and the Minister of Finance a number of obvious questions arising out of this collective agreement. Did you know personally, Minister, that this collective agreement will be signed? And is it true that the statement by Vice President of GENOPH - PPC that you met with the club and gave the green light to the signature of this contract? I would remind you of something that you obviously know: The Greek State still controls directly or indirectly around 54% of PPC. What, then, is the view of the main shareholder, the Greek State, for such a collective labour contract? And as a broader question - and I will go back to my dentistry: do you, Minister, welcome such discrepancies for specific categories of workers when the vast majority of public workers do not enjoy this kind of privileged behaviour? And how do you treat as a responsible minister the fact that trade unions in consultation with administrations, which you place, give these kinds of privileges to certain categories of workers? Furthermore, what would be your view - and I will come back to it in my dentistry - on the question of the possible extension of such privileged treatment to other categories of workers, which is apparent to the Government, on the basis of the relevant article, which is in a bill submitted by the Minister responsible for public consultation concerning the possibility of public bodies, ministries, but also of legal persons of private and public law, to engage in collective negotiations precisely to secure the privileges?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis, I will be very sorry today because I have seen your timely question with surprise. Can you ask me the question to the present government? First of all, you should know that the negotiations on the collective agreement in PPC have started since September last year. When I took over, the negotiations were over. The collective agreement was concluded. And you're asking me to intervene in a booked collective bargaining? The collective bargaining is free. And during the time the government could not intervene much more when it was set up. In other words, it would be an intervention, which would abolish free collective bargaining, which your government did in the previous period, raw and, I would say, ruthlessly. From there on, you should know that the shareholder does not approve the collective bargaining or are decided by the general assemblies of a company, such as PPC. All relevant decisions are taken by the Board of Directors and authorizes the CEO to manage the negotiations. And this is within PPC's statute and standard practice. I don't understand. Why are you not being informed by PPC of certain things so that you do not say such gross inaccuracies? The contract was therefore signed by the CEO. I personally have not been involved in this contract and I have neither given any green light - as they say - nor red light. I have respected its result, as we respect and always respect the collective negotiations that the government does not conduct. The administrations are conducting them according to the law and the institutions, and they are, of course, always - and they must always be - freely assembled. From there on, I would like to make some clarifications, so that you do not get propaganda. The food or feeding allowance, to which you refer, is not a discovery of PPC's collective contract and it should be up-to-date. In a recent ELPE contract in 2012, a feeding allowance was concluded. On 3 November 2014, a school contract was concluded with a certain amount. I don't have time, but if I have to report to you and file the relevant contracts. A DESCRIPTION contract shall be provided according to DES feedingstuffs. I do not know whether you are considering collective agreements, whether you have seen a collective agreement, or whether you are generally detesting collective agreements and the role they play in industrial relations and the economy. But if you look at collective agreements, whether in public or private enterprises - for example, I mention a recent collective agreement at the "MOTOR OIL" - you will see that they contain a number of conditions relating to allowances, special benefits, special facilities, in addition to basic wages. That's reasonable. As far as "MOTOR OIL" is concerned, they have benefits of good stay, regularity, pension schemes, special pension schemes, hospital programs, medical examinations, loans, a series of other benefits. What do you think? Do you think that this is an excellent thing, to which the government must intervene, cut them down and ban them? There are no such collective negotiations. These are dreamy structures of extreme neoliberal circles, which are applied nowhere, not only in Europe but throughout the world. That's the reality. Now, with regard to the other things you say, on the shift increases or on the trade unions, I did not agree with them, I did not sign it, but you had to be informed by PPC of the arrangements in question. The increase in the shift for trade unions is determined by the courts. There's an execution decision from the court of appeal. The only way in which this decision could be called into question would be for PPC to appeal to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u56	Why didn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u57	Do not interfere because again you will be wrong and out of reality, as all your question is out of reality as well as a little obedient. I'll explain it to my dentistry, too. He didn't, not because he didn't want it or he could, and he wouldn't want it, but what is the legal reality? In the Council of State, according to the information I have - and I think it is valid from PPC - it could have resorted, not for reasons of the correctness of the decision, but for reasons of legality of the decision. It was, however, decided by her lawyers that such an appeal would be in vain. Furthermore, you must know that those who have a trade union licence have the same rights as those who work. The trade union licence is not a punishment, it is not something that should be regarded as a misconduct, something which must be persecuted. The trade union licence also has a role to play in the trade union movement and in businesses. On the issue of the EUR 2 - again I am giving you information from PPC - it concerns only the primary organisations which conclude the contract. It will be given following a decision by the administrative boards or general meetings of the primary organisations and any member of these primary organisations who does not want to provide these EUR 2 assistance, as they have informed me, may not give them a statement. PPC is doing nothing but transferring the amount from payroll to GENOP/PPC for those who voluntarily want it. That's the reality. Anyone can judge it, but they need to know the facts, the facts and how they form them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty-one students and an instructor - their attendant from the 2nd Glyfada Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u59	You mentioned, Minister, the word abhorrent. What I detest is that the public sector workers in the wider public sector are divided into paternal and plebiscite, that there should be some who can obtain special privileges when the large majority does not guarantee them and that there should be political leaders who, by redeeming party notes, should close the eye to such practices. You mentioned the example of the 'MOTOR OIL'. What does "MOTOR OIL" have to do with this debate that we're having here? Is it the Greek public shareholder in "MOTOR OIL" and I didn't know about it? Evidently, the Greek State must also have an opinion by way of administration on such a practice. I would remind you that the Greek State has the majority in PPC. It therefore appoints the administration and can properly carry out the shareholder's tasks and has an opinion as to whether PPC's administration should charge PPC's results with EUR 30 million - because we are therefore discussing - and, if necessary, in order to obtain the profits that PPC is required to make, to relay the account to the Greek taxpayer and to the consumer. So, obviously, the Greek State must have an opinion on this issue, namely whether such privileges exist in such an undertaking and whether today, at a difficult time in which all civil servants are asked for sacrifices, these privileges are justified. But, of course, I am not surprised that you are inclined to defend such a practice, because in addition, you were going with Mr Fotopoulou until you decided not to put him on your ballots, Minister, so that it does not cause you any political problem, and who is now coming out and rejoices about this convention, telling everyone else to pour vinegar if they do not like it. What if the rest of the public companies come in tomorrow and ask for such privileges? What will you do, Minister, as government? Will you approve? And will that be fair to the rest of the workers? If you really want to move on to bold reforms that will deal with officials under the same regime, so that these outrageous discrimination do not exist, then what you can do is to be informed of the bill, which we have already prepared as a government, together with the co-legislator, the Ministry of Finance, which was trying, Mr President, to put in place a framework and uniform rules on how companies, which are really under the control of the Greek State, are going on and signing such collective labour agreements. And yes, these contracts of work should be under the control of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Administrative Reform in order not to intrude, Minister, into these contracts a number of privileges either in the form of feedingstuffs, either in the form of insurance contracts or in the form of childcare facilities, which simply do not apply to other workers. And I would expect you as the left minister who is this principle of equality of staff to defend it and not to defend such discrimination against the benefit of certain categories of workers, who, after all, have very close political relations with your own place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are talking again about two measures and two weights, one of which belongs to the Greek State by majority vote, so it belongs to the Greek taxpayer, who obviously did not ask about these practices, Minister, and a practice which does not apply to the rest of the public. Because the implementation of the single wage, which was a conquest for the Greek Public Administration, attempted precisely to eliminate such discrimination. Small feathers of power that can be negotiated with political backs, obviously your own and your own government - because this collective labour agreement assures you that it would not have been accepted, if it were another government today, and if the CEO had signed it, it might have already been replaced, as it has been possible, and you know it, the main shareholder will do so - hard trade unionists along with their political leaders and patrons to sign such contracts at the expense of the Greek taxpayer: This is your practice and this is your total route. So I do not think there is any impression that you indirectly embraced this practice and perhaps encourage it for other businesses, which are under your control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have not heard my prototype or do what you have not heard and insist on completely unreliable and unrealistic things. You also insist on an incredible neoliberal empathy. Mr Mitsotakis, because you do not know and have not listened to what I said, I will repeat: With regard to the EPP Convention on 30-4/2012, in which the public is involved, it includes a daily feeding allowance of EUR 4,80 per working day. Indeed, the contract says that the value of this school will be given to both the Christmas gift and Easter and the licence allowance, even to the compensation paid by the workers. Why did you not protest and how, as you say, your Government accepted this convention, since in any case it is so contrary to workers' privileges, supposedly? Why didn't it sound like a voice? Where were you when the ELPE contract was signed? Did you read too? Secondly, with regard to the 3-11-2014 MSY contract...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u62	Badly signed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u63	Poor thing, pussy? But now you're saying that? You said that the PPC contract, if you were a government, would not have been signed. So I'm reading you on your government and with Minister to your central role, what he co-signed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u64	Not me. Mr. Chrysochoid from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u65	Don't give me that now. The governments are united and the ministers are responsible, collectively. In the contract, on 3-11-2014, with your Government: 4 euro food order daily. As you know, the State participates in S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D. In the ICES Convention, which is a public undertaking, it is stated that feeding is provided, according to the feeding process. I could list many contracts in public enterprises or in businesses that have an important role to play in the public sector. I have read you and private enterprises that have similar practices in collective agreements signed with workers, i.e. providing various kinds of benefits and benefits for workers in various sectors and various side effects. So why were these signed? Why now - and I say this to you personally - just for PPC? I'll tell you why. Because PPC bothers you. Because PPC is at the forefront of yours, of the previous governments and of course of the New Democracy and of PASOK. Why is he in the target? For the simple reason that you wanted to cut it into small and large PPC, dismantle it, sell it and privatize it, because PPC is a burden for you for the Greek society and you do not miss a chance to attack PPC for no substantial reason, without any reason. Hey, you won't get past it! PPC will not be privatised, it will not be cut, it will not be granted, it will not be granted. On the contrary, PPC will remain large, reconstructed and will play an even stronger and essential role in getting out of the crisis. That is the truth, and that is why you are asking these questions, which you did not ask about previous conventions and others that have been signed, agreed on your governments and about almost the same things, and about a number of other conventions that do not concern the same things but otherwise. The conclusion is therefore clear. What is bothering you is the public PPC and what is bothering you is the free collective negotiations. I didn't take a position on the collective agreement. I have neither come out to celebrate and applaud nor certainly to deceive or zero. I did what is required to do a serious and responsible government. That is to say, to allow these negotiations to develop and to respect their final outcome. We are not making or making ministerial decisions in a night that will break down the minimum wage and abolish the national collective agreement. We have not abolished the freedom of collective bargaining, nor have we arbitrarily put a cap on the substance and cancel the role of collective bargaining that is the heart of democracy. But that's what you did. And you can justify this now and attack a practice that otherwise you should respect. In any case, PPC's representatives are always open to discussions and meet with anyone, much more with a MP, and especially the Anti-Population, in order to inform them of everything that has been distributed, of how the negotiation for this collective agreement began and how it came to be concluded, about what it contains, because it or the other contains, as well as whether these are special privileges or not. You could have had a substantial debate before you tabled the question to the House and we come to do that kind of debate and confrontation. But you didn't do it for reasons of empathy, I'm afraid. As soon as you hear PPC operate reflexes as they occur in Pavlov's reflex experiments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I would like to speak for half a minute on a point of order. I would like to ask the following question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u68	Just a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis. Although ethics is not the way you put it, because it is serious, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u69	I will simply mention the need to respect time, Mr President, from the Bureau, because parliamentary control requires a balanced approach to the debate on the part of Members and Government. Mr. Lafazani, you spoke seven and six minutes. I would ask, from now on, that the respondents should not escape to such an extent, so that there is a real equivalence in time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u70	I feel the need to say on behalf of the Bureau that all honourable Members have not been interrupted to the intended two-minute or three-minute. No one was interrupted. And as far as I know, this practice has been followed at least during all the meetings I have attended. Today no one, nor you, Mr Mitsotakis, have been interrupted in time. There was a comfort of time, so you can unfold your opinion in more time than predicted two-minute or three-minute. This has also been done with the Minister and with the Ministers. I think that's gonna be with a comfort and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u71	But I kept up with the time. That's the difference. I confined myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-26-S1-commons.u73	With the consent of the House at 11.38' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 27 March 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: reading petitions.
