ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour of announcing to the House the news sheet on Thursday, 9 July 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 402/30-6-2015 by Congressman Laconia of the New Republic Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health on the problems of the Castoreio Health Centre in Laconia Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 387/23-6-2015 by MP Heraklion of the River Mr Spyridon Dannelis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of OAED Professional Schools. 3. H under number 396/30-6-2015, a topical and urgent question from the Member 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Helen Gerasimidou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the State Theatre of Northern Greece. 4. The Question No 392/29-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the abolition of the special year of the Ministry of Education for the appointment of multitude of teachers in secondary education. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 403/30-6-2015 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy Mr Christou Boukorou to the Minister of Finance about the heating oil allowance. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 389/25-6-2015, a topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the River Mr.Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the recognition of the graduate degree in higher education in Dramatic Art as equal to that of the graduates of the TEIs or the KEEA of Dramatic Art in order to be appointed for the teaching of the theatrical education course in primary schools. 3. The Question No 397/30-6-2015 by MP I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Liana Kanelli to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the payment of the prizes to teachers from the Pan-Hellenic Examinations. 4. The question by number 378/23-6-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problems of compulsory admission to the OAU of freelance professionals in the OGA. 5. Under No 367/19-6-2015, the question of the government's position regarding the findings of the "Public Debt Truth Committee". 6. The Question No 382/23-6-2015 by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the application of collective agreements at hotels. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 375/22-6-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, on the publication on cooperation by Elena Panaritis with a well-known multinational company, while at the same time participating in the negotiating team of our country. 8. The Question No 372/22-6-2015 by MP Aitolokarnanias of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning the transfer of the three university departments of Agrinio to Patras. 9. The 366/18-6-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health on the functioning of the Coordinating Centre of the National Transplant Organisation (EMO). 10. The Question No 383/23-6-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the Health Center of Haraka, the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousias of the Prefecture of Heraklion. 11. The Question No 368/19-6-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the European programme ‘ERASMUS+’. 12. The question asked by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the delay in the regulation on ‘red loans’ for farmers in the former Agricultural Bank. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 350/15-6-2015 by the Member of the State of New Democracy, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the end of the reinvigoration. 14. Observed. The Question No 343/12-6-2015 by MP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the delay in the issue of disability pensions. 15. The Question No 362/16-6-2015 by MP Athina of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the reintegration of OAU contractors. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The Question No 360/16-6-2015 by MP MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning measures to resolve the problems of workers in the mines of Kassandra. 17. Under number 318/8-6-2015, a topical question by MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance about the remuneration and commitment of a liquidator from the Bank of Greece for the “CONTRIBUTE BANK”. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Socialist Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the integration of citizens into the programmes to address the humanitarian crisis based on the incomes of 2014 or 2015. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece by Athanasios Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the problems of workers in the plastic tubes and fittings industry "KARINA S.A." in New Santa of the Regional Unit Kilkis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and on the draft law as a whole: "Amendment of provisions of the Code of Hellenic citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’. Before giving the floor to the SYRIZA Member, Mr Georgios Diaras, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its report to the Prosecutor's request for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. The Secretary of the PASOK Parliamentary Group Mr Leonida Gregorakos informed us that today the PASOK Parliamentary Representative is appointed as the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos. Mr. Georgios Diaras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, our homeland, Greece, is going through the most difficult turning point after the Occupation and the Civil War. With the referendum Greeks and Greek women trusted the Prime Minister and the government with a fair and sustainable solution. What has changed is the meeting of the political leaders and the real dialogue that has been conducted with a shared conclusion and a joint proposal. This climate change and the understanding that goes beyond ideological and political differences, is one hope that we can move forward at least to what we agree and agree on the salvation of our country. Greece is a global symbol for its history, culture and monuments. The ancient Greek culture was the foundation of European culture, which affected the evolution of all mankind. The history of the Greeks is linked to Western Europe. The Greek settlements bloomed in Venice, Vienna, Moldova and elsewhere. Greece is Europe and must be involved in the process of economic and political integration. The Europe of neoliberalism does not satisfy us, as the world's new order does. But our position is at its core and we must all change it together. On the subject we are discussing today, citizenship, I will not go into detail with the provisions of the Legislation on citizenship, because I agree with many other speakers that this issue has been exhausted. For the Greek society it was a mature demand and some should dare take the step of its implementation. The step that conservative parties could not take, the government was doing with SYRIZA's trunk and so a series of social, economic and especially rights problems are solved by the recognition of people born in Greece who feel Greek. The right sees the problem of mass migration of refugees towards our country and Europe, but it does not see the causes that cause it. Who created the wars in Libya, Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere? Who contributes to climate change and pollution of rivers, lakes and seas? The great lake in Tanzania that fed the whole country, the Europeans after taking advantage of it, altering its natural balance, made it almost a dead lake. You will remember that documentary with the exploitation of the turf and the planes that brought the fish to Europe. Who, then, seize natural resources from the peoples of Africa? And if the policy of the developed world and the robbery of people and nature are not changed, hundreds of millions of refugees will come to Europe. Not millions, hundreds of millions in the next decades. Today, as an expressioner of the political ecology, I would like to place myself in Article 13, which does not refer to citizenship, but to the establishment of a public energy and investment company for the Russian gas pipeline. I know that an agreement has been reached and that is where almost all Parliament's wings agree. I, as an economist, will say the opinion of the political ecology in Greece, the greens and the greens. I'll call it a mess. It could grow like a seed. It is possible that from the new gas pipeline from Russia, via Turkey, in Greece, there will be some economic benefits in the long term. Possibly! However, if we look at the issue somewhat more widely over time, we will see that these pipelines are contrary to the general concept of sustainability. These designs lead to even greater dependence on fossil or gaseous fuels and are contrary to general sustainability policy. If we look at these investments in the long term, we will appreciate that they are both negative from an ecological point of view, but also from an economic point of view. We are talking about gaseous fuels, where for years any public revenue will already be committed against the country's own participation in the initial capital. Is there a question: has there been a comparative study of whether there are other alternatives to energy planning, where public funds and loans would be more worth investing? The most crucial question has to do with what kind of productive reconstruction we want for the country. It is now not only the economists, but also the scientists and international organisations who warn that if we do not proceed to decisive steps to rehabilitate the minerals, we will have to live on an unrecognised planet. Not only have the Secretary-General of the United Nations recently expressed this position. At the same time, clean energy costs are falling rapidly. Only in the last decade has the cost of photovoltaic systems been reduced by 90%. Why not move on to our endowed sun and wind country in a clean, modern energy model that will protect nature, climate and public health and create tens of thousands of jobs, which will provide income to tens of thousands of households and will be clearly cheaper in time? The G7 meeting, looking at the issue macroeconomicly and economically, obviously, logically and not with the logic of global protection, is working on decommissioning projects from fossil fuels. Why is he working on such plans? Because they know that fossil and gaseous fuels are coming to an end. In a few decades, people will be looking for oil and natural gas in the ravines of the planet or the depths of the North Frozen Ocean to put on the tractors and cultivate the earth or the chemical industry. The energy model built in this logic, even from a narrow economic point of view, is doomed in the long term. If we add the data that our country has, because of its location and climate, ideal conditions for the development of renewable energy sources, I think that we should now change direction to our energy planning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. We should be promoting technologies for renewable energy sources, leading young scientists and research to make the construction of wind turbines and photovoltaics, as is done in other countries. We should encourage small and medium-sized investors, social cooperatives and private individuals to deal with renewable energy sources. I would expect initiatives for legislation and programmes to reduce energy consumption, for example, in buildings, transport and industry. We are waiting for a framework law on the general strategy and planning of energy policy with intensity on renewable energy sources and on the decommissioning of fossil fuels. As an economist, I have serious reservations about Article 13 of the bill. Because many are talking about sustainability and sustainability, but in practice steps in this direction are cowardly and inadequate. Large investments are made in fossil fuel plants, for example Ptolemaida 5 and now in pipelines. The construction of pipelines has a great environmental cost in areas that pass through and destroy productive land. We know the reactions to the TAP pipeline in northern Greece. So I do not see any change in the energy model so far. But I hope the Left, along with the Ecology, will slowly find the way to sustainability and sustainability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Deiaras. My colleague from SYRIZA, Helen Stamatakis, is called to Stepma. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we very much welcome the bill giving citizenship to children living in our country. This is a bill that, regardless of ideology and political position, the Greek Parliament must vote with the greatest possible consensus, as it concerns children who were born, studied and raised in Greece, children who have Greek education and culture, who join and play with our own children, who speak the same language and feel the same place as our home. These are the children who are and feel Greek. We are thus dealing with them and institutionally, giving them what they are entitled to, Greek citizenship. The aim of the Ministry was to create a law that could withstand time and be able to implement immediately, giving children what are fighting Greek citizenship. And it is an honour for democracy and for a rule of law today that the House should legislate on social acceptance, inclusion and equal rights for these children, who, while fulfilling all the conditions, lack such an important element of their identity. In particular, the children of the second generation are not immigrants, as they were born in our country and it was not their choice where they will be born, as is none of us. So they were born here and grow up here, like the children of the Greeks. That is why we must incorporate them into society, as these children are, but also want to be, citizens of this country. The Greek state and the legislature choose at this time and historic moment to give children citizenship by proposing and implementing steps towards the unity of the people and social cohesion. The bill contains arrangements that provide for the acquisition of the nationality of persons who are either minor or have been minor in Greece, namely: First, in the children of the second generation, born in Greece and one of the two parents has a legal five-year stay in the country, they have a permanent title and have been registered by their parents in the first grade. We have, in other words, both the combination of the desire for parental residence in the country and the decision taken by the children to take the Greek education. Secondly, the children who grow up and go to school in Greece, the so-called “hundred and a half generation”, where the child no longer acquires Greek citizenship after nine years of compulsory education or six years of high school. And thirdly, the graduates of Greek TEI and AEI who live in Greece. The legal residence in the country either of the parent of the child or of the applicant's own nationality and Greek education is therefore a predominant criterion which substantiates the genuine link between these people and the Greek society. There was no state in the European Union, which in fact since 2011 has been definitively unregulated since 2013 by law on the issues of child citizenship. And this legislative gap in which thousands of children fell in Greece created an unjust and unequal treatment under the responsibility of the parties to the previous conflict. The performance of citizenship will be lifted and solve a great many problems at the level of the daily living of these children, but also at the level of social cohesion to be ensured in a state. For example, I will mention that citizenship is the means to stop children from being invisible, to help them not to feel the attitude of foreigners, not to feel second-class citizens. It also supports them in improving and encouraging their more effective integration into the wider educational system, confronting the phenomena of school failure, leakage and illiteracy, but also their later course and life when they come out in society. It is characteristic that there are children today who, while meeting all the requirements, cannot exercise certain categories of professions, while their parents have been investing in their studies for many years and the Greek state is preparing scientists, who then cannot exploit. The interventions of the bodies in the parliamentary committee were sensible and often touching, as we were pleased to see representatives of various immigration organisations and communities and to hear in Parliament the voices of these people with whom, speaking in the same language, we had a common targeting, upgrading and depth of democracy and equality in this country, and even at a time when the memories of fascist and racist attacks are fresh. It is creepy in recent years that the outbreak of violence and the darkness that has shattered the democracy of this country. These came both from deliberate inertia in the legislative initiative from the previous coexistence and from the reproduction of a xenophobic racist political speech, a rhetoric that aimed at pointing at riot victims and invisible enemies to disorientate society from the real causes and the perpetrators of its impoverishment. But today that we are discussing the page and we are in the chapter of history where this people raised their heads high and honored its tradition by sending a clear message of democracy, dignity and freedom to Europe and to the whole world. The Greek people, in the week that passed, were terrified, threatened, blackmailed, when they had to leave the referendum unaffected, which is one of the most important means of exercising democracy. The opposition parties inside, in good cooperation with private channels, as well as the representatives of the institutions abroad, with constant interventions that afflict the democracy and independence of our state, have waged out an incredible war by misinforming and terrorising. But our people, taking many steps ahead of every prediction, have proudly opposed those who have tried to keep our head plucked and defended bravely against all threats, democracy in this place. In this country where the light of democracy has dissolved the darkness of recent years no human being has left behind. This country today opens its doors to its children for a full of hope tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, my colleague. There's Mr. Tasoulus, who I don't recognize on the benches. Has it been written to suggest one of you in the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u6	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u7	I would ask Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to come to Stepma from Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u8	If possible, Mr President, let us keep it up for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u9	Let Mr. Tsoulus be notified. It's his turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u11	Here, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, first. As we all know, the issue is citizenship and as we all know the great issue that we all eat is the negotiation and future of the country within or outside the euro. After five years, I will welcome the fact that there has at last been a minimal agreement of all political groups and I hope it is not too late and that it is not too little. I won't say anything else. I know we're all fighting. Going to the subject, I would like to begin by reminding people who have forgotten that we are talking about a people of migrants, ours, about a people who, from the dawn of their history, began to move, migrate and travel, not from Pythus Marseilles to the last Dome, but from much earlier. We are talking about a people who, in today's history, our generations, emigrated everywhere. Anyone who has gone to Toronto and has seen Greek Town, with two hundred and fifty thousand Greeks, most of whom are born here, knows it. We are a people producing political fugitives and refugees from the dawn of antiquity. Both. It was not just Tashkent in Greek history of political fugitives. Anyone who knows the history of the movements of the populations, the ancient and the middle - especially the second, the middle - history of Hellenism and the region, knows that the ideologies about blood, purity of the race, etc., are decayed, are sometimes funny, because they are supported by descendants of Arvanitads, Cappadocs, Turks, Greeks, however, 100% that no one has ever dared to question Greekness. Because Greekness is something deeper. It is not even the tradition of the new Greek state, intolerance and xenophobia. In fact, it is the creation of post-war extreme right-wing nationalism. This xenophobic, negative with foreign climates was created by the captains of A2, who came from the tangmatists - to say it all - in the period of the civil war, to justify the pursuit of communist hysteria, with the adjectives 'EAMobulgars', 'actors', etc. That didn't exist before. The neo-Greek state before that was an open state, which absorbed all the Greeks of the Balkans and the Middle East, on the basis of Hellenism and not of origin. That is what he has done and there are dozens of examples before the war. So it is these captains, who have become colonists, who have put us on the plaster, who have produced this ideology, which, ladies and gentlemen, are sorry, but unfortunately, is the same ideological and political background that you have been on these days with the unacceptable biased logic of the Germans, the 'practices', etc. As long as you get a text of the 1950s, delete the "EAMBulgaros" and put the "Germanchos". It is the same logic and political ideology, unfortunately. So as shareholders of such a culture and a tradition of such a tradition, a tradition of cosmopolitan, Hellenism has always been cosmopolitan. Since the dawn of his story he has grown to date, he has arrived where he arrived at all levels, if you want the imperialist still, being a cosmopolitan, being comparative, being a culture that absorbed ideologies, religions and people. He did it all over his story and did it well. That's why he got here. Anyone who doesn't believe me can read Paparigopoulos, not the "subtle" written by the "History of the Greek Nation" of the Athens Academy, which is suspected in my opinion. It is enough that Paparigopoulos, the man who founded the theory of the timelessness of Hellenism in a language so difficult that it has been translated into municipality. It's worth seeing. One would expect, with blood relatives in all the nations of the planet - why, do not be fooled, the Toronto engenders are first Canadians and then Greeks, so are the Americans and Melbourne - greater flexibility and more realism, less prejudice and less risky. Nevertheless, what we see is a sensible stir of the deck. We are not talking about migration flows or about the immigration problem, which is another issue. We are talking about Greeks, about people living and working here, who participate in the crisis with us and suffer from it. We are talking about people who have Greeks for their language, because they have studied them and why they want to be mostly this: first Greeks and then anything else. As I said before, some people first want to be Americans or Canadians and then Greeks. It is the same thing that we need to learn from both sides in the same way. So this confusion is from the wicked one. It actually hides what I said earlier, namely extreme nationalism. It hides these ideological positions of a far right, which marked the second half of the 20th century in Greece. And I don't think we can bring the civil war agenda back to the fore. Because that's what they're talking about, that's what they're trying to do, to resurrect national wisdom. On the other hand, and I say this to a number of colleagues in the House, neither for the sake of humanity nor for the sake of other 'Arlekin'-level tears, will you allow me, which I have heard last days, nor even for the sake of gratitude to some people who have offered the country. This is an emergency. Greece needs its immigrants, needs its hands, minds and backs, which are willing to work for the country, regardless of origin and regardless of origin. We need everyone if we want to get out of the crisis. We need anyone, wherever he is born and where he has started, if we want to build a new Greece, if we want, gentlemen on the right, to rebuild Greece that our ancestors have built. Because, as I said before, Greece was made by our ancestors, being open. I shall be brief, because I would like to comment on some of the amendments. I just want to say that this is a bill that for me is a little bit and that is my personal view. I would like something more drastic, easier, which allows easier access to the country, to citizenship and to Hellenism. Nevertheless, I think it is a bill that responds to the situation, solves problems and opens a large window against xenophobia and racism. And with that logic, it's a good bill. I hope that in future I will be able to vote for an even better one. But at this stage I am very happy to vote for this. I shall therefore go through these in the amendments. From what I hear and from what I hear before, tradition is not broken. The amendments must be unnecessarily out of time and tabled at the last minute. The same happened here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me two more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u13	Keep going, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u14	I will only refer to two, which have to do with hospitals and health, and which I think are very important, to go through without debate and error, as they usually go through. One is the termination of the hospital debts, this total repayment of any debt that the hospitals have generated over the last two years. It's a tradition, isn't it? When the government was in the opposition, it was shouting, and now the Couple and the others are shouting. Is this a tradition, which he says? I recognize and pay everything, without control, whether it's legal or not, because I won't look for it later, I pay it all. We don't know how much the money is. Mr. Health Minister made a big report yesterday. He didn't tell us how much the cigarette is. They are hundreds of millions of owed, which are thus covered. That's the way they always covered. And they covered up like this, because there's a huge administrative gap in hospitals. There is a tradition of maladministration - criminal, in my opinion - which cannot be managed transparently, rationally and rationally. Expenditure must be paid. Hospitals are at risk of being shut down, because suppliers are in danger of being closed down, having been involved in a public butchery, which is not paying for reasons relating to it. So, at first, it must be closed, except that no one knows, as the amendment has been tabled, nor what money we are talking about, no one will ever see whether, along with the greens, some of them will burn down, because the maladministration that is prevailing cannot rule out evil or non-legislative, which has been deliberately done. That's how it's all right. With this maintenance of this bourgeois tradition, everything is paid at the end of a symphony, the sense of impunity is maintained in all the administrative machinery of the Ministry of Health. It's a huge problem. Only Samos is 6.100,000 euros, which for special reasons is separately. The other hospitals are eighty - three, they are a hundred - twenty - five, essentially hospitals. You can make a simple calculation with your mind exponential to see how much it is. I repeat it's a huge hole. On the pretext that it relates to hospital budgets, the House has never learned - and it will not know more, although I formally ask for it from the Step - how much money is. It's hundreds of millions. The amendment is necessary in one respect. However, we shall vote 'no' for what I have said. It is necessary, because there is an administrative chaos which has nothing to do with the governors, who are traditionally party officials, without any assessment and without any control. It is necessary, too, because under these unacceptable executives there are also hospital administrations, which have huge gaps and huge weaknesses, which very logically when a man does not know what is happening to him, he does not know and correct them. I shall end only with the very difficult amendment, the next one for the governors, which confirms that the situation will continue and that after two years we will be voting for such a conclusion. The Minister dismisses all the managers of hospitals briefly with an amendment that has been tabled again in this House by Mr Kaklamani in 2004. It's not harmless. There is a court precedent from the previous case. Those who appealed took money. You know very well that it will be the same. To 'free' you - within introductory terms - by some, to actually appoint your own without criteria, without transparency, without any procedure, you will, ladies and gentlemen, bear in mind the public with some tens of millions of euros now, which you will give to people who will claim them and take them. There's no harm. There's a precedent. I repeat. In a phase, then, of Greece, where hospitals took EUR 500 million instead of EUR 90 million in the first half of the year, in a phase at which they end - says the press today - oncology medicine - ends, they no longer exist! - ambulances in health centers are real estate, because they are uninsured - EUR 300 in the quarter - that means 'insecure' - we are dealing with whether we are going to change and where the hospital managers are going to change. The Minister says that will be immediately. After two years, we'll bring in a good law and everything else. Nothing will bring. After two years, it will obviously change those with some others, in the same way, without assessment, without any criteria, with only a criterion for converting the "alpha status" to "pink status". That's the truth. It is a move of status, it is a move of old-fashioned party, which will produce the same result as the previous amendment: hundreds of millions, which will be called upon by the next House to vote without criteria, without control and without knowing what it is all about. This is precisely what will be produced by hospitals, which are consciously not actually run by people who are well-meaning - in the good scenario, because they are not all well-meaning or now they will be. Let the shotgun on the left, that since they're left, they'll be good. Statistically, there will be the same and worse, as many years ago, and they will do the same. Why? Because there is no transparency. You change the state by changing the institutions, by imposing transparency, by imposing dignity. You don't change it either with your soul or with your will or with the tradition of the Left. After all, the tradition of the Left in this country was the deepening of democracy. It wasn't the hood as it is now. It wasn't the appointments from the window, as it is now. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u15	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u16	I am really sorry - and I am ending with this, Mr President, and I thank you very much - because we will end up where we were before, doing a bloody cycle of five years, not only in hospitals, throughout the country, appointing people, who at best do not know the work, as we did with education, because something tells me that they will not be published in CV, as they have not been made public in the past. We will also see the CVs and Reactions of the local societies and the prefecture committees of SYRIZA, which have already provided samples of how the choices are made and what...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u17	Where did that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u18	Trikala. Ask Sakis to tell you. They filled the blogs. Sakis knows. It's written. Nobody's been looking for them. I don't want to go on because I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr Barriotta. Mr. Tasoulas is called in Stepma, followed by Mr. Zouraris, Mr. Danellis and Mrs. Karakosta. Here, Mr. Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, we are obviously discussing the bill to amend the Code of Greek Integration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u21	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u22	Obviously, at the same time, however, the country is in front of a critical crossroads and as much as it is not easy, when you live history, to understand it in its true dimension, but now in my eyes the case of that sad last emperor of France, Louis VI, who was executed as "Loudovik Capeto" and who was the depositor of distance from reality. It is known that on the day of Bastille, Louis VI wrote in his diary: "Krima, this day passed untrue. I couldn't make a single lock." This man had a hobby to make locks and he didn't realize what was going on. This is an extreme example of distance from reality. And because, at the moment, reality is historic in cubes, in our country, you will allow me - since I describe this bill as wrong, despite its amendments, and that it must obviously be preceded by the incorporation of citizenship - to resort to depressive reality and to express my opinion, as depressing reality dictates me. I believe that the Greek people and those who express them want the country to leave Europe and the Eurozone. It is the right of those who believe it and if that is a majority, I believe that this is the decision of the majority of the Greek people. However, if I dislike left-wing ideas more than my dissatisfaction with the left-wing ideas has a dissatisfaction with the methods of the left. Because at the moment we are facing a spooky development for the country, which is under a so-called negotiating cloak and supposedly a desire for an agreement. The well-meaning Greek citizen has been bombed for five months that the desire of the Government is to stay in the Eurozone. And it is shelled that there are easy solutions within the Eurozone. The referendum, which was, in my opinion, the second round of 25 January, confirmed that the suffering of the Memorandum outweighs bad predictions, because it is obviously stronger than a worse prediction. If you put the pomp and a worse prediction, it's obviously overpowering the pompism. I understand all that. What I do not understand is the tactics of the Prime Minister and the Government in such circumstances and before such a decision, which had been taken from the outset, not to tell the truth to the Greek people. I understand that after the disaster instead of benefits, they will give the Greek people guilty. I understand that this for a while will nourish the Greek people, because the Greek people have suffered and suffer much more, and the guilty will be an appropriate way of satisfying the spear of the Greek people from increasing their misery. What I do not understand and I urge you as a last call to understand is, when the catastrophe against the guilty ends and the demands for a better life begins, what you will say to the Greek people. Obviously the Prime Minister will be coming in the middle of the day denouncing the European Union, which does not respect the Greek people's opinion and will, in my opinion, ask for elections to manage the fact that our Europeans are persecuting and not the persecuting one. That's where everything will be played. There will play everything at geopolitical level, and there will crash not Tsipras with Meimarakis or Tsipras with anyone else, there will clash the experience of the memorandum with the advancement of bankruptcy, which will last a month. Another precursor that lasts a month and another five days' precursor. Because on purpose you caused only five days of preparation, because you knew very well that five days for good people may be also bluff, it may be a trick, it may also be something that has to do with a tougher deal. A month's bankruptcy prelude is a trick. And, unfortunately, you will have the Greek people to compare two experiences: the hard experience of the last five years and the advancement of a totalitarian and irreparable disaster, which has been as comfort for a period of six months, one year, the building of guilty persons and the punishment of guilty persons. But life will continue. And life will require corrections. And life will require breathing. Mr. Tsipras is politically dominant, for he is postponing his conflict with the only opponent, with whom he cannot be questioned. The adversary with which it cannot be measured is reality. This postpones conflict with reality. Five months was a continuous postponement. The referendum is an institutional deferral, a shift in reality. The fact that he will be coming tomorrow and will denounce Europe is a new postponement. The elections will be a new postponement. What, though, will happen when all of this is over and the country lies down and the conspiracy will match the frustration caused by the announcement of the defeat of the Athenians in the Holy Rivers, when Paralus came and announced it to the Athenians? Xenophon writes - forgive me, I will speak in a foreign language, in ancient Greek - the following: The conspiracy was spoken to Piraeus and heard in Athens. This conscientiousness will be heard, when the postponements are over, when the guilty are over, and when the people ask for no other postponement to improve their lives. Today, I am addressing my fellow Members with a different ideology, with an ideology which was demolished in the period of the Transition, because what has happened in the country today is abrupt of two things, the real hardship of the memorandum and irrationalism. The irrationalism, which leads to these results, was the irrationalism which was prepared not for five years but for thirty years. The prosecutor does a preliminary examination of the channels which defended the 'yes'. The channels defended "no" for thirty years the irrationality in the minds and souls of the Greeks. When they say 'yes' now, it might be too late. No prosecutor can investigate that. But I have the right to draw it from this Step. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Irresponsibility and hardship lead to a dangerous pervert. The experiences of the election period will collide with the experiences of the memorandum. Greece is on a crossroads. I hope that the pretext of total destruction will be defeated, this partial disaster which has taken place over the past five years. And I hope that in the end the upright Greece will lift up on the kneeling and not the kneeling kneeling down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. We invite Mr. Konstantinos Zouraris, Member of the Independent Greeks to the Step. Here, Mr Zouraris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr. President, my respects. Members and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my respects. Hey, Tashula, you told today's Chinese. I mean 'infection'. But he was very right, when you said about the difference between future hardship and today's experience. How does our guy say it in Chinese? "As a visual..." always - "always" is mine, it is not Skopje, Thucydides, because since it is from Macedonia, Skopje is - yes, therefore, "the garn people to me have the memory they had." I continue: those who are still not completely incomplete and obsolete must vote from Rule 1. g.2 and g.g.3, my Minister. Where are we going to be obedient in voting for the gg2 and the g3 of Article 1? Hereinafter two pillars of the major Greek and Ilidono-Romanian culture: Rapshodia in Odyssey, f. 17 and f. 18, in which he obediences gg2 and gg3.3. What does the mantle Odysseus say? "Double roads, not both, "that is to say this threshold here in the fields of both of us. And it uses the same word in Odyssey on page 18 as unchanged, the same word of our tragicity, of this great Iliadomy, why does it say - why does the manifold Odyssey say that you are a part of it? - "You put me as a punk as I am," that is, you seem to me to be a punk, just like me. A punk Odysseus, a punk. The Great Sabbath, what are we watching? The other great feat, for those who are not yet insurmountable. I'm sorry, they're uncomfortable. I'm losing it because of my age! "Give me this stranger, as a foreigner, to see death." Give me this stranger, who is a homosexual, Nikos and Alexandre, who hates him as a foreigner. "Give me this stranger, as a stranger, to see the stranger dead." The Sabbath sequence, Odyssey on page 17-18. Fifty years I've been a teacher. Only whoever hasn't put his foot in order - as a teacher I mean - doesn't understand what a child means. That's why I'm talking about g.g.2 and that's why I'm talking about g.g.3. What does that mean? A child at the nursery - who is badly excluded - in my view, but, anyway, we had to retreat to the Greeks - is neither right nor left nor central. A child in school, in the classroom, especially when he is six years old, seven years old, eight years old, nine, ten to fifteen, who is compulsory education, is neither Chinese nor Arvanitaki nor American nor German of course! What's the kid inside the classroom? The kid's a sanctuary. And suddenly you've been setting it up for six years or nine with the stigma of the miscarriage, by being stigmatized, because you're not like the rest. The class is a hug. Right now, the hug is Greek. If we took a kid here and took it to China, it would be a Chinese girl. Nothing understands the insurmountables? The kid when you bring it from China, what does he know, when he doesn't have another language, another place, another place, another report? He knows pie tzatziki with everything, he knows Rouva, with the wonderful Greek system, and if he is a scholar, he will probably know Tsitsani - if the child is a reason - and so the child, first, is sacred in class, second, what is it? Whatever the class does. For twenty years I was the link in Paris, the dialect, in any case, between the community of Vincennes and Saint-Denis, when the University of Paris VIII went there, because I was, of course, the only one - and as a gypsy industry, because I was completely black at that time because of age - foreigner and they put me there. So I was looking at this: the fourth generation and the fifth generation of Frenchy, because they had the mark of colonialism in France, the other part of the stigma, they had this hate slowly. If you want to have children in class and make them enemies, the best way for six years is not to tell them Greeks. The two provisions, moreover, say 'permanently and legally' to go ahead. Oh, time didn't pass. My respects!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Comrade, Achilles said that the son of Atreas treats me as an immigrant. He thought that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Zouraris. Mr Spyros Danellis from the river is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The lies are over. The Greek people realised last night that the dilemma is now clear and mono-modern and one-dimensional: either the euro and Europe or the drachma and the third world. At the same time, the Greek people became aware that the Prime Minister continues and insists on living in a parallel world of his own, because as good joy came out to say that everything is going well, he tabled excellent proposals, integrated, which were dealt with by everyone in the best way and we move on to the resolution of the drama and the exit. The whole of Europe's leaders, unfortunately for us, were in a completely different universe. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are discussing not only the present but also the future of the country and the Greek people, we are all called upon to stand up to the circumstances. The Prime Minister today, at the last minute and when we have been through what the pilots are saying 'no return point', has two options: The first option is to ignore the voices of the strong part of his party, making use of the national consensus and the national consensus that he has at his disposal, and painfully, but realisticly to lead the country to a step of stability and from there and beyond, or to complete this disastrous course of these five months, where they have completed and dramaticly escalating a catastrophic course of many decades, to lead the country into adventures and ruins, because he has no other option. The exit from European reality - and for many, this exit is deliberate and designed - leads to fatality in the creation of a enclosed authoritarian state, which will certainly cause what we have heard yesterday from the European leaders, that on Sunday the meeting of the leaders of the twenty-eight and not of the nineteen Eurozone - is now called upon to decide on these painful measures for Greece to leave the Union and prepare - because this is the depth of defence and the armour of the remaining twenty-seven. We have therefore listened with shame to the preparation of humanitarian aid for Greece. We have before us the last act of drama. Or - and I wish to think that it is still up to us, and I hope that this is not a bourgeoistic approach - we still have the margin for some hours to get out of the drama in a painful way, but manageable, or be in our sights, where I no longer want to think about what the Greek people expect. Now, with regard to the bill, for which we are discussing or should be discussing, it may not be of particular importance anymore, unfortunately. Because if we find ourselves out of European reality, then it is a little important to follow and be associated with European culture. Whether we like it or not, unfortunately, that's what it is, that's the reality. And even though we don't want to see it in the face, we're still in the spotlight and we're committed to ideologies and fantasies that will take us to another world that will save Greece and Europe, and we'll find ourselves elsewhere and elsewhere. So in relation to the bill, I want to say that while v. 3838/2010 there was a genuinely innovative law - and it was also one of the most progressive laws of a very troubled parliamentary period - unfortunately it did not have a good end, and it solved this great problem of the integration of European law into our national law and of dealing with a real problem with many dimensions. Unfortunately, it has strived to hide behind the decisions of the Council of State and while there were procedures with which the question of dealing with citizenship could be brought back to the legal order, we have now come to discuss self-evident matters and to try in ways, even late, to close an issue of this kind, which has to do with our culture beyond everything else. It must also be said that, with a fundamental view to what is happening at European level about the aging of the population, the question of the settlement of citizenship for the second generation of migrants is also crucial for the social cohesion of the Member States of the Union and for the smooth coexistence and solidarity of development. So it would be good to go over and try to escape today's situation, which is dominated by the great migratory pressures that we take as a country because of the wars that arouses our conflicted neighborhood. It would be nice to reflect on the positive role played by immigrants for our country, not in the distant past, but only yesterday, and to realise that they were very helpful to the economic preconditions, so as to achieve the goals of joining the eurozone, when it was common knowledge that the contributions of migrants were helping to keep the reserves of the insurance funds to relatively healthy levels, when we were forgetting that someone was not a champion in a sport and immediately ceased to care about the color, race, religion or his unusual name. So, over and above fearfulness, opening wider horizons and leaving hypocrisy aside, we can see why we have to deal differently with the issue of citizenship in the second generation of our immigrants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have no time to talk about what I wanted. I will only say a phrase about Article 13 and the establishment of the Public Energy Investment Company in a bill that has absolutely nothing to do with the issue of energy policy. We really do not understand the sloppiness and hypocrisy with which this article sticks to the rest of the bill, to which we should reserve a different approach. The vote against Article 13 from Potami is a given moment when without any special consultation with the relevant bodies in particular, with the PCC or the IPCC, the government, in a situation of absolute credit suffocation, commits EUR 1 million for the creation of another state-owned company, which we do not know if it now has both meaning and purpose. But we do not know, beyond the assistance of the communications it had at the time, before the visit of the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible in Moscow, whether it has anything to do with today. Of course, the energy toys that Russia devises, according to its own national interests, do not know whether they are toys that are of interest to us. And I hope that at the moment of shock - if we are aware of where we are today - the Prime Minister and, above all, the Minister, Mr Putin, have nothing to do with either Bresniev or his descendants. We're talking about another Russia, with which I don't know what we might have to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Ms Karakosta is called in Vima, followed by Athanasios Papadopoulos, Alexandros Hadjimitriou and Mr Triantafyllos Mitafidis. Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u29	Good morning to all colleagues. I have to say, of course, by listening to Zouraris, a friend for years, and by listening to Danellis, a friend for years now, that I have had some confusion as to whether the Greek culture of European culture has actually taken precedence and what we should follow. I, as a Greek woman, believe that we were ahead of ourselves as a culture at a very large level, that we have transferred our culture and given the name to Europe. So I am not saying that we should not get any positive elements, but rather that the culture of our Europeans, friend Spyros Danellis, should be preceded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u30	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u31	I, in fact, have understood the role of the Member as follows: a Member of Parliament, a Member of Parliament, must listen to the spirit, assess the level, the possibility of a people to move forward and vote for a bill. That's a piece. There is another role for a Member: to promote the thought of the Greek people and take it further. The truth is that while I am politically in the second case, we are not in this bill. We're in the first case. We follow the Greek people, why? Because today they grow up well or poorly foreign children next to our children. And it is not possible for the children we accept in our home as friends of our children to consider them different. It is true that as soon as I got a Member, the first visit that took place at my home probably felt it in the sense of the ruse, but listen to what was the point: a eighteen-year-old girl, the first student, with 19,3, to a Greek school in Piraeus, born in Albanian, born here, closed eighteen in June - the main minister knows why I bothered her back then - and wanted to declare military schools. And because he didn't have citizenship he couldn't give to the military schools. Do you think that's right? Do you think that's fair? We have followed the debate and consultation that has taken place on this bill and I have noted two names, which have sincerely made me cry - and I am possible in general, I am not easily crying. I will mention Michael Afolayan, a child black, dark, who explained how children grow up in Greece and what difficulties they find. After he explained all his psychology, he arrived at all his eighteen and said: “After that? Again I have to prove it to work, etc. Also, Sahnaz Goul, a girl who was born and raised here, said this amazing phrase and I would like to stress that it was all in greek, better than ours: "A man, through understanding and fertile dialogue, can reach virtue". Do you want more to hear from these children, to understand how necessary it is for us to be our citizens, to be Greek, and how much do Greek society have to increase this population, to integrate these people into our society? Do we consider the American idiots who built an entire country, accepting different peoples within them, and we, who want to be pioneers and civilised, instead of provoking them to come here, especially these children, to think about when we will give them citizenship? I think it is really disgraceful for us to discuss this. I would really like, as soon as the children in Greece are born, they are Greeks and we have to make sure that they want to be Greeks and support our country everywhere. I'm an architect. Honestly, I would like to say a thank you to the Albanians who built stone again in my country and led to Greek workshops for stone in Greece. We wouldn't have resurrected anything if we hadn't had the Albanians. These are data, which we need to know. We will not only talk about agriculture that has been exploited by thousands of people, without insurance, because we did not have a legislative framework and why we still do not have the courage to do so, to promote it. For example, there was a promotional law when we defined political marriage. Be careful, even now in the majority of them are religious. That's why this law was a promotional one. While now with the law, we are still going back, because society has accepted that foreign children born here, the "Greeks" born here with foreign parents are Greek. And we, a Greek Parliament, have not yet succeeded in realising it, and we are discussing it. It is a real problem if we think of those who have visited Syria, the Syrians we now welcome because of the war, that these people have kept Greek temples for years and show them to tourists and are fascinating about it, as are so many countries with Greek monuments. Instead, through this little that has passed them for Greece and admiration to this country, our country, given the crisis in their country, we should welcome them and make sure that we pass them Greek conscience, we are honestly discussing it? Since time is running out, I would like to reply again to Spyros Danellis and say to him that the last part of the establishment of this company for energy is also excellent and promotional for the development of this country. And we cannot be committed to European decisions for any development process that we are going on in our country, just by third-party decisions. We must have the power, we must be a country independent, we must dare, therefore, to go ahead with any development process. We choose and not third parties for us. I would like a minute, Mr President. I wouldn't want to get over my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u32	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u33	I have heard today on the radio, Mrs Spyraki, who is in favour of Greece, saying that the Greek people decided with the referendum against austerity. I would like to say to colleagues in the New Democracy, but also to Members of this House: why have they not been convinced that this referendum was not against Europe, but against austerity, and there is still anger in Europe and European leaders that we do not want Europe, and we simply do not want austerity? Let's think about all this and go further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Did you ask for the floor, Mr. Daniel? Did you ask for the floor, Mr. Zurari? Oh, no. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor, followed by Alexandros Hadjimitriou, Mr Triantafyllos Mitafidis and Mr Athanasios Davakis. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the articles of a draft law on the performance of Greek citizenship in children - second generation migrants who were born, raised, trained in Greece, who share the Greek education, feel Greeks, who raise the Greek flag in the parades, who go to the stadiums and cheer for the Greek nationality, who did not know any other homeland, who do not stand out from their peers, who must be given the right not to be regarded as foreigners in their company, even when they have a different colour, which we admire as Greeks when they become basketballists of a world reputation and then we have hypocrisy to other children with the same traits not to give them the right to be regarded as Greeks. We are also talking about adapting Greek legislation to European Parliament directives, incorporating two European Union directives, amending the Code of Migration and residence permits, but with the removal of injustices, family reunification and much more. We are discussing the draft law of a Ministry that succeeded a simple Immigration Directorate to defend human rights by adapting the Greek law on citizenship to the European acquis, but also by reminding the "previous" of the United Europe of their obligations towards the refugee, the migration problem that is a major European problem and not just a problem for Italy, Greece, Spain and Malta. In this historic period, at this time of the great historical decisions, of the great dilemmas, we need written samples about what Europe is, whether we can have the Europe of humanism, solidarity, rights, working culture, the upgrading of the quality of life of all the people of Elderly Epirus in the way in which the European idea has been approached, in order to become values of convergence, and not to interpret them all in the way that the 'previous's people are doing. On Sunday we will have everyone's writing samples, the writings of the President of the Commission, who last Monday at a press conference in front of all the peoples of Europe, spoke of the country of Plato that wants it in the first category of the United Europe, which makes proposals, which do not have any reductions in pensions, which accepts the right of her to deal with the problem of debt sustainability, to take steps to ensure that she can impose everything that will accumulate revenue, which will be subject to major reforms in the tax system, in the public administration. It is what we need to deal with organic inadequacies, to deal with what, in my opinion, the Greek Government will propose in the days ahead. In view of this challenge, I am absolutely certain that the Greek delegation, the Prime Minister, all those who participated in the negotiating group, will deliver a very specific text, which will have measures, directions, reforms, changes, which will address all the causes that led Greece to the explosive deficits, to a loan with tragic features, which has led to the accumulation of a debt with over lending, with a customer-based logic, with speculation on national defence, which could not be justified, with all the causes that led to overpricing, with all that led Greece to the great comparative advantages of being in this conflict. I think we can trust that the Greek delegation will also honour the people's mandate of 25 January by implementing the guidelines contained in the programme of productive, administrative, development reconstruction which we promised the Greek people, the commitments of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the verdict of the Greek people with its 'no' on an agreement with characteristics of perpetuating the memorial and permanent transformation of Greece into a debt colony and the historic issues ahead of us, which are before this government, for the tasks it has in front of us. Because we have all taken up the changes we have had to make in mass media, because their predecessors, their tycoons, have been causing them all this time with their behaviour, the changes we have to make to the administrative system of hospitals, the changes we have to make to working law, all the major issues that we have undertaken so far and we have to implement them and which I think should be the guidelines for the work we are called upon to do. So I think that the Greek delegation will come here to tell us that with a consciousness of its historical responsibilities it has led to the signing of an agreement, which will have all those ideological and political features that we want in this historic period. I would like to say, with this certainty, that, if the agreement comes to us, whatever disagreements we may have with individual provisions, it will have all that will allow for the relaunch of the economy and the reconstruction of our country. Because we know that it will be painful measures, it will not be the honest compromise we have claimed, because they want land and water, because they want the subjection of this country, but they are tested for exactly what they will do. I would like to say a few words, Mr President, on the subject of the amendment to which Mr Barriots asked what we would do with the administrative system of hospitals. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you have heard the characteristics of the proposal, which the Ministry of Health has put forward in the legislation. We have to say very clearly that we have delayed the change of hospital administrations in a period of explosive problems with departments, clinics that close, with very thick issues open to our islands, health services throughout Greece, with problems in their newspaper system. We must change administrations that signed Memorandum Efficiency Contracts. These contracts were signed. And we must choose on the criteria of another system of administration that will serve to restore the public health system, which will implement the major changes that we need to make to primary health care, with structures in the neighbourhoods and all that will upgrade the public health system, which will allow free access to public hospitals and uninsured hospitals, to the units of the HR and at the same time to gradually build a quality public health system. At the same time, these administrations must help to stop the corruption phenomena that continue to exist in the National Health System, the 'bags', the dispersion of public money. They must make the right evaluation for the hierarchy of expenditure, the savings of resources, the transition from privatisation and the contraction system, which is both costly, to public structures, and the right administrative relationship with human resources and the hospitals. I will conclude by: This provision is transitional for two years and commits us to draft a draft law to change the structure of the administration system and health and hospitals with participation and self-government, with a remarkable selection system for officials who have documented knowledge of health services organisation and administration. We will also be judged by the qualifications of the people we will choose from their attitude of life and behaviour and hope to honour the way in which they are assessed. We know that this system of administration is part of the great effort to upgrade the public health system to be qualitative and effective at this difficult time of the great needs of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou from Potami has the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Metafides, Davakis and Barbaroussis. Here you go, Mr. Hadjimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very lucky. Despite my luck, I would like to make a complaint: in fact, the Members of Parliament are unable to express our opinion in the way this House operates. That is what I imagine to be an expression of all the Members of this House. It is a good controversy for the parliamentary representatives, it is a good controversy between ministers and first-class officials, but we must also respect Members' time, because the bills are actually passed by parliamentarians. I think that this thing should be claimed, not as parties, but as parliamentarians as a whole, so that we can have our position and our time to express our views. This is where I stop. I'm continuing with the bill. Article 13 is simple. As we have pointed out since the first moment - and you know it even better, because you have played on this issue - gas and, more generally, energy management is a matter of national sovereignty. A private-law company may have the main shareholder of the Greek State, but has a seven-member board of directors that manages it for the next five years. First of all, it is not democratic to blackmail any next government and obligate it to accept or constantly conflict with the views of a board of directors that may differ, to be contrary to the views of the Government, the State and the Minister, who effectively manage 100% of the company's share capital. That is to say, as necessary and because gas management relates to issues of national sovereignty each time it must be in the hands of the relevant Minister and the government. So it's wrong. I will not sit down and discuss the issue of the seven new party officials who will probably find a job. I'll discuss the substance. I will speak and highlight and burn down the substance, which is about how to deal with politically, every time the issue of any management concerns the crossing of gas pipelines from the country. This should be clearly in the Ministry's hands, and then establish any company or create any state participation in any company. As far as the amendment on health is concerned, I am really congratulating you as a young man! I have too many friends who, when you got out of government, having the relevant degrees - have finished economists, have finished business administration and have done their postgraduate studies on the management of hospitals, health establishments - people were expecting something to change in this country. What did you do? That is why you really deserve congratulations. You didn't do what New Democracy and PASOK did. You did not set up an evaluation committee, an evaluation committee. You didn't get into this process, to say falsely that you're choosing the best and most worthy. You come directly, with cynical honesty and say "we will put our own people, because they will exercise SYRIZA's policy". Health doesn't want SYRIZA's policy. The health wants Greeks' policy and the first thing you should do as the left government was to create an objective form of evaluation. At least, even SYRIZA should have been the government's, you should have said they should be economists, that they should come from the Business Administration, from the relevant schools, and have the postgraduate or special knowledge of the management of health units. You know exactly what's gonna happen. Don't hide behind your finger. Most of you already have a problem with this amendment. It is certain that a party army once again will stand within the administrative councils and the message you will give to the children who study and receive specific qualifications and follow specific roads are "do not study free Health Units Management, do not do this wrong. Come to SYRIZA, come to the river, come to the New Democracy and tomorrow, your hour may come.” We are now coming to the basic bill, which is the bill of citizenship. Once again, in these very critical circumstances, we are called upon to discuss citizenship, energy, health, perhaps the most important things that are agitating and employing the place. We understand this - and I think you all understand that - as far as the bills are concerned, if we go to this style and in that form. It's in the right direction, you bravely try to touch it. We'll agree with that. I disagree with Article 1a. I think that despite what is said about Greek education, because there has been an achtama and this Greek education in general, some objective criteria should lead to the process of acquisition or non-nationality. As you can see, the world is evolving. We should be deeply democrats and humanists. But humanity and democracy must not be exhausted within strict ideological criteria. Where do I want to end up? You all realize that population movements from now on are continuous, we will constantly find them in front of us. No one will change and probably from these people no one will go only to one country, can go to five countries, six countries. Now that Greece is in crisis, many have already started and left the country. Therefore, in order to really deal with the problem as democrats and as humanists, we must not attract anyone in need. In other words, we have to understand that the other thing is naturalization and citizenship, which has to come from the very beginning. In the first second that someone hits his foot in our country, he should be naturalized, recorded as a Greek national, given the opportunity for a year to look for work and then see if we can keep him or send him away. But the one who comes and will find a job, the one who comes and gets a VAT and opens up a shop or the child who will be born in the country from the very first moment will have to be a Greek national, so that we can control it. But citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, is something different. And we cannot come every year, every two years, every time the government changes and discuss what will happen with the issue of citizenship. Potami also made this a medium-sized proposal for Article 1 (a), and we asked for something simple: To have an objective criterion, the objective criterion at least of the knowledge of the Greek education of the first degree, which, if anything, covers - these six years covers - the certainty of language knowledge. Imagine what's going to happen now. With Article 1a we will give citizenship to children who were simply written in grade 1 and because of economic crisis their parents will definitely leave the country because they will not be able to find a job. These people wanted citizenship. You know, when we talked about it in committee, I asked all Immigration Bodies: “What do you want? Do you want to be Greek native? You want to go home tomorrow? Do you want to go and serve the Greek army? Do you want to be civil servants?’ I was told 'no, we want to live with dignity in the country'. And dignity, if we want it to be right, is given from the first moment someone hits their foot in a country. We make them decent in naturalization to the Greeks and give the Greek citizenship. With citizenship, we are once again entering adventures of nationalism. It is easy to forget democracy and humanism, and we will start to beat ourselves off for something that we need to start and try to clear up. You know, there is the bad neoliberal Europe, the bad capitalist America, the bad capitalist Canada, the bad capitalist Australia, but the problems of immigration are only created in these countries. We all realize that the world is changing. No one goes to good democratic Cuba, to good liberal - I do not know how they characterize it - or to good democratic Brazil and to good progressive Argentina. You see that in Europe and America, which we are in general as a European and Western civilisation, the biggest issue arises. Why? Because for some reason there is growth here. It's what we're risking now in the way of our behavior. Don't even make one wrong bite. We may at the moment not be able to deal with and solve the issue of citizenship and citizenship 100%. But we must, ladies and gentlemen, in the Code of Nationality which comes - and I am ending this, and I would really like us to have a great deal of time to discuss this - a number of issues that really and truly look at and try to deal with them permanently and together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. The honourable Member, Mr Mitafidis, has the floor and Mr Davakis, Mr Barbarousis and Mr Yannis Kefaliannis are here. Here, Mr. Mitafidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u39	Dear and dear colleagues and colleagues, the opposition is still lost in translating the result of the referendum. He insists on the previous referendum. Because the message sent by the Greek people is well known and they understood it at all lengths and backs of the earth. Krugman says the Greeks voted 'no' to misery. Is it hard to understand? See also the social composition of 'no'. I do not want you to collect it personally, but a farmer said: 'The full ones voted 'yes' and the hungry 'no'. I would like to say to you that this 'crazy' - to use an expression of Elytis - what moves unorthodoxly, climbing the mountains, is a source of inspiration for the millions - and I am not saying it for our comfort - which is in every European country and is in the same situation as us. Because there is no Europe. There are two Europes. And we have never said that this Europe, as it was built, corresponds to our vision, to its struggles and its best traditions. That it did not become the common home of the peoples of Europe, from the Atlantic to the Urals as the labour movement dreamed about. So what are you blaming us for? I want to come to the bill. We have said from the outset that what we are legislating does not correspond to what we would like. I also told the committee responsible that yesterday, Mr Socrates Famelos mentioned in the Troizina Constitution, that if we wanted to legislate and solve our hands, rather than this unacceptable decision of the Council of State which restores the logic of 'blood' - we would speak about it - we would simply change the original language of the first Greek constitution of 1822, the 'Provisional State of Epidaurus', which says: 'The administration would like to issue a later law on the naturalization of foreigners, those who wish to become Greeks'. That's what he says. And we'd be done, and we wouldn't get into this alley. Because you know very well that the genes of our Left are polychrome. To us the difference is wealth. Previously, Ms. Karkasta reminded us that the Americans call their society - the one with the heavy racist past and present - melting pot, that is, crusader, where the most different cultures and people can mix through this colorfulness to develop their capabilities. And I want to tell you, because for many years I have served in education, that I have written hundreds of dismissals with only the name of the children. So when it was time for me to fill out the place of origin, many times my children were looking at me in the wilderness - especially what was coming, unfortunately, from the broken multinational society of the Soviet Union, with all its negative effects, but also with its prerogatives - and many of my responses were spontaneously 'Greece'. Because, as the people say, "where you live there you are stepping on." I would ask this here for the etymologists of national purity to explain to me what the Greek roots of a series of attacks such as Albanian, Arvanite, German, Arapis, Syros, Bulgarian, French, Romanos, Sicily, Paris, Hungarian, Czechoslos, Vivro, Chitsanis as well as my name? I would also like to remind them of the "cutters" of national purity that one of the protagonists of Greek independence, Markos Botsaris, was not even speaking Greek. In fact, his prosperous soliotic familia sent him to learn letters in the Ionian Islands and even compiled an Albanian Greek dictionary. I would like from this position to honour all those colleagues and all those fellow teachers who have spent years fighting - and indeed many times they have been dragged to police stations - for 'promoting illegal immigration', please, in order to protect their students from expulsion. Because apart from the young children, we had older children. To honor all those colleagues who set up intercultural schools, the Roma schools. To honor a school symbol here in Athens, in 132nd Municipal School, which - listen - was dragged down by its teachers and directors in the courts, because, please, in the morning the children instead of "our Father" ordered a poem by Yiannis Ritsos, who united them beyond religions and differences or because they had granted a room to teach the mother tongue of the students. If we wanted to legislate on our own policy, it could be signed - not for reasons of cosmopolitanism, but because that is how humanity exists - with only a title: 'the school without frontiers'. I would recommend that you read the excellent homotistic version that he has received and the first prize from the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. It is published at no time by the Federation of Middle Learning Officers, OLEME. As I would also recommend you to read the excellent book "For a Democratic School", published by the teachers of the 132nd Primary School. I want to close with something not as a Member of SYRIZA but as a representative of the Municipality of Thessaloniki on the Network of Testimonials and Cities 1941-1945. I had tabled - late - an amendment - supplementing the so-called 'law of Castanides', n. 4018/2011, which gave the right, after so many years, to the offspring of Holocaust victims to acquire Greek citizenship, because they had been deprived of it. Unfortunately, as you know, the pandemic time has forbidden many of them, because it has only given the right to those who were alive to submit this request. I would like, Minister - I do not know if you will do this with a ministerial circular or with the next bill on citizenship - to include this and I would ask you to pay close attention to it. I'm reading it to you. It is a request from the Municipality of Thessaloniki and the Israeli community: "In citizens of Israel as well as to Israelites of any other country born until 9 May 1945..." - the day of the captivity of Nazi Germany - "... and they are still alive, Greek citizenship is again granted, since they have had Greek citizenship since birth and have lost it in any way". Moreover, ‘this right also applies to the descendants of those described above, even if those who had not recovered Greek citizenship because of death’. I think we owe it to the Holocaust victims' offspring. It will, of course, also be a steadfast response to those who still refuse total crime against humanity, which was the Holocaust. I'm putting it down for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. With the understanding of Mr Davakis and Mr Barbaroussis, I will give the floor for a minute to the Minister for Social Security to make a number of amendments. If the gentlemen agree, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I am going to talk about two parliamentary amendments which are my responsibility. One has already been accepted by the Minister and I thank her very much. It is the amendment with a general number of 224 and a special 71, and it concerns matters of supplementary occupational insurance funds. It is an amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Yiannis Stathas, because from the experience of his participation in the trade union movement - he is still active - he is President of the Livadeas Labour Centre - he is obviously aware - and you know it very well from your excellent knowledge of the social security area - that these funds have created a very big problem with the so-called'structured bonds' that they bought in the period 2007-2008. Those who bought them know that they have even been punished for ten and twelve years in prison. However, these bonds have remained in the insurance fund portfolio and if, Mr President, they are valued at current value, you know that they are old paper, it is zero, which means destruction of the insurance funds. In this sense, Mr Stathas - and quite rightly so - proposes that we include them in the existing exceptions. The rule by the Securities and Exchange Committee is that bonds are valued at current value. But it has some exceptions. In these exceptions, Mr Statha suggests that these bonds should also be entered. I think it's a good solution. The Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mr Romanos, and the Securities and Exchange Committee have spoken and have no objections. It's a good solution. It is just my prerequisite, Mr President - and you would have, if you were me - that these bonds should not be broken by 2027, because if they are broken before they are broken, they will take zero and they will go not ten and twelve years in prison, any administration that pursues it, but they will go to prison for a thousand years if the people insured send them to the prosecutor. On condition that these bonds are not broken, they are not redeemed, I am absolutely positive, and I think the amendment is very helpful to these insurance funds. So I, as a competent Minister, accept it and, as I said, thank the Minister. Secondly, it has been submitted - and this is why the Minister has asked me to come - a very interesting amendment, my own competence, by many Members of the Communist Party of Greece, firstly by signing Mr Katsokatis Christos, who are proposing to have the possibility of the current contribution - paid, from what you know, Mr President, every six months in the OGA, in connection with contributions from the second semester of 2014 - to include it in the arrangement for the debts owed to OGA insurance funds, farmers and farmers. I've already spoken in the morning with the OGA command. We can't accept it today because it wants a treatment. However, a first commitment I have, since the Governor of the OGA before expressing his assent, is that we will bring this issue, but after a treatment by the competent body, the administration of the OGA, and once the current regulation has expired. Mr President, you know very well that, when we have a 'run' arrangement and some debtors have arranged in a different way, it is not right for many reasons in the meantime to do something different. On 31 July this regulation expires, and until then we will be ready, we believe, to respond to the content of this amendment. For formal reasons, therefore, because we are not yet ready and because we have the current regulation, the amendment is not accepted. We are, however, committed, in substance, to working towards giving a similar solution or the same thing as the amendment says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is at these moments in the middle of a furnace. We are in the middle of a furnace, which no one knows what results it will have. One thing is certain, this furnace will burn everyone when we get to the point where we will now have exceeded the edge of the cliff. Nevertheless, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government continues the same tactic, the same old-fashioned tactic as you say, and a bankrupt political regime. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Mr Voutsis had spoken a few days ago about a new worthy morality in our political life and the recently retired Mr. Army has just tabled two - three unjustified and late amendments in this Chamber. A farce is heard in all of us by the speeches made by the President when she said - and I do not hide from you that I believe she meant them and believed them when she said them - in her opening speech that they will no longer come to this Chamber in delay and unnecessarily with the draft amendments. We continue the same old practice. It is sad, ladies and gentlemen. And it is regrettable that Mr Mitafidis, like other honourable Members in this Chamber, has once again brought examples of division and attitude in this Chamber. And we love them all, Mr Mitafidis, and those who have been here for many years, foreigners, and those who live mainly in this country and for whom we must talk at some point. Do not underestimate the feelings of the Greek people. The Greek people are not expecting us here, in this Chamber, to speak with gratitude for the immigrants, for whom we are dealing with issues of citizenship today. The Greek people alone, the good elements of these people, who are weak, afflicted, have come to this place twenty years ago, have accepted them, embraced them, works with them, strengthens them financially. How does a country in bankruptcy, like our country, maintain more than one million foreigners? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u44	Like in Manolada...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u45	Oh, my God! That Manolada!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u46	And down in Laconia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u47	Ma'am, listen to something. I know that the various ethnic or racist slogans embodies embodied in spaces that make them a full-fledged policy. The reality we have to see. The reality is that today the Greek of the countryside and the urban centres are living with those who can live in this place. And I think that, despite the various objections we have and are well founded, the Government is able to regulate this issue. The point, however, is that we are dealing with a state machine, which has opaque, pathogens, it has corruption and it should first be regulated. I have been in this Chamber for several years, Minister, there have been several bills and, unfortunately, we often bring up these bills on the problems that have not been solved. I think that the acquisition of Greek citizenship is a concept of result to a man who wants to live with that nationality. But do not underestimate their own nationalist feelings, because the ethnic identity of an Albanian, a Bulgarian, a Romanian, any other, we must also protect it, we must give it a meaning. Because many of them may use Greek citizenship as a flag of opportunity for other issues. These are issues that should concern us. Ladies and gentlemen, at first I said that the European Parliament is talking about our country today and I believe that the objection of many wings in this Chamber should be upheld yesterday to postpone the debate on the bill. In any case, it was not accepted, given the circumstances. The Greek Prime Minister and we are talking about a matter, not a minor issue, but at any rate, one which should concern us in another time. I wanted, therefore, to refer to the barbarity of the amendments and the shamefulness of yesterday's presentation of Mr Xanthos' Deputy Minister for Health on the one hand to stop existing hospital administrators from tampering with an amendment. There is no doubt that the procedure chosen for the appointment of hospital managers to the previous government was, if you like, suffering, despite the existence of the AACC. Despite the existence of a formal procedure, there were issues. People were indeed appointed, without any other evaluation process. There's no doubt about it. I'm telling you personally. Most of these people, however, have now given their souls with a lot of qualifications, with great willingness to help, with all the things that make up a good public servant. Mr Vice-President said that they pose problems, that they are, I would say, consular situations that are not in line with the service. There are the disciplinary measures in place to remove them. Why does it refer to this procedure and this amendment in such a way? Let it be clear - the masks fall once again - 'We want to put our party executives in. We want to put those who put back on SYRIZA, who were stuck with posters, that is, the well-known one before the old political regime, which you have sent it to the margin of history. However, three, two, a distribution of the former was reported. Can I tell you today's percentages? How many general secretaries of the Independent Greeks are in the Ministries? The SYRIZA colleagues must know them. The share of power loots continues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So this transitional arrangement of a announced new model of health is both hypocritical and unacceptable for what our place is going through. Greece is lost and we appoint new hospital managers. Mr Xanthos said that these outgoings - and the amendment mentions it - cannot respond, because of lack of exercise - to say - to their duties. These are terrible things, Mr President! These people will appeal to the courts. Is Mr. Xanthos gonna pay out of his property the compensation they ask for? Mr. Xanthos makes both the modernist and the old-fashioned party, closing the eye in the party clientele. "In part national, partly Christian," as Kavafi says. So this has to be over. It's funny last night to discuss appointments of hospital managers, when we don't know if there will be Greece in one day. And these splittings, which you are saying, must not be directed at us, because we have the concept of homeland that is higher, much higher than our party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u48	Mr Colleagues, you will conclude, because there are other colleagues who are to speak. Respect everyone's right to speak on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. I would therefore say - and I conclude, Mr President - that those who have the courage to teach a lesson of democracy and well-being on the issues of administration and all those who make up today must, on their own and with their own personal example, be clean. And unfortunately - I am sorry to say this - you are continuing to do the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr Davaki. Mr Constantine Barbarousis has the floor on behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Mr. Barbaroussi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute? Excuse me, Mr. Barbaroussi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u52	Wait a minute, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, I'll give you the floor after I make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Summer Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and students and four teachers attendants from the 5th and 15th High School of Peristeri. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, you have the floor, and then Mr Barbarousse follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u53	I take the floor for a minute, to refer to a piece of legislation. In paragraph 10 of the 172/65 Ministerial Amendment, which is for the transport of refugees to the islands, the words ‘regions’ which are at the beginning of the paragraph are deleted and replaced by ‘Regions’ for the transport of refugees within the islands’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Barbarousis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the negotiation of an Aesopus myth that has become and sings, he says: "All solutions are fine and fine at the time, when they are possible. But if you don't have any guts to apply them, let it go, at all, don't say them." Finally, the "first time left" after the tough negotiations with the institutions and after the "no" of the Greek people turned it into "yes" and after you solved all the problems of the Greeks, you also said to continue the "neutral plan" for citizenship. Don't lose! Because it is imperative to solve the problems of Pakistani, Afghan and Zulu. Come on, and the next president of this House is Sakah with a bone in his head! So, in its patriotic duty, the Left of what it has not done in the past, namely to give Macedonia to the Slavs and the Bulgarians and the continent to the Albanians and to Hoja, is doing it today. It gives the country of the Greeks to the Asians and the Africans. Of course, that is why you are all responsible, and you of the Independent Greeks who say you will not vote for the bill. If you did have red lines, you'd leave the government and throw it. Just stuff! What if the Greeks are forced to leave abroad, what if they commit suicide, what if they cannot have children, because they are financially impoverished, the "first time left" has the solution in the pocket: you will replace them with Pakistanis, Afghans and Nigerians who will be your only voters in the future. Recently I read a slogan written by some of your comrades in a wall: "We live in a very beautiful place. The only evil is that it has many Greeks." That's patriotism in all his majesty! However, I expected to see more progressive things in this bill. You're doing half the jobs. For example, you could confiscate the homes of the Greeks because you would not have to pay the HNVIA you did not abolish, as you said, to give them a new start in the homeland of their dreams in Disneyland of Europe! Also, you could take the fields from the Greek farmers to give them to the young "Greek" to cultivate papayas and other tropical fruits that they had in their homelands. You could still confiscate cars from the Greeks who don't have to repay their loans, give them to those who are both multiples and need them more. Also, since summer seems to be very warm, it would be nice for your Ministry to arrange for that too. Take out a small enclosure and share some sunscreen in the Omonia for those muzzlers that are melting. Finally, gentlemen of the Left, you will not stay in history or in the shading of the memorials, because you have also torn up like Samaras and nothing else. For all you're going to stay in history is about this purely treacherous and disgraceful bill, a bill that's worse than the memorials and any agreements you make with the institutions, as you used to say to them lately. This bill, first of all, proves superstitiously that what you told us a few years ago, namely that immigrants have been coming here for some time, making some money and then going back to their homelands. The truth is, they come and settle here permanently. Secondly, it shows that immigration is not about moving a small number of people, but about moving entire peoples, who cannot be assimilated from European countries. It is quite different to give Greek citizenship to some individual foreigners and to install new peoples with the Greeks. The Greek Constitution clearly and explicitly states that we must legislate for the good of the Greeks and not for the good of all the peoples of the world. And I ask you: Where does this bill serve the Greeks? It is incomprehensible when Greeks are getting out of their minds, that children faint in school from hunger and that we do not know what dawns on us tomorrow, that we gather here today, as if we solved all the other problems, and legislate for the good of foreigners who illegally enter our homeland. They came here, we gave them free health, something the Greeks don't have, we took care of them, we took care of them, but we don't make them Greek. That's a lot, I think. There is no man whose father, his mother, his grandfather, his grandmother and all his sorrow are from Pakistan to be Greek because he was born in Greece and because he was simply written in a Greek school. There are many cases of people who have acquired Greek citizenship in recent years under more difficult conditions, who have not only acquired Greek consciousness, but are also hostile to our country. We have many examples. Here we have a recent example of Albanian origin people who serve the Greek Army uploading on facebook photos symbolizing the Albanian eagle with their hands. My other competitors referred to this issue. I put it in the Minutes, too, if you understand the seriousness of the situation. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Barbarousis, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Indeed, if, in a non-genus, we have a conflict with Albania, since they dream of the great Albania and the borders to Antirio, on whose side they, gentlemen of the Left and of the progress and of the other 'democratic' forces? John Kapodistrias said: "The victory will be ours if he reigns in our hearts only the Greek. The friend of the strangers is a traitor". Of course, what can the Capodist tell you now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u56	They fought against...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Manier, leave Mr. Barbarousse alone. That's what he thinks. That's what man says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u58	In ancient times the barbarians attacked Greece by boats and Army, today there is no need for any of this, because today you yourselves are caring through the House and this bill to open the ferry to the abundance of our country. But we, the Golden Dawn, the last believers, the last defenders of Greece will be here, and when this bill is given the opportunity we will tear it straight by a move, as the competitor Christos Poppas did very well in his last speech. And along with this disgraceful bill, we're gonna tear the memorials and all that you said you were gonna tear up and eventually you didn't do anything. We with all our powers will strive for Greece to be a country that will be inhabited by Greeks and not a country once inhabited by Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u59	Mr Timoleon Kospalis has the floor, who is absent. Mrs. Anna Vagey too. Mr. Kritsotakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that this is a very important bill that we are voting on today. Because, apart from its humanitarian nature, it is also a need that must be solved in our country, even in this way. Because it should be solved in a very different way and the changes that should be voted on, institutionalised and implemented are even more profound. But there's also the juncture and you understand what's going on. However, one cannot be tempted to say that all this is happening in a climate that creates all these situations that we are experiencing today. I would say not only about the referendum and its next day, but above all about the fact that in the last 40 years of post-multi-population, the part of the Greek crisis was created with the leading role of the parties to the bi-partyism of that time, which, after having put the problem and loaded it into the Greek economy and economy, came six years ago as the arsonists who set the fire to play the role of the fireman and bring the country where they brought it. And today they dare the referendum and call for 'yes' to bring back these policies, those which were literally kicked by the Greek people in the January elections, by the keyhole and fool the Greek people. I think 61.3% was a strong and powerful answer. But I see that - as if it were not one day since their election campaign on 'yes' - the channels are trying to cancel the people's 'no', either by distorting its meaning or by turning it back into 'yes' again. They present the 'no' world of 61.3% as if it did not know what it was voting for and smash the words of lenders, translating the clear popular mandate given for the second time to the government not to retreat to the extreme and deadlock, I say, austerity. We have today seen a little amazed the debate that is taking place 'in Europe', where we have heard talks about the Adonian style of Georgia, in a European Parliament which decides but its decisions are not enforceable. Because the democratic deficit in Europe is a great one, and what we are experiencing today in both the previous negotiation and the one that is taking place today with the lenders in the face of it, I think it is a good thing why Europe cannot go ahead, because it has an economic, social and lasting political problem and why this has to change. If we do not manage to bend their opposition to them, who do not want a small country and with a left-wing government to be the example for the peoples of Europe, then we are told that we are deadlocked. I will say that it has not yet been invented and will never invent the charming one that erases peoples, nations and states from the map. And in democracy there are no dead ends. So we will find what needs and what needs to be done. Greece, not with nationalist krone, but with the power of its people, with what is qualified but with its weaknesses, will progress! I would like to say that this bill, unfortunately, is degrading the reality and events of the days, because it should be dealt with differently from the channels, but it has literally been buried. I think it is very important and it demonstrates that the government remains in line with its electoral and programme commitments, despite obstacles and triples, and on the other hand that this government has the real political will and the value of being able to legislate, even at these times. It gives central battles and certain issues that seem to be not central, but they are human. And we must keep our humanism and our humanity, as ordinary people say in our homeland, so that we can move forward. I, as President of the Commission, have seen the bill, and I would like to tell you that I have perhaps followed it more than anyone else, even if it is compulsory. What I have to say is that the overall process was very different from that with which some opposition parties - not to say the whole of opposition - wanted to deal with the issue politically. A very important element was the consultation of bodies at the special meeting with non-parliamentary bodies and actors. That seemed to be the reality, the truth and the dimension that society has from at least one part of the Greek political scene. I will say that it is a matter of political will and it is not a matter of competence. Abilityal people are unable to understand why they don't want to, why this bill is necessary. They want to let the problem not be solved and we cannot finally resist this policy that Europe has, because they are some who claim that Europe does not have a immigration policy. It has a policy, except that this policy does not deal with it. It uses countries that are on Europe's borders as soul storehouses and hides the problem under the carpet. I'll make two remarks here. This Europe that cannot deal with this problem is not another proof that it has a deficit of democracy? I will say a second: in relation to what Europe is going on, because there are people here in Greece - who write it down and do it, and 'yes', while also making disgraceful against democracy and ethics, and using the media not for information, but for misinterpretation - who have not come to be identified with the European acquis behind things, nor with that? I would also like to say that there are certain points in the bill that I think are very basic. We recognise two basic conditions for citizenship, not arbitrarily selecting them among others, but under political criteria. These are, on the one hand, the legal residence in the country either of the parent or of the applicant himself, on the other hand, the foundation of the integration of any child, regardless of origin, into society and as the beginning of the creation of genuine institutions and links with the Greek society itself. These are, dear and dear colleagues and colleagues, the political conditions for granting citizenship, not whether a new child will bring an Olympic medal or fight in the NBA, which is for some of the criteria. Let them stay with their criteria, but let them open their eyes a little and leave their sensitivity a little bit. Indeed, some people don't have papers, but I know from the Greek people saying it's a man who gave birth to a mother, not the one who has papers. And there are people who have papers, but they are less people - and I will dare say - and less Greek than others. As far as work is concerned, I think it is the criterion here. I would like the last word to be to the Minister. Minister, take special care of yourself, because this bill is not the end. I think it's the beginning. In the next bills, we must have provisions and legislation that also take care of work, because it is not only about having the papers, it is also about having the democratic freedoms and the rights that, unfortunately, do not even have the Greeks. Greeks and foreign workers must have them together. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kritsotakis. Mrs Haitani has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are talking about a multiplicity of times in this Parliament about the indiscriminate right of citizens to be clear about their relationship with the state in which they live - and in this case, these citizens are children - a right - the result of mass struggles for democratic freedoms from the establishment of states, from the defeat of the absolute monarchy and the citizens of the king in civil democracy to be protected only from the Constitution, from 1947 depriving the Greek citizenship of fifty thousand rebels and left-wing activists as persons of anti-national activity, which fell in 1985, since 1955 with the infamiliar article 19 - is a gant number in 19 - with which sixty thousand minorities in Thrace cease to be Greek citizens and which is abolished in 1998 after the international outcry, from the first time the Ragorasmus is coming to the law and is a dark past. This law gave children the right to citizenship, opened the way for naturalisation of adults, gave the right to vote and stand for election, and forced the state to justify its negative decisions. The Right in all its appearances - the LAOS at that time, the Golden Dawn after and of course the New Democracy - reacted with general uprising and with a decision of the Board the bill - a bill - hope for thousands of immigrants - fell as unconstitutional. For the elite of this country citizenship has always been a weapon of division and nullification of its dangerous enemies, and in this light we must always see these bills. Even the Ragosi law, which arranged a piece of embedded immigrants, did not seek democracy, since this was a bill of discrimination and permanent exceptions. It was, in fact, seeking to extend its power, at a time when democratic rights were being curtailed in order to impose the memorials and, because it was not enough for legislation, racism was attacked, fascist structures were strengthened, it was necessary to suppress the police, and today Islamophobia is being eroded. In the face of the black reaction block, the government's initiative to restore citizenship bill, even in the form of amendments to the previous law. It forgets, however, civil rights, discrimination and bureaucracy, Madam Minister, it insists on successful schooling and not just on schooling, a class measure, a measure that hits the poorest migrant children, who have studied, but have not succeeded or taken the way of work to feed their family. And all this so that we don't conflict with the vast majority of the U.N.A. But who guarantees us that it will not disappear again after the appeal that has already been announced by the Golden Dawn, namely New Democracy, so that we will not be hiding? Ladies and gentlemen, the only guarantee that there will be all of this, in order not to pass away, is the mass struggles of the workers and people's classes with their class brothers, who came chased by the wars and poverty that the rich Western world has imposed, the mass resistance against the memoranda, the austerity policy that the European elite wants to impose throughout Europe, and also the massive resistance against racism and fascism that divides workers into Greek and foreign, and undermines the future of the Left, the only hope of the populace. The scanning victory of "no" by the unemployed, poor workers and youth showed their determination to support the government in its programme, despite the closure of the banks, the intimidation of mass redundancies, the asynchronous propaganda, which was talking about hunger, a shortage of drugs and fuels. This massive insistence of 'no', as an explicit command to break with austerity, was confronted with the 'yes' of the ruling class and the above interlayers, those who won from the memorials, those who have interests from the Memorandums. This support is not negligible and we must not underestimate it or disappoint it, as well as international solidarity, which was great. We can start with improvements from this bill. No child who didn't succeed in school, despite having studied, not to be excluded. No child whose parents lost the right to remain legally on account of unemployment, no child whose parents never had the right to legalization should be allowed to live without a home and without paper. The 'equal rights for all' must not remain a slogan because now, Minister, I think we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Mr. Lykoudis and Mr. Meikopoulou are absent, so Mrs. Alonitou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, having lived for eight years abroad during my studies in the United States of America, in a country with a strong presence from democrat Hellenism, I have gained immediate personal experience of the sensitive issue of giving citizenship and citizenship to foreigners, what opportunities it offers, but also what dangers it is hiding. In the light of these personal experiences, therefore, I would like to dwell on Articles 1 to 4 of the Legislation on citizenship, concerning the award of citizenship to second generation immigrants, to people who were born or who were found living in our country, not from their own choice, but from their parents' choice. First of all, Article 1 deals with an existing situation, the existence in our country of children who, although not of Greek origin, know no other country than Greece. Once we have such children in our country, we have two options: we can offer these children the possibility of joining and assimilation to the Greek society, if they want it, or we can exclude them in social ghettos within the limits of our country. History and modern international experience show that from these two options the second is extremely dangerous. To have a group of people who feel strangers in your country, but without feeling tied to another country, in which they would once like to return, creates a source of social friction that, if culminated, will not find a way out. But it is not the same thing as first generation immigrants. People who chose as adults to come to our country to work have their own national and cultural identity and often see residence as temporary. We lived in the years of the crisis the phenomenon of voluntary withdrawal of legal immigrants, especially from Balkan countries, who came and left on the basis of developments in the labour market. But when a child has been born here, when he has not met another home, when he knows the Greek language better than his parents' language, when he has learned to live on the basis of the social norms of today's Greece and often does not even understand the traditional social conventions of his country of origin, to want to treat it as a temporary immigrant is unrealistic. Ladies and gentlemen, a question arises, but such a child feels Greek or foreign? From my experience in America I will tell you that he feels Greek, if Greece allows him, while if he is forced to go back to his parents' home country as an adult, that's where he'll probably feel a stranger. That applies to the majority of people. Of course, we cannot legislate statistically, so we also have criteria for an insurance policy. Article 1 lays down a basic criterion for Greek education, considering that it will act objectively assimilately. It also lays down the long-term and legal residence of parents in Greece, so that we do not have cases of birth in our country alone for the purpose of obtaining citizenship. Article 3 offers the insurance policy, if the child does not want Greek citizenship, to be able to expel her as soon as she is young. I have heard some objections from the bill of the kind "Greek you are born, you are not". Ladies and gentlemen, especially us Greeks, having a written history of almost three millenniums, we should have greater confidence and stronger resistance to such narrow-minded theories. Let us not forget that cosmopolitanism, which causes some in here abomination, is an ancient Greek invention. The Greeks are not afraid. In the millennia of our history, we are neither xenophobic nor xenophobic. We appreciate people, evaluate institutions, evaluate situations at their value. On Sunday we said a famous 'no' to a foreign edifice, not because the proposals it contains come from abroad, but because they are disastrous for our country and why we do not accept edifices. Today we say 'yes' to a measured, voluntary and in terms of assimilation of children born and growing up in our country, because this serves our humanitarian values, because this serves our European authorities, because, finally, this is of interest to our country. So I am voting for the bill "Amendment of provisions of the Code of Nationality, etc." according to article as it stands and I am, ladies and gentlemen, very proud that my country has the flag of its cultural values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Mr Karayannides has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I am incomprehensible from yesterday's request for specific parliamentary groups not to have the debate yesterday and today. Yesterday and today we had to have this debate and it turns out to be necessary. It is a bill that applies our country's obligations to immigrants, which solves issues that should have been solved for years, which finally leads the children of the second generation to live with dignity and equal opportunities within the Greek society. It is incomprehensible to me because yesterday we were asked not to speak. So this debate will also take place on the bill and we will resolve and solve many problems with this bill. But we have to stay from now on. I think - and it is the image of right-wing opposition - that these people were so bitter that they are not even in the Chamber today. It is the image of how the right-wing opposition parties perceive the policy of arguments. They are absent throughout the conversation only when one of the MPs needs to speak, so he comes, talks and leaves. It has been said this week that we have been through scary things until Sunday that we cannot question and cannot hide under the carpet. It was said that the SYRIZA - ANEL government leads the country into division. Forgive me, but a division that takes 61.5% is probably not a division - and indeed 61.3% - against a terrorism of the juveniles of private channels, against a terrorism of closed banks. Obviously, it's not a national division. It's a different division, social division. For in any case, despite the fact that some are questioning it in this country but also throughout Europe, there are exploiters and exploiters. So the exploiters decided on Sunday to stop the austerity. The exploited on Sunday decided to put an end to the imposition of another policy that they themselves want to create. The exploited have decided that democracy must finally function in Europe on Sunday. If the people of right-wing opposition see it as a division, it is their right. Only the world has chosen otherwise, otherwise the world has chosen the "other" one with a dirty voice, which is why today it is not against them. It has also been said that we are losing our European identity. So this bill is our European identity, for which we are not told about in this bill. So our European identity exists, there is and will exist. These people have not seen the hundreds of intellectual European politicians, they have not seen the demonstrations throughout Europe, they have not seen the movements that have developed in recent years. They have, in their Europe of course, remained, in Europe of the wages of EUR 300, in Europe, of the hard exploitation of capital towards workers. We in Europe did not choose it, and we will not choose it. This line taken on Sunday cannot be ignored. This line taken on Sunday is something that opens new roads not only for our country. We do not only want Greece and the people who live in this country to be saved. We want Europe to be saved as a whole. Europe with austerity policies will not be saved. It will lead to totalitarianism. A few moments ago, we watched something vulgar when the Prime Minister of Greece spoke in the European Parliament. The right wing of the European Parliament has dared to interrupt and mourn a Prime Minister of a European country. Is that acceptable to the Members of the Right of Representation? Are they in line with these practices? So, those who until yesterday told us what we were told about the referendum that it was supposedly coup d'état and unconstitutional, but nevertheless participated and lost, will they admit their mistake? Will they admit that they exercised terrorism that this referendum was in favour of the agreement and not of staying in the Eurozone? Will they finally admit that their understanding that we want to make our country Albania and others want to make us Europe? We heard these arguments last week. None of them find the courage to apologize for what was said last week. Will the leadership of the GFCM finally resign? A labour movement can be represented by these workers? Can the labour world expect any of these aliens who are professionally trade unionists? All these chambers, the business operators that were in favour of 'yes', want to implement a memorandum that will tax them 29% with an advance of 100%? They should come and ask for it. They're gonna get us out of the tough spot. So those who choose this should come and apologize and not be absent today from this debate. Finally, when a referendum makes a very concrete decision, it actually forms the social demands which are currently unnegotiable. Neither in Europe nor in the whole world can a Greek people be defeated who ask to live with dignity and the future. That is what the right-wing anti-population gentlemen will come to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mrs Cavadia is not here and next on the list is Mrs Kanellepoulou. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the day is being offered, I do not want the battle of the country's fights to be used and to be analysed in crocodile tears for the uproar of the country. After all, I am the vast majority of the Greeks who did not discover the tails of the people in the context of the 'capital control'. The truth is, I'd seen retired tails in the banks crying seeing their repeated cut-off pensions. I had seen queues of fellow citizens who didn't have the five euros for entering hospitals, unemployed tails at the OAED, tails of hungry people in the piles. Unlike many in here - but now missing - I have not discovered America in the last five months. In the end, I belong to the overwhelming majority, in that 61.3% who said "not to the austerity" on Sunday that passed. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I will only deal with the draft legislation under discussion, which is not a mere processor in order to harmonize national law with Community law. It is, given the circumstances, the response of all the progressive and radical forces of the country to reactionary attitudes that, while coming from a long time ago, some people are trying in a way sometimes obvious and sometimes unseen to keep them at the forefront, while at the same time maintaining the public dialogue of vague and very conservative views. So, at the current juncture, this government, this slandering government, which has been fought by local and foreign enemies, comes the Left Government to propose a draft law that puts things on their right basis and takes some steps. It may be that some may consider them to be remorseless and may have a number of trials. However, they are to resolve important aspects of the issue. I would like to remind you that with the Westphalia Treaty in 1648, after the defeat of Napoleon in Vaterlos in 1815 they were born in the European continent, where the least crucial element in their creation was the concept of nationality. Let us also look back at the National Assemblys of Epidaurus, Troizina and Astros, and the first recognized Greek state of 1830, where representatives of the rebelled nation decided that Greeks outside of religion and locality, is whoever fought to create this state. So did the late Nicos Pouldzas when he said the nation was making it for the state. For this matter, therefore, at ideological level at times it is written and it is heard that citizenship is neither acquired nor awarded. We just remind ourselves, without creepy details that most likely distress many, that the junta of the colonists removed citizenship from many fighters, while, on the contrary, citizenship has been awarded only posteriorly with political benefits. Eventually the same story responds to unequivocal arguments. In our view, the arguments based on the anger and only or distortion of historical reality and truth are the refuge of extremely weak and extremely extreme views. The decision on the performance of citizenship on criteria is even more burdened by international and European developments. Neoliberal European elites systematically paraphrase the founding conditions of the European Union and direct the concept of European identity through very perverse perspectives. From the Europe of free thinking, acting and moving Europeans, we have been told relentlessly that the European is who accepts the euro. The economy now seems to give its own citizenship, as much as the Greeks, a people who traditionally support the European perspective, are at risk of being considered foreigners within their own home. The technical details of the bill under discussion have been worked out by the country's most brilliant scientific staff, people with international reports, scientists of the 21st century, knowledgeers of international trends, shareholders of the most pioneering Greek idea ever, of ecumenity. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is the very reality of looking at it in the face of it. And I wish only to dwell on what has to do with the so-called'second generation of migrants', children. We are not talking about an abstract issue of law or regulation that can be referred to in the future. We speak of thousands of children who go to our schools, who grow in the same cobbleds as the Greeks, who make common company at the prefectures of the schools, who play the same games, take part in the same education, have never met a home country from Greece, and which many times the Greek is their native language. And "the language is home", as Vangelis Raptopoulos says in his last book. We have no right to deprive these children of Greek citizenship, because its acquisition must be the culmination of a long journey in time with a final reward for citizenship. On the contrary, in our opinion, it should and will be by voting in favour of this draft law to recognise an existing situation, so that there will eventually be a sustainable macro-historic solution to the issue. Listen. We insist on staying in Greece having our look around the world: Cuba, Venezuela and Bolivia as the Europe of enlightenment, democracy, solidarity, as the'reds' Madrid and Barcelona. That's how we learned. With this great social gift we want to endure the present Greeks. Our national poet, who at the beginning spoke and wrote much better Italian than Greek, Dionysius Solomos, today would be proud that at last this country, instead of looking for Greekity in blood, is seeking it in the minds and dreams of young people. All young people. Today Greece is looking at the soul and mind of its people and not the color of their faces. That is why we can only be proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Kanellepoulou. The floor has been asked and will be taken by Minister Voutsis. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would not have taken the floor because I had been placed in the committees and here in the first debate. But I think it is my duty to speak today after the shocking presence and speech of the Prime Minister of Greece in the European Parliament. At a time of extreme shock, I would say, but also dangerous, where the speed of decisions will play its part, we see an image where the masks are falling: nervousness, threatening persons, ultimatums, implying to our country as a result of the otherwise realistic experienced politicians of Europe towards the very large percentage that the Greek people with the referendum gave to 'no' the austerity and the broad consensus which was reflected in the meeting of the Heads of Political Party under the President of the Republic. We must respond with coolness, coolness that it has no longer had - and I am referring to the subject that we are discussing today - the Chief of the People's Party in the European Parliament, Mr Weber, who challenged the Prime Minister that we have been threatening to fill with immigrants. In other words, we should open the cliff from the role assigned to us by the man-guards in this part of Europe to go to immigrants if anything happens in our country in this conflict with our partner lenders. This threat does not express us. We've never captured her. We are not thinking about it, because that is precisely why we have standing values, and that is why the world that comes into crisis conditions in our country, but also about the whole of Europe, where we want the European Union to change its strategy as a whole for immigration. And look at the incredible. That's why I say the masks fall. Within the European Parliament itself they were representatives of states - I do not want to go into detail here, we all know - who refused the recommendation of the Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos and the Commission at the recent summit. They refused to consent and to comply with the minimum of a positive turn on the issue of the strategy to tackle immigration from the European Union. To the least I say, because you know what it's been like for two years for for forty thousand of these people. We are very well aware of the involvement of European Union countries in increasing these reasons which lead them to demand for a better life in Europe. There are these people on the coast from Turkey to Libya, etc. He refused a series of countries, small and large. That's why a 20 eight-eight meeting is not convened to be punished. These are not outside values and solidarity and propaganda and humanism and European culture. It is only the first few months that they can pond with three and a half thousand dead in the Mediterranean. For them there is no mercy, there is no consensus, there is no sense of democracy, there is no unbelievable argument, which for five months - if possible! - countries which have an excellent theoretical, scientific, political and neoliberal orientation of their leaderships, as an argument they always bring to the table. What is this terrible argument they have said today to the Greek Prime Minister in Strasbourg? The democracies of the eighteen against the republic of the one who dared to vote! What nonsense, my God! Who prevented any of these eighteen states from expressing their opinion in the past? But always, whoever a state referendumd, had these elites in front of him, had this status in front of him, had these stereotypes of arguments. It is incomprehensible that responsible political leaders in Europe today argue that 'all right, the Greeks have decided this, that they do not want austerity, they do not want to die, they do not want the rich to continue becoming richer and speculate in the crisis, and they want there to be redistribution, they want there to be a set-aside of the debt issue and a development perspective with an honest economically viable agreement, but they do not want to be,' because they are resources we receive from other states. Unbelievable? He also dared one of the gentlemen today in the European Parliament to say what Mr Thompsen said. Remember, I have spoken from this Step on the revealing presence of Mr Corkides who otherwise is not our ideological concept. In the committee here, in the House, he told him that three hundred euros is the wage for the Balkans - this is the strategy - when they had discussions with the troika when the New Democracy was in things. He dared again today, he regained the argument. "Tell" - says - "To the Bulgarians, beside you, how they live. How dare you ask for more?' They said so in the European Parliament. This is the strategy and it is the strategy of a Europe that is divided, divided, divided, into conflicts, into major inequalities and should change this strategy. In the very short time that the Greek Government and the Prime Minister's efforts are in this direction, with hospitable ears, which exist in more governments, in more states, in more journalists. You see today beyond the Atlantic and within Europe what has been written even for yesterday's events. It is a correlation of powers that may not change in the way the Greek people would like, with the speed and quality that we would like, but that changes with the protagonistic presence of the "no" of the Greek people, the broad consensus of the Greek people to stop the programs of austerity and the bleeding of resources and social inequality. It's a battle we'll fight to the end. So let us know: no two metres and two weights. That is why the Greek Parliament in Europe is discussing today how they do not hear, how they do not see, when large countries are being affected there, which is going through their word, and which nonetheless takes any action, nor even a broad debate that will convince all countries to comply with any new strategy on this issue. Colleagues and colleagues, we really do have our own role at the moment, our will is not to completely fall the masks to prove the terrible face of a Europe that is ageing and, at the same time, gaining a dark color in relation to the social demands of the past decades. Our role as government, as we understand it, is through this penetrating, detailed discussion to bring these elements to the surface, which will create consensus, proximity, elements of solidarity, coincidences, shocks and shocks so that there can be a substantial advance with an honest, honest and socially recognizable and developmental agreement. We are making this challenge against these staff and these challenges that are addressed to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has asked for the floor and we will then continue the list of speakers. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u72	There are no doubts in these days that the masks are falling and this horror face of the European Union, of imperialism, actually manifests itself. And he's got it all the time. Speaking of the European Union's immigration and values, indeed, Mr Voutsi, there are three and a half thousand dead. Could be more than that now. In 1999, when the European Union bombed Yugoslavia, which dared to say 'I do not want the Eastern troops to pass through my own country' - regardless of what view one might have of the regime that was in existence - then what governments were they bombing? Wasn't the governments of these extremes, as you say, powers today, where do they prevail? Wasn't there any other governments? Wasn't Zospen's France? Wasn't Italy of D'Alema, where the planes were taking off, and besides bombs flying up to sterilization bombs? That was the European Union always. She was never different. Conditions have changed and now she's showing up, so freaky. It never changed. Was it not with the participation of the Greek Government that they also threw Libya into this situation that they are today? Was it not the one who supported and indirectly financed, together with other forces, the blindest thing there is, the jihadists? Wasn't that the European Union, which, with the Maastricht Treaty, pissed on what the labour movement had achieved with hard and bloody struggles over the past few years? Aren't they the ones who brought the White Paper, which wiped out labour rights and which European industrialists wrote? Aren't they the ones who brought the Green Paper, lately, to abolish collective agreements and dismantle labour relations? Are they not those who have never respected a referendum, apart from the referendum on the European Constitution, and for other reasons, which requires a lot of discussion? Aren't they the ones who forced people to rejoin referendums until they got the result they wanted? That was the European Union. It has not changed, nor has the European Union changed. The new delusions that may be cultivated in connection with the association of forces, in our opinion, are in the wrong direction for the people, rather than preparing them for a conflict with this European Union and the capitalist development path, because it is nothing different. We say, then, that what we need to realise about the working class and our people in terms of both the European Union and the inhuman face of capitalism that is taking place these days is that it needs a wider social, popular alliance, to face the blemish that comes anyway, in one way or another, either by agreement or by persecution of Greece, and to pave the way to take the real power in his hands and move in another direction. The rest will lead him where he was led by now. I do not want to say any more, but at the moment, it is time that we think calmly about workers and the people about what is going on and, above all, about forging their class unity. Because opponents are not only bad Europeans. It is rivals who have power both in Greece and abroad. It's the big chapter. If this does not change, let there be no new illusion that the relationships can change and the European Union itself can change. We've learned a lot. Time was little, but politicians were huge. And they have huge responsibilities, those who even today cultivate delusionalism that can through agreements, with a play of the association of forces to bring something better. There's only one way out. And it must be prepared for the people to walk too quickly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor. You have the floor for seven minutes, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, thank you. I'd first like to comment on the fact that I finally feel like we're between us. Apart from the SYRIZA Members and two JRC MPs, the other opposition is virtually absent. Not one of the Qualified Opposition is here. But it's okay. The Greek Government is negotiating hard at the most critical phase in which we have come, but the Greek Parliament continues and works because we are a sovereign state and we legislate. Today we are discussing this legislation on citizenship and the process will be completed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a brief answer to the JRC. SYRIZA, the Greek Government does not defend this Europe. It does not defend the Europe of neoliberalism, the Europe of austerity. We want this Europe to change, to return to its basic values and principles, to solidarity, to democracy which has collapsed and, of course, to the social state. Greece will start this change. We've said it in good time. And if you wish, the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, which is currently in existence, which is negotiating for the interests of the Greek people, is also negotiating for the interests of all the peoples of Europe. For another Europe, then. If it doesn't change, it'll collapse. Today I would like to place myself in the very serious legislation on citizenship, but in particular, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 13, which deals with the establishment of the Public Energy Investment Company SA, whose purpose, as shown in that article, is to invest in the construction and management of gas pipelines and other development infrastructures. Although I appreciate that this article covers a large, serious subject and could involve much more, I would like to raise a few serious issues. As is well known, the PASOK Memorandum of Ministers with Mr Papaconstantinou and Mr Manatis, blinded by its political ideas, took care of good cooperation with its subsequent government partner, New Democracy, to prevent the protection of the public interest and to demolish existing legislation. Thus, under Law 4001/2011, which amended Law 2289/1995, it managed to reduce the taxation of oil companies from 40% to 25%, and the main part excluded State participation in investments in mining and energy pipelines. This situation is exacerbated by the Memorandum of Understanding New Democracy - PASOK, which is loyal to these neoliberal choices, has promoted the sale, even the participation of the public in the energy companies. The examples are many. It is a long list: PPC, PPC, DESFA and even ELPE. In her hopes, therefore, she attempts to set up false successes and attract investors, as well as the TAP agreement, an agreement that leaves no substantial benefit to our country, but I will not go into it. However, the gap left by the Memorandum Legislation and the neoliberal ideals comes to cover the establishment of the Public Energy Investment Corporation in Article 13 of that bill. Such a company, in accordance with the draft law, will be able to participate as a public representative in the construction of gas pipelines and in their management. As it is understandable, the benefits of such legal acts will be many. During the construction, the benefits will come mainly from the participation of Greek companies in the construction phase of the pipeline, directly, using Greek labour and scientific resources and with an obvious objective of reducing unemployment. The supply of products manufactured domestically will also bring direct jobs, increase the turnover of companies involved and increase the national product. Revenue will be made in both the public and the corresponding insurance funds. However, if this is quite important, an additional great benefit that can be created is the training of staff in such an important sector of the construction of transport pipelines today. Tomorrow, when we move to an economy that will not use fossil fuels, the economies of zero carbon, as we say, will also be used in the construction of the necessary alternative fuel transport infrastructure, such as hydrogen. Finally, a very important advantage is gained from direct transfer to the Greek economy of important know-how in an increasingly technical and scientific sector of the economy. I would therefore say that public participation in such projects obviously brings many indirect benefits, benefits mainly resulting from the development of parallel activities - mainly in the field of services - benefits in regional development, but also in the country's productive fabric. Such innovations for our country - economic activities - it is true that they will bring jobs, employment, positions in modern - I would say - technologies such as the construction, control and maintenance of software suitable for the operation and control of the situation of the project in small and medium-sized Greek enterprises, giving jobs to young skilled people, who today either underemployed or unfortunately have left abroad. The creation and creation of such a company is at a time when serious discussions are taking place, negotiations on the pipelines in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The article in the bill under discussion, in my opinion, could contain much more. It can be provided for the adoption of a Presidential Decree, which we are now discussing with the amendment of a joint ministerial decision, the statute of the company that will regulate matters as required by our country's company law for public limited companies, but this must be prepared through a serious public debate both on the company's detailed explanation of the company's intentions and on its relations with the financial instruments of our time, such as the development bank announced by the government. Also, issues that need to be discussed seriously are the establishment of equity. Who could be involved outside the public sector? For example, could public bodies such as insurance funds, for example, obtain some extra revenue after the destructive PSI? Could they participate in minority packages and individuals, whether natural persons or entities? Will this company have rights to co-operate with foreign and domestic companies in joint ventures with relevant objects and on what terms? In the purposes of the undertaking, which are described in a plaque manner in the relevant paragraph, the term ‘relevant object’ used should be clarified. Finally, I think it is very important that the Agency's Board of Directors should be properly staffed not only by managers but also by persons who have experience in geopolitical matters - there is daily information - because they will be one of the main arms of the Greek state that is required today in what we call 'energy, energy diplomacy' and will be the mirror, even indirectly of the government in the exercise of many foreign policy areas of the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. I would like to inform you for reasons of order - because there have been comments on this - that Members of the New Democracy, PASOK, ANEL and the River have informed the Bureau that their absence has to do with the meeting of their parliamentary groups. Mr. George Psychogios has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion represents an important step towards both the coordinate and criteria for citizenship and for restoring the injustices of the Migration Code. It is also a bill which, in my view, has an ideological sign. It incorporates constant demands and positions of migrant organisations and the Left and parliamentary and movement, not to the extent that we would like, but certainly devours the needs of the most vulnerable perhaps part of the country that is refugees and immigrants. There are currently major amendments and additions to the Migration Code, concerning the possibility of parents, firstly applying for a legal residence permit in the country, which in the long term can also open the way to their children. I will specifically refer to the articles dealing with the Immigration Code, which incorporate those amendments and additions, so that injustices in time can be restored. In particular, paragraph 5 of Article 8 shall be reformed for exceptional reasons. From ten years on, seven years will be required in order to establish a right to lodge an application. It is also envisaged to restore legality by simplifying procedures for those holding a residence permit in Greece for at least five years during the last decade before the application is submitted as a fixed system for restoring legality. Paragraph 6 of Article 8 significantly decentralises the procedure for the submission and examination of applications, which gives an answer to the issues of aggregation and workload of applicants and lawyers involved in these cases. Paragraph 7 of Article 8 reintegrates with some improvements to the Immigration Code the provision on the conditions for granting a residence permit for humanitarian reasons to a number of categories of third-country citizens, while paragraphs 17 and 18 make it considerably easier for family reunification to be established in the country, and the procedure in question is streamlined by removing the abuse of the requirement to cover the criteria for the integration of their first-entry members into the country, which seemed to be almost absurd. Article 9 is also facing years of problems of migration and integration policy, after the management of the European programmes of the Internal Security Fund and the Immigration and Integration Asylum Fund are entrusted with the central service supervision of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction. Article 9 also establishes a new service, the managing authority - as we say - the management of European programmes for reception and integration of asylum seekers by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction. The aim of all of this is to address multi-diverse competences related to migration to different ministries, as they have always created administrative arrhythmias, budgetary complications, waste of resources and delay in implementing policies. It is well known, Minister, and Minister, that significant funds, which had been allocated to Greece for use or for reception centres, have never been used and have never gone where they should be. Finally, a very important part is the reference in the bill to seasonal land workers, which is also about my region and other regions and Corinthia, and it is also a constant request for farmers and migrants to regulate their status so that everyone can contribute to this process and have security. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised to hear these days representatives from the Opposition, which are deafeningly absent at the moment except for the Member of the Communist Party, who say that the performance and award of citizenship to the 1st grade, under the conditions that exist, is excessive or inconsistent or not enough to be attributed. And they are well aware of the treatment these children have when they do not have papers or citizenship when there is no such element. The Greek society has clearly moved forward and learned to coexist with these people. However, they are not far from my own school years when they were fingerprinted, at least by some of their classmates or teachers or parents, people who, not only because of color but also because they had not entered into these rights were marginalized. Secondly, it has been heard that they are sending their children to foreign-language schools and that is why they do not want to join. Here there is an absurdity, because once a child has the Greek nationality, under the conditions laid down by law, it will also be morally and administratively possible to have access to all rights and obligations and therefore to choose the Greek school. Therefore, this argument cannot be upheld. It will certainly be an incentive to give citizenship so that they do not go to foreign-language schools and are taught in Greek. One wonders, when the children of Greeks abroad enjoy these rights, that is where we also like the law of the territory, but does it not apply in our country? This also raises reasonable questions because a number of anti-populationists have lived and travelled abroad and voted against this bill, which is elementary and which also sets strict rules. On a recent mission of the House in London for the British elections, as a member of the OSCE Committee, we saw in one of the schools that operated as a election centre the word 'good morning' in thirteen languages, including ours. The economic miracle of London, New York and the building and economic development of our country over the past twenty years has been largely due to immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, bills such as this, but also several government bills so far, such as the humanitarian crisis to defend social and economic rights, the decongestion of prisons by vulnerable social groups, the reopening of the ERT, the payment order for administrative contracts against the public authorities in the European Union as an equal member and making it a pariah. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the "no" of the Greek people shows that the Greek society is ready and determined to clash, not only with austerity and neoliberal policies, but also with all the paths and injustices of recent years. It seems willing to fight for a fairer society that will guarantee work and advancement to everyone and everyone who lives in this country and all together to fight to bring the sun back. Indeed, as our rapporteur has said, this 'no' goes beyond us, but it does not go beyond us because we cannot manage it, but because it calls for initiatives such as those of this bill, which restore injustices of time very quickly and decisively. Be sure to do it and fight as long as we can for a life of dignity. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Georgadas, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, about an hour ago I told you that I had to be in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, because we had an important meeting for information and for decisions on developments. Unfortunately, it is true that today's sitting had to be postponed, because we detest the bill itself, which really has its importance. Because colleagues, as I was informed, made comments from the Step towards the absence of Anti-Population, it is an absence that is not our choice, but it is necessary. I would like to say to you that I, too, have to leave for the parliamentary group and I will continue. I just think our objections to the postponement of the sitting are being verified yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. Mr. Charakides is absent. Mrs Kritsi has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that these two plenary sessions of the Greek Parliament, yesterday and today, are historic. They are historic because they are the first after the referendum, which has already been registered in history as the most proud, anti-resistance, hopeful act of the great majority of the Greek people. Just three days ago, the Greek people taught and opened the roads for us in this Chamber and also for the peoples of the whole of Europe. Despite the rabies attack, despite the propaganda, which would scare Gobels, despite the terrorism and the provocative interventions that are still going on today, the Greek people have made their stand and demanded in the clearest way another course for this place. But he lifted his stature without hesitation, without divisive or avengerial dispositions before and after the referendum. Without dangerous segregation and drying, the people, by handing in lessons of political approach to issues, were not afraid, not bent, did not break down in the unprecedented psychological war unleashed by an entire system. Showing absolute coolness in a very difficult situation for Greece, with closed banks and within a stage literally terrorized his will and with his vote bound everyone. From this position I would like the most sincerely to thank the people for their handy and highly political attitude and to say that the previous Sunday of the referendum must teach us all determination, cleanness, freedom and, above all, political approach to the big issues, against the economic, post-modern concept that has been leading over recent years. The people's resistance spirit teaches us, inspires us and above all - and I note that - it commits us. Ladies and gentlemen, the will of the people is committed to us, among others, to insisting on the promotion of the legislative and governmental work, which focuses on the needs of society. Today the bill on citizenship is in the final straight for its vote by the Greek Parliament. This is a bill that is coming to regulate yet another loose end that the parties to the Memorandum of Understanding have inherited the new government, which must deal effectively with any organised state that does not want to close its eyes in reality. The draft law we are debating has two parts. I will refer to the first, what attempts to regulate the award of citizenship to children of migrants born in Greece or who even if they were not born in Greece, were socialized from an early age through the Greek educational system. It is the second attempt to regulate the issue of citizenship for migrant children. The first was annulled by Decision 460/2013 of the Council of State's plenary session. This decision annulled the change brought about by the so-called 'Ragosia Law'. Although I politically disagree with the view expressed in the decision of the Council of State, you will allow me to express the view that there is something positive in it. The decision in no case precludes legislation for the acquisition of Greek nationality on grounds of birth or university in Greece. At its request, the standard criteria should be combined and with substance in order to substantiate the genuine tie between the alien and Greece. The decision determines that the risk is the integration into Greek society and the creation of a genuine link with our country. The Council of State thus gives a clear outline for the conduct of the debate on the draft law. This can and should be avoided by the general risk which has characterized the discussions on the n. 3838/2010. The specific framework imposed on us by the cancellation decision allows us to look at the matter soberly, not to go along with the refugee problem, which is actually burdening our country's organizational capabilities, and not to run into a sterile confrontational debate again. Our country is at risk from other political choices and I do not need to talk about them at this time. The danger does not come from providing perspective to children who have never met a country other than our own, who are growing up and playing next to our own children and who can raise the flag of excellence in our schools. I would like to address briefly an issue that the people who are concerned with the draft law that we are discussing would reasonably raise, the people who, having made our country the centre of their lives, actually show their confidence in the Greek state. Our fellow citizens who are trying to eliminate the conditions of bioinsecurity that the status of a foreigner for their children entails can reasonably ask whether we consider the provisions of the draft law to be sufficient, more favourable or more unfavourable than those repealed by Decision 460/2013 of the Council of State. I would say: it is not just about the individual grammar wording of the articles, which the Ministry and the rapporteur have already placed, it is about the whole supportive grid, the logistics infrastructure and the administrative practice that frames them and the new wind that is breathing with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It is a left-wing policy to bypass this sterile legal confrontation used by our politicians in pretext, those who want to encroach on us in a rigid system of law of origin on issues of citizenship. As it appears from the decision of the Council of State, which they think deserves them once and for all, it is a question of integrating them in order to create a genuine link with Greece. This kind of integration goes primarily through the educational system, ladies and gentlemen. The vote of confidence in the Greek education system as a socialisation body, as it appears in the draft law, I think it is also the key to the success of this legislative initiative, and that is where we should turn our attention, by removing any kind of haggling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to vote in favour of the bill, referring to a typical example, in Mytilini, which each day accepts a large number of refugee flows, where many people pass self-sacrificing, because they gather with their cars on the road desperate mothers who walk under the hot sun hundreds of miles to reach the city. Can this go on? Is solidarity and humanity to be criminalised and that to be tolerated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Kritsi. Before giving the floor to my next colleague, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Gerovas, who has not been placed and has all the right to be present, has requested the floor. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, we are really at a very critical moment for the country. We're about three days after the referendum and five days before the upcoming deal. The "no" of Greek citizens sent multiple messages with multiple recipients inside and outside the country. The 'no' was deafening and created a new political reality. But I would like to refer to what messages this referendum sent out because, although events run too fast, I think it is necessary not to get over it. Message One: The Greek people on Sunday gave a lesson in democracy, confirming their political maturity and coolness. Forty-one years the Greek people were not given the word to decide on issues relating to their future. Within a week Greek citizens of democracy, coordinates, without fanaticism, went to the polls massively and expressed. Message 2: The result is a clean and deafening 'no'. It is also interesting to see the statistical analysis of this vote. It is a "no" heard by the province and by urban centers, just as men and women, by workers and unemployed of all professional groups, private and public, from all age groups, much more than young people, where the percentage was overwhelming. I am referring to this, for those who in recent years have built up their strategy of social automation and the division of citizens, who have even tried, on the occasion of the referendum, to divide the Greek people, even falsifying that question of the referendum. Third: Greek citizens with "no" gave the most powerful negotiating paper in the hands of the government, a paper that only sovereign people know how to give. The result gave the government even stronger power to fight and restore social cohesion and economic stability. Regardless of what everyone chose to vote, debt and collective responsibility are common. Fourthly: Sunday's outcome confirmed the country's European perspective and course and indeed the hard core of the Eurozone. But not in terms of submissiveness, not as a colony of debts, but as an equal member, with respect for democracy, popular sovereignty, but all that stems from the normative conditions of the European Union, without austerity measures that have had barbaric consequences for Greece and have proved to have failed. Fifth: Greek citizens said no to fear and returned to those of whom they were expelled. For a whole week we have experienced an uncovered propaganda attack by the systemic media, even using public frequencies, whose use they had learned and not paid. Now that the account has been sent, they have not hesitated to violate any rule of ethics, any legislation, in order to distort the Greek people's vote. And they did not, of course, want to protect the people's interests, their own attempts to rescue now justice has intervened and we expect the results. Six: On the occasion of the referendum, the masks fell. It was revealed voluntarily and in public view the entire mediatic, economic, trade and trade union establishment of the country. We have seen who the system is. It was the battle of the fights for them, it was the opportunity to end once and for all with the Left. They have therefore made their wish for the truth, and they have also carried the European allies to politicians. They were told to make a little patience, put a little back at the right time and on Monday everything will return to the normality of the Greek colony's function. Last week, however, it was the final straight out of the strategic attack on the Genaris people's mandate. That is why all the arsenal, both local and foreign, was forced to be exposed on stage, misinformed and promoted, with the European Central Bank blackmailing, through the closure of the Greek banks, with the European political elite intervening in Greek democracy, raw, daily, with the GSEE compiling with BSE, while the French trade unions protesting on the part of the Greeks and "no", with the supposedly independent and incomplete self-governmental ones entering the front and becoming parties to "yes", with employers pressing workers on the limits of the blackmail or even beyond, with the workers responsible for the Ionian Road construction in my area, in Arta, claiming from the beginning of the week that they have no oil for the machinery, shutting them down by announcing the workers that the operation will be reopened by the referendum results. Seventh conclusion: they were wrong to pull out the old establishment from the tomb of political history that the Greek people had put on them. They went out to contemplate and guide the citizens all those who contributed and condemned him to this fate. Sunday's "no" was the best memorial to all of them. Eighth: After Sunday's "no" the political leaders were on the same table, and that's because the Greek people had confirmed everything that SYRIZA from the outset argued that they should contribute to addressing the country's problem and the burdens that can most withstand that without debt restructuring and a credible development plan, there can be no sustainable solution. Ninth, finally: The Greek people sent a message to the government of SYRIZA and ANEL. It has commanded us to move further forward from now on, to break the vicious cycle of corruption of the media, the oligarchs, bankers, employers' terrorism, to shake them into legality. Ladies and gentlemen, the messages are leaving, but they also need a prosperous ear to hear them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u83	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u84	The peoples of Europe and several economic and political actors have received the message and have responded either by making statements or by mobilising solidarity. Our lenders did not understand. Mr Yunker said the day before yesterday 'I did not understand what the Greeks voted'. The next day, he said, "I hadn't told you, though? The 'no' does not help the country's negotiating position and we would now like to punish you for that, but after we have also taken care of the humanitarian crisis that will result from our punishment. As if today, of course, there is no humanitarian crisis. It's a word that was taboo, we only called it in Greece and nobody smiling it. Here, then, I would like to call on the other parliamentary groups of the opposition, the other Members of Parliament to express their opinion on the Yunker position, on the Verber position today, on the punishment with which we are threatened, on the unprecedented cynicism posed by the dilemma or a memorandum and full subordination or Grexit, on the contrary, against the verdict of the people and despite the efforts we have made over so many years. It has even been argued that in the other countries - the other eighteen - they have democracy and not only in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, no voter in Lithuania or Finland voted for his government to decide on VAT on the Greek islands nor to abolish the EASA, as in Greece, would never have been a referendum on policies concerning peoples. Greece does not ask for new money from European taxpayers. It calls for policies to make the debt viable so that it can repay its debts to creditors. At this point there is a very interesting debate in the European Parliament, a debate that opened not only for Greece but for all of Europe. This is due to Greece, because of the efforts of the Greek Government, to try to get back to the European Union's founding principles. No one can hide from their historical responsibilities anymore. As the Prime Minister said, today the history of the European Union is a history of controversy, but in the end consensus prevails through mutual retreats. We hope and believe that, and now, prudence will prevail and a solution will be found. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has changed and Europe is changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u87	Just a minute, Mr. Palphie. We have Mr Lappa, who has not been given the floor before. Mr. Lappas has the floor for seven minutes. To keep time, as most colleagues do, so that everyone can speak. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, coming out of the bronze 'no' of the Greek people, I think what was preceded by the referendum. I am thinking of the behaviour of the European political leaders, who now, as everyone has said, fell their masks and what they have sought in every way was the eating of the prestige of Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the falling - if possible - of his government. In every way they sought what Brecht once ironically said, that if one people vote wrong, the sovereigns will simply vote for another people. Well, in this very Greek people gave a bronze 'no' and said that this is only a matter for the Greek people and it is a question of democracy, it is a question of democracy. The question of democracy, of course, is the bill we are discussing. The struggle for citizenship is indeed a struggle for democracy, and this struggle is for us, in particular for SYRIZA and the progressive party in general, the embryonic ideas and perceptions that make up our political power. The question of citizenship is, as we said in the debate on the principle, basic legal and political. And under the law, we said that citizenship is the bond of a person to a state of which he belongs. That's the definition, there's no one else. In fact, this definition is also reinforced by the European Convention on citizenship, which, in Article 2, reads as follows: "Nationality is the legal link between the individual and the State..." - be careful, please - "... and it is not an indication of its national origin". In Article 5 of that convention, it states: ‘The rules of law of the Member States relating to nationality must not include provisions or any practice which constitutes discrimination on grounds of sex, religion, race, colour, national or ethnic origin’. There was a lot of talk in the debate on the principle, too, about the arguments of the majority and a minority of 360/2013 decision of the Council of State. We've been over there. We said what the majority said. Of course, the possibility has not been ruled out by this House to define criteria and qualifications for the acquisition of citizenship, but it has limited them, because it has claimed too much, which do not meet the needs of the society in question, as the House considers. So I said at the time that he literally made a supreme court, a judicial authority, also exclusive competence which was in Parliament. I did. I don't want to repeat it. What matters is that there was a strong minority in the decision. And all the lawyers know that case law is not only formed by the rulings of the majority of the courts, but it is also important that minority groups, when they are strong, as they are, thirteen advisors with two, please Vice-Presidents of the two courts. And the minority - I repeat - has ruled that exclusive competence to determine criteria, qualifications and conditions for citizenship is only Parliament. In other words, the House is the competent body and no one else. That's what the minority said. In any case, this draft law seeks to balance between this strict decision by the Council of State and the need to implement a solution to this great problem of citizenship. I am accelerating only one sentence from the minority of the decision of the Council of State: "For the recognition of the status of the Greek citizen..." - and there is no one in the Chamber from the New Democracy to listen to it - "... and when accepting the administration of the Greek citizenship, namely the legal bond of a particular person with the Greek State and not the nation," says the minority "... the Constitution is a special arrangement in paragraph 3 of Article 4, which states precisely that Greek citizens are those qualified by the law." And the law is always a choice of Parliament. In favour of this minority, the historical origin of this constitutional provision is also called for, since from the Constitutions of Epidaurus in 1822, of Astros in 1823, of Troisena in 1827, and these Revolutionary Constitutions explicitly recognized to those who came from abroad the right to acquire Greek citizenship directly on the basis of two unique conditions: or three years or five years' stay in the country and the acquisition of property. No other condition was there. In fact, he did not make any condition in relation to education at all. Because I heard a colleague from the Independent Greeks talking about the subject of compulsory nine-year education and referred to George Karaiskakis as a historical personality of the Revolution, I would like to say to him that - I don't know if he hears us - George Karaiskakis did not go to school at all. Could anyone ever say that he's not a Greek citizen? Let's read it and study it. But most of all from these Constitutions, I refer to the Constitution of 1844, which stipulates: "Citizens are those who have acquired or will acquire the citizens' characteristics under the laws of the State" - no reference to the issue of the nation - "in order, as is apparent from the official minutes, to recognize the lawmaker the widest discretion to determine the citizens' qualifications in the light of the circumstances." Thus, with the award of Greek citizenship - and this must be understood once and for all - a foreigner becomes a Greek citizen, that is, a citizen of the other Greek citizens and not a national who must have the same national conscience as the Greeks. In other words, the Greek national identity, rather than citizenship, is not recognized as a strictly legal concession. In the debate of the draft law on committees, too much has been said about what is happening in the Member States of the European Union. First of all, I refer to the decision of the Council of State to a minority, which reads as follows: in Germany, foreigners acquire German citizenship, only on condition that one of the parents resides for eight years. There is no other condition than the eight-year stay. In the United Kingdom, British nationality is acquired, except for birth, only if one of the two parents is established in the country. In Sweden it is acquired by the minors and Swedish nationals, provided that they are resident for five years, without any other condition. The same happens in France, Portugal and Spain. Not to mention them in detail. There was a lot of talk about the concepts of the people and the nation. If we do this today, we will never finish. What matters is that our Constitution refers to the concept of the people as an expression of popular sovereignty, and that is the only competent definition given under constitutional law. No reference is made to the nation and, of course, the nation can never have a super-legislative value and importance more than popular sovereignty, since our Constitution for popular sovereignty and for the people is based and decided. So, in order to go to special provisions, Mr President, I will omit everything else - it provides for citizenship for foreign children, under the following conditions: firstly, it must have been registered in the first grade of elementary school. Secondly, there should be prior permanent legal residence of one of his parents for five years. Thirdly, the minor foreigner resides permanently in Greece and is entitled if he has completed the nine classes of the Greek school or the six classes of secondary education or if he has finished TEI or HEI. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude and say that the second generation of immigrants actually sets up her life schedule compared with her peers and not her parents. In fact, the second generation is not immigrants. They didn't leave their homeland like their parents. Instead, they live in another country. Only she knows and gradually only recognizes it as theirs. The same is true of children born in their parents' homes, but they grow up in our country. I'm looking forward to the rest, and I'm done. The battle for the fairness of citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, is just beginning with the vote on this bill, and will have successful results if the democratic world, the progressive mind, the progressive people demand documentation, are vigilant and discreet. Because nothing in our country is self-evident and always at the heart of our policy is man. We implement and uphold the philosophical philosophy of "all money metre human", and I also remind you of Aristotle's saying that: "This equality is what is seen in cities, of possessions and of education", that is equality of property, of equality in education. These are the basic things. And since some of them invoke Greek Christian ideals, I will remind them of a saying, Mr Mitafidis, Apostle Paul. “ And he made out of one blood of all mankind. Not a Jew, nor a Greek, nor a slave or a freeer. All to you." To conclude, Mr President, it would be negligent if I did not mention what Manolis Glezos said yesterday to the European Parliament, who, in his address to the European partners, to all the European peoples and the Greeks, said: 'First, first, foreign' - I stress 'foreign' - 'You have started your speech with one mistake when you ask for it. This town is not dominated by a man. She's free. This is where many rule and rotate in office over time. They do not give much more to wealth, and the poor have the same." And it ended by wanting to resign, with the promise of resignation he gave after a year, citing a saying by Thomas Imperialis: "Time hominem unius libri", that is, "fear the man of one book", that is to say, trembling and terrorizing from the point of view of one, monolithic and monolithic. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u89	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesperson of the JRC, asked for the floor and he has it. How long do you want, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u90	I haven't even spoken yesterday. Give me ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u91	I won't put time on you then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u92	I am not tempted because we are already starting with the ancient Greeks now, and it also needs translation, because people don't understand. However, equality in education and life cannot exist when there are exploiters and exploiters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u93	We'll wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Lappa, who are you telling? The same is the child of the worker, the self-employed, the private employee with the industrial worker's child, with the child of the shipowner and all the others? I mean, don't get there now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u95	That's what we're claiming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u96	Unless we're in a bourgeois society, if it was in an abdominal society what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u97	As a claim, I say, Mr. Pafile. She's not a narcissistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u98	Therefore, when using verbs of ancient times, we should remember that they were in specific times, at other times. If you make a reduction to today, see how much children leave school. See how many work and how many work and work from young children, so that they can survive when others were assured and their triceps. We want this society and we need to overthrow and then there can be real equality and when children are born they have the same potential. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I do not want to speak in detail, I will make a few points. Firstly, on the subject of the referendum, as set out in the Juncker text and in the procedure followed, we were not in agreement. We have tabled a proposal, which has been unjustified in procedural terms, but which has been politically rejected by the government. You do not dare now put such a question - we understand it - to put a question to the Greek people, to say 'no' and to the proposal you tabled and 'no' to release from the European Union. You don't dare, for certain reasons. You may say that they are reasons for tactical, but they are essential and deeper. But this is where the forces actually clashed, and the 'no' the next day ended up in a 'yes'. At the negotiating table, together with all those forces you described, as you described them and managed to rally them, regardless of whether they had a shipwreck and they were fine - we have no problem - the other day you have all agreed together, except the Communist Party of Greece. What did you agree with the 'yes' and his 'no' powers? And I do not mean 'no' folk forces in particular, but also in terms of 'yes'. So what did they agree to do next day? They agreed, firstly, on one: that it is the European Union, the euro, and so on. There's nothing else. On this basis, they agreed that we are going to negotiate in there, on this "neck" you denounce every day, to bring a solution, which is described impatiently, but it has a result called the Memorandum. In any case,'memorandum one', 'two', 'three', 'four' - do you want to say it otherwise? - this will contain tough, anti-grass measures, anyway, if there is this agreement. In other words, what has happened is that the people's vote and the condemnation of this policy are ultimately being used in another direction than what has been expressed. And it also has one thing in common: in the name of national unity and non-defaulting, the people are called upon to submit to the European Union, to the monopolies, with this attitude you have taken so far. What did we say? We asked for all three questions to come in, but you did not accept it. And we said that the people should vote void, in the sense of canceling these false dilemmas. We did not make this proposal to measure party influence or to measure votes. After all, within three and four days it was impossible for this position to be promoted, only by the sacrifice of thousands of members and supporters of the JRC and other people, who understood the position we had, regardless of their choice. This position was 'no' to false dilemmas'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u99	We all did the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u100	Don't rush and tickle me! We didn't vote the same. You have voted for the European Union and for dry bread. And that's what you called the people, I mean personally, I'm not saying about the world. Nor will we interpret the votes as they were. One thing has not, however, been voted on by his people 'no', but also by part of 'yes', despite the terror which has been used, as has been known, in the workplaces, etc. He did not authorize anyone to use "no" to bring in a new memorandum. That's clean and everyone sees it. Is this our position confirmed? One will say 'but we got 62%'. Is that true? Are the elections, or are they confirming the reality of the political attitude? Because in 2009 PASOK took 44%, which was a huge percentage. We have said that storms are coming, that wild measures are coming, but we have not yet heard of them. What confirms the political attitude is the very reality, as it develops, always in the light of popular interests themselves. This has so far been confirmed by the joint communiqué, where they are all negotiating together on a common basis, with measures based on the Juncker project, which was rejected by the Greek people. What do we have right now? Is everything broken up? We have two proposals from the government, which were tabled before the referendum. One proposal, which was forty-eight pages, was tabled earlier, and the other, signed by the Prime Minister himself, was tabled later. Differences in these proposals are minimal on individual issues. Strategicly they are the same: they all anticipate savage measures, which you are talking about. Today we are preparing the ground as a whole - not to start and name - for the people to accept, in front of this truly absolute, cynical, shameful extortion made by the European Union and capital, a memorandum to be saved! That is the reality and that confirms what we have been talking about. What we think needs to get into the middle of the conversation - I said two things before - is that the attitude proves...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u101	What does it mean to you...?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u102	Let me tell you, don't challenge me. You went out to the people and told him that if you took the government, you would bring a philosophical agreement within the "cloud alliance". Did you bring her? Oh, no! You lied? Same thing you're talking about today. You will also bring a memorandum and you will say 'We have won!'. If you bring in. I don't know why people play the game. No one understands what I'm saying and I'll say it later. What seems today and where should the people be considered? Is it right that there can be no way out of the crisis, just, for the benefit of the people, within the European Union and with the capitalist development path? Yes or no? I'm not answering it. Secondly, whatever government, as it determines itself, as many intentions as some have, can, in exploitation status and within the European Union, pursue a philosophical policy? Yes or no? The reality shows it. These are the positions of the JRC. Third, is there a people's sovereignty? Because you have raised the referendum in a supreme expression of popular sovereignty. We don't underestimate it. People's sovereignty, when power in the economy has it? People can do it, when the people have the power, and then it can be expressed, not when others keep the keys to the economy and put it somewhere and where to vote and "writing it in their old shoes", in the final analysis or trap it. Fourthly, what democracy are you talking about? I mean, mercy! You are talking about democratic principles in Europe and everything else. What else? Don't you see? Don't you know them all these years? And I don't mean you - you know them very well - I say about the world if he sees what's going on. What democracy did the European Union have? When did he have it? When, since it happened so far? What exactly does it mean by democracy? He served the interests of big capital. He was obliged, because there was another association of forces at the time, there was a labour movement, there was a Soviet Union, to make concessions. Capitalism was in another phase. All this has changed arguably. Does he have a democracy? Does he respect anything or respect anything? Did it kill all peoples here and we still say 'democracy' and 'democracy'? What ultimatum did he give yesterday? Or a memorial or leave! Of course, we want to say that this is not just about the European Union itself. There's a lot of intercourse going on around the globe. Whether they want to drive Greece away or not, in the end, they may not decide either by the government itself or by anyone. They are the interests that conflict, they are the two lines that exist within the European Union, they are what the other imperialist forces play in general and within the European Union. This will determine whether it will be one or the other. However, with your data, to how they seized the referendum: Or a memorandum or a Grexit! That was the answer. So what do we say? We say that it is another thing to decide the way you are going to go, prepare the people and tell them the truth, to take power and free themselves from the European Union and build equal international alliances - as many as they can - and other things are to throw you, in one form or another. Bankruptcy will also be with a memorandum - worse for the Greek people - bankruptcy, also bad, will be with a national currency, without the power change in the economy. That is why - and I shall end with this - we believe that the organisation of the resistance of the people, beyond all the rest and regardless of the developments, is a direct matter. The Greek people must not give in to what they say about unity and division, because it is not the interests of the workers themselves, the working class, the self-employed, the poor farmers with the interests of big businessmen and big capital. It's in the opposite direction and conflict. And if this concept dominates, it will be the subjection of the people to the interests of the great, because they are in the chess board now and play again in many tough terms both inside and abroad. And that was seen by the fact that they were divided into 'yes' and 'no'. Therefore, it must not enter under a foreign flag. He has to organize his struggle, not to submit. The working people's movement itself must take racing initiatives, but also support for the helpless, with fighting committees everywhere, with local committees in the districts, which will fight and be faced with problems. It has already been launched by workers' centres and, at least, by us - without claiming the monopoly - we have access and a majority, by setting up committees for the control of shamefulness and, if there are any shortcomings, by preventing people from starving - because of the developments that we may have - and there is a social class front. We must not dominate the logic of'sacrificing self-sacrificing' - because they can dominate such things - but all together united, workers, self-employed, the people of labor, that is to say, to build a social class front, a social popular alliance, which will go to the real rupture, which means popular power, outside the European Union, with unilateral deletion of the debt, to open up the road - even through these difficulties that exist - for such a rupture and not for lies that lead the people to be bound up with chains, once again. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if some are'surpassing Europe' or if others are declaring - at least within - the October Revolution, the reality is that, that is, that all of you - together and equally - are mocking the tested Greek people. You all have the same ethnic concept, the worship of markets, slavery dependency on the European Union and the Brussels directorate, as well as the obsession and the worship of the euro, as if the euro were not the same, which is a major cause for today's misery of our people, as if the loss of the national currency had no effect on the simultaneous loss, even a trace of national independence. All of you, beyond all morality, would say, legitimisation, try to interpret the clear will of the Greek people, that is to say, to distort the Greek people's proud 'no', the 'no' to subjugation, the 'no' to their subjugation policies, the clear and proud 'no' to the new memorandum. The Greek people once again demonstrated in their three-year history with this 61%, despite the unbearable pressure and propaganda of the media and despite the condolence of the zombie policies, the zombies of the "yes" and "we wait for Europe", that there remains a patriotic people, with high care, with high ideals. What if she experienced forty-one years of climax and levelling? What if he experienced thirty-five years of European slavery and dependency? Greece, as a state, is a country of Europe. Europe, however, is a creation of Greece. The European Union is a transnational agreement. The euro and the euro area are an economic experiment that the Greek people have paid and paid with sacrifices, tears and blood, without any reflection, without any reward. The position of Greek nationalists is clear: 'No' in all the Memorandums! "No" to extortion! Greece lived, grew, spent good and bad times and without euros. It's not panacea the euro. And you know what? Ultimately, why should the people adopt the euro when they have empty pockets and zero national production? The achievement of the aims of the northern nomenclara and those following it became the common objective of your policies, policies of the anti-grass arc, which brought home the lurking and total abandonment of creative productivity. You have made, in other words, a relationship between dependence on the European Union, which is understood by most of you in Greece and outside Greece - and I mean the tachypical cords - have the same direct benefit, since its continuation, since the continuation of this regime that you are cutting off. The nationalists of the Golden Dawn, guided by faith in national identities, the nations of Europe, warn against the devastating effects of your policies for years. Unfortunately for our country and our people - and it is not poor the people of their responsibilities - historically preceded the destructive policies of Simitis, Papandreou, Samaras, as well as the lack of politics and the horror of Karamanlis. Today, the failure of SYRIZA to stand up to the circumstances and to honour the people's mandate gives follow-up to these policies. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece deserves better luck. The Greek people take the bitter antidote and the bitter antidote for the treasons, oligories and the retreat of those who ruled them, but also for their own guilty silence. In this guilty silence, nationalists will not consent. So this concept had the "no" of Sunday. It was the recording of our disagreement with the policies of subjection, slavery, dependence. Against monuments of capitalists and Bolsheviks we oppose our demand, which is also a demand from the nation as a whole, for national dignity and social justice. These principles will continue to be defended and served, and without fear of persecution, murder, terrorism. The Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn Nikolaos Michaloliakos refused to participate in the Council of Political Heads, and his refusal came to be vindicated completely a few hours later, i.e. late last Monday afternoon. Nikos Michaeliakos wrote to the President of the Republic: "The proposal of the Government, which has been tabled in the past, is clear that he is far away from our positions and is a new memorandum. The Golden Dawn does not agree with any negotiation, which does not presuppose that national sovereignty is not transferred and that is refused to be governed by English law. As long as the government does not denounce the memorials and their policy, I do not wish to participate in the Council of Political Heads." Ladies and gentlemen, on Golden Dawn, we nationalists do not give SYRIZA a white check to negotiate the future of the nation, which has proved to be nationally dangerous and irresponsible, so that we have closed banks and an economy in collapse. There is a new treason under way. The "anti-constitutional bow" signs a new memorandum against popular will. The Syrians and ANELs prove to be just as political deceased, as well as their other assistants in the Council, in which they jointly supported New Democracy, PASOK, Potami and the citadel of pluralism, the JRC. The people sent them a very clear warning with the referendum to leave the 'cocks' and to proceed immediately with the abolition of the memorandum, a abolition which they had promised in the election. The mockery, and it was so great that it forced the Theodorakis of Bobola to make moves towards Tsipras, making this proposal that the minutes of the Political Heads of State or Government should not be made public. And I ask, what are they afraid of? Are the Greek people afraid to know the truth? Be careful, because the wrath of the people will be irreversible, it will be catalytic. All of these in the Council have swept into the body of Greece and its defenders of 'yes', but most of all its defenders of 'no'. In fact, irony is that they all blamed and blamed the complexion while they are themselves intertwined. All of them terrorize the people with Grexit. If Grexit doesn't have any impact on lenders, why are they doing this? Greece either within or outside the euro will be charged by 2199 and will pay with its state property. And if this impoverishment of the population continues, it will not only be possible to create profit and productivity, but there will be no state property to repay the debt. It will degrade the value of state-owned property. Debt will be in existence for centuries. The country is doomed by internationally ratified rulers in extinction. This will be inevitable, taking into account the demographic problem, if we combine it with uncontrolled illegal immigration, i.e. illegal emigration of foreigners, without any racial, ideological or religious affinity with the Greek population and from countries of origin where human life has no value. So the legitimisation of these illegal immigrants, the provision of nationality with the inadmissible law which we symbolically smuggled and which we will insult in every legal, institutional and legal way, is equivalent to a thousand memoranda, is equivalent to the disappearance of the Greek nation. Unfavourable situations, ladies and gentlemen, are not always reversible. The Greek illegal immigrants in ten years will vote and will not abstain from voting, since they will have control and guidance from foreign centres, from centres outside the Greek territory. The new President of the Republic may call him Pucky - the "host" - and the habits that will cause the remaining Greeks many questions. The great victory of the irresponsible spirit of freedom of voters 'no' is a guarantee of the future of the country. We are proud that, not indulging in any micro-party feasibility, consistent, as always, in our political positions and opinions, we have contributed to the expression of the tested Greek people, to express its source and suburban spirit, the Greek spirit of 'no'. Some time ago, during the debate in the European Parliament on the Greek issue, where the Greek Prime Minister explained to MEPs how the "no" of the Greek people in the proposal Junker was betrayed and made "yes" with the consent of political parties other than Golden Dawn, the MEPs of the Golden Dawn were the only ones who expressed within the European Parliament the position of the Greek people, claiming that the "no" of this was the refusal to accept other burdensome memorials and accept the further assignment of national sovereignty. In fact, the speech of our MEP, General Electoral Consortium, was a slap towards the President of the European Parliament, the well-known unwilling Sultz. I conclude with a central idea, which is the central idea of our struggle and is not a simple slogan: Lefteria in Greece, not the loan sharks!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Georgios Akritis followed by Athanasia Anagnastopoulou. Your Honor, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill takes place a few days after the historic 'no' which our people have said. There is a lot of talk about what this 'no' means, which has shaken Europe and the world. But you will allow us to think that we who fought for this result are better aware of its importance. It is a 'no' of democracy, but it is also a 'no' of social justice. Besides, the percentages in the country’s labour neighborhoods show. 'No' mainly voted for workers and young people, the unemployed and the poor. Are they concerned with today's bill? If they were to vote again today on this new issue, what would they vote on? What should they vote on if they were to vote on the criterion that they voted on this Sunday? If we ask the parties on the right, they will answer that more rights for immigrants means less rights for Greeks. But is that so? Can we imagine rights as a horn that doesn't have enough bread for everyone? For example, does our right to freedom of opinion take away from others the right of their own opinion or the right of others in their opinion subtract our right to our opinion? It is obvious that this is not the case. The reverse is true. We have a right to our opinion as long as everyone has a right to their opinion. Others have a right to their opinion, because we have the same right. The same applies to the right of children who were born here to have Greek citizenship. Their rights also make our own children's rights stronger. If children who were born and grew up in Greece and have no other homeland and who speak and sing Greek, they are considered as citizens of a second and third category - if they are not even considered citizens - then something is missing from the value of speaking and singing Greek. So, you will allow me to be proud when children with parents of Africans say "Antigon" and be really moved when children with parents from Albania sing the words of the Seferis and not just remember them when they nail an orange ball in the NBA. Even further, if you're born Greek, and you're not, it means generally you're born and you're not, that means it doesn't change what you're born. For example, let's say you're born in a rich family and not in a poor or born by a fireplace and not by a people's family. That's what they tell us it doesn't change. Really? That's the big trick. When they tell us that some children are not born equal to ours, what they want to tell us is that children are not born equally and that our children are not equal to theirs. To accept that rights are a capital that is inherited, we must first accept that capital must be inherited or that inequality must be inherited. We say that no, that inequality should not be inherited. All children should be born equally. We also mean the children of migrants and our own and your own children must be born on an equal footing. With this bill we are taking some steps towards a society with equal rights for all children, that is, equal rights for all people. Some people think they're extreme. It is, it says, communist. I can inform you that the universality of rights is not a concept of the left but of the European Enlightenment. I can inform you that this way of thinking about justice, this idea that inequality must not be inherited, not only for socialists, but also for liberals. I mean, looking to the right side, that by voting against today's bill, you once again prove that you are not liberal and not European. This bill is nothing but an attempt to harmonise with the respective legal frameworks of the countries of Europe. Why don't you look at what's happening in the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, France? Are we not in Europe? Do we belong to Europe, only when the issue is the reduction of pensions and we do not belong to Europe when the issue is the life of children growing next to our children? Do we belong to Europe when it comes to the liberation of redundancies and we do not belong to Europe when it comes to the issue of Syrian refugees? But that's not the problem. Your problem is that, on Sunday, Mr. Meimarakis, instead of standing up with respect to 61.3% of the Greek people, addressed a new ultimatum and threatened us that the bourgeois order would respond very differently. Colleagues, finally, I should like to refer to an amendment tabled concerning the Ministry of Health. It asks him to be given the opportunity to check the operation of hospitals and health centres. As far as health centres are concerned, the transfer of responsibilities has become unprepared to the enlarged regions and serious problems have arisen. That is why this extension is well given until the problem is finally resolved. As far as the administrations of hospitals are concerned, I know that many hospitals are neglected for their own sake and that their function is dependent on staff and administrations alone. What all workers in hospitals require are changes in the administrations that do not fulfil their obligations and even more bring stumbling blocks and difficulties in the problematic functioning of health institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. Mrs Anagnostopoulou Athanasia has the floor and then Mr Christos Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u108	Madam President, Minister, with some years' delay and with a decision of the Council of State to block any legislative initiative on citizenship, one of the most important bills of post-population is being passed in Parliament. If there was no aspiring urgency here to monopolize the interest in society and the media, the citizenship bill should be the top of the debate on highlighting their historical importance. Indeed, this bill is added to the great stations that mark the historic time of the Greek state, stations in which the term "Greek" was expanded in order to adapt to the new historical, social and political realities at a time. Around how and on what criteria was defined by the Greeks were conducted hard conflicts, ideological and class fronts were formed, included or excluded Greeks according to the political context and the realities of the time. If the immigrants are today, they once were the heterogenesians, then the Asia Minor refugees, then the stateless communists. All these cases, very different from each other and products entirely different political realities, show, however, something in common: The Greek nation was not once defined on the basis of blood only, but on the basis of the needs that each time was indicated. In the early years, therefore, after the establishment of the Greek state, the debate, the battle for who is Greek or not focused on locality. The fear of the locals for the expansion of the nation to foreigners, therefore, for the sharing of social and political pie, led to the conflict that remained known in history as a conflict between indigenous and heterogeneous. This difficulty of who is included in the Greeks lasted several years, with the term "Greek" sometimes being expanded and sometimes blocked according to the conditions and that regardless of blood. The great enlargement of the Greek body, however, took place when Eleftherios Venizelos granted the right to vote to the Asia Minor refugees, thus enlarging the nation to these foreigners, many of whom did not speak Greek, did not have Greek education and therefore had no Greek conscience. For their blood, that was only religion by the sacred way testified to it. The newspaper "Kathimerini" was then culminating in its garments that the integration of these strangers - whom he was urging to go home, that is to say, to return to their place - would be a helmet of the nation. Finally, despite the reactions, refugees became Greeks by translating a foreign blood into the Greek nation for the benefit of all. However, there were stations in Greek history where the blood of the nation had to be cleansed from the infections it had suffered. It was the time when you were born Greek, but in the course of the course you came out through political decision. A large number of communists were deprived - and this despite the blood testimonies - of their nationality for reasons of opinion, because conditions required it. None of these decouples saved their blood. And that was a lot of them. They weren't very few. Only in 1974 were Greeks re-entered to the Greek nation, when the Greek state decided that it is the Greek who respects the democratic institutions and the laws of the state, thus re-enlarging the limits of the nation. With the bill to be passed, the Greek nation is relimited in relation to the realities that have formed over the last thirty years. These foreigners who live here who come and fight with us during the revolutionary constitutions pay taxes, respect the democratic institutions and the laws of the state, raise their children in the same cultural, educational environment that grows from bloodshed Greeks, but have not yet had the right to become Greeks. Even the children who graduated from the Greek educational system had to be stateless, because they had the wrong blood, so because of the ideological strangles of the state. This bill is one of the most modernist and reformist bills passed over the last few decades, as only Left can give human content to the terms "modernisation" and "reformation". Greek and you're born and you're done. Democrat Greek, however, only you become. The big bet today is the Greeks, the democrat Europeans. Democrats, without demanding social equality and justice and freedom for all, do not exist. The bill we are debating today is in a direct reference and connection to what is happening in Europe at the moment. What is played at European level is whether the content of the term 'European' will be defined as either national, class or ideological. That's why we're fighting. That is why citizenship and Europe are going together. Before I close, I would like this step of democracy to denounce - and I expected all the parliamentary parties to do so - the break of a democratic code that was observed in these days of the referendum, a code that all Greeks and Greeks agreed to after the elections. This was that, at least the last day before every election campaign, Greeks are free to decide what they want. This code was broken by the big interests, the order that feared losing total control, as expressed by the big channels. I repeat: Greek and born and you become. Democrat Greek, you're only going to be. You're not a European. You're a European. Democrat European, you become through ideological conflict, dialogue and, above all, social consensus. Today we are threatened to flee out of Europe because of political opinions. The "no" of the Greek people on Sunday was also politically insensitive, had a class position and a democratic mood for conflict. You're a democrat, then. They once threw us, dear KKE, out of nation. Today we are going to be accepted to be thrown out of Europe again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u109	Thank you to Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. Mr Christos Mantas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Manda, even though you are a secretary of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u110	I will be briefer, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we will have completed, with a sense of historical responsibility, a democratic and human duty in a short time. We will have sealed the law on Greek citizenship a very important step in Greek society, in Greek reality, in terms of freedom, in terms of our ability to give the people who are around us, to the children born in Greece, to acquire Greek citizenship. It is one of the important moments of this government, even though at these times and these moments others may dominate our thoughts, we may have other struggles and other concerns. However, we have managed - and this is very important - at these very difficult times to take this important step, which we have fought for many years and are doing today. Secondly, I have signed an amendment concerning student relocations with other colleagues. I would like to say a few words about this, so that the landscape can be cleared around this amendment. It is an urgent amendment for two reasons: The first reason is that it clears up the landscape for next year and that has to be done now, because the demands will now be made. Therefore, all concerned must be aware of the new framework, which, as the explanatory statement says, primarily takes social and economic criteria, which are very critical at this time when we are living, due to the obvious weakness of the state in confronting food and housing problems, as it would like to address them and taking into account the possibility of the Higher Education Institutions to operate in substantial terms. At the same time, it solves the problem of the students of Architecture, at least in its largest place, taking into account the decision of the S.H.E., trying to tackle a problem for which neither the students nor the higher education institutions really are responsible. We have been at a difficult time and with this amendment I think that most of it is being dealt with. Finally, I want to say this. Undoubtedly, the moments we live are very critical. However, we must be fully aware that these moments are in any case sealed by the will of the Greek people and - I must say this in another way - by the will of the European people. Those who dream that today's very important process in the European Parliament will be a farewell event for our country are wrong. Despite the difficulties, despite the pressures, we have the possibility, not only because we are generally and vaguely right, but because the solution we are proposing is a solution for both our country and Europe. Without a doubt, it is a difficult solution. But it is a solution that can provide a way out and open up prospects. And I am sure that there is a possibility for realism to prevail and for Europe's peoples to be able to operate in each country in conditions of freedom, in terms of solidarity, in conditions of justice. We do not expect these from the elites and the sworn enemies of democratic rights. However, we also have the opportunity of the Greek people and, with the agreement of the political parties in our country, to claim them and achieve them. Finally, for those who think that within this very tough environment, in this very difficult treaty they will create breaches on the Left, on the SYRIZA and on its parliamentary group, they are long nights away. SYRIZA has shown that in very difficult circumstances it has the maturity and collective procedures to respond, in any case, to what is, above all, in the interests of the Greek people and in the interests of the vast majority of the Greek people, who are these social strata that we represent and which have sealed in the most clear way and the referendum a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Mada. Mr George Galeos, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will be followed. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u112	You usually hear me talking about financial matters. Until now, for some other matters, I have not been to the Greek Parliament. But for Article 1 of this bill, which is an ethnocide, I just want to take the floor and tell you some things. We are concerned at the moment, and the entire Greek people are concerned about the economy. He considers it the biggest problem for Greece. That's fair, because the other guy has no money to eat or has no money to pay his tax, or is deprived of some basic goods. But we've all talked about economics. A circle is too, though very painful. At some point, or else, the exit from this economic cycle will come for Greece. But the big problem for Greece is not the economy. The big problem is demographic. Inheritance, abortion, over sixty thousand children unborn a year, suicides. Over ten thousand people have killed themselves. Immigration. And that's a very big problem. A lot of people have told me that young people are migrating. But I have been told by some older people that "if I was young, I would have migrated too." That's the way it is. Of course, we also have the bill of New Democracy and PASOK, which are fully responsible for it, to see children as evidence of taxation. It's not your fault, gentlemen of SYRIZA. But you're coming right now and you're going over every neo-democrat and all the pimps and you're doing this narcotic bill. I know, Minister. Because you will not have any arguments, as soon as I finish my speech, if you answer me, you will start these vulnerabilities with the nazis, the invasion orders used by some - fortunately only some of your colleagues. Say what you want. I don't care at all. This narcotic bill you're withdrawing to save Greece. I don't want anything else. Madam Minister, look at me, please. Look at me. Do I look like a Swiss native? I'm a Swiss national. Am I a Swiss native? Who can say I'm a Swiss native? I got citizenship in Switzerland. And I'll tell you how I got her. I will tell you what the advanced states are doing, what the first state is doing in Europe and globally. You're going to be an adult and you're making an application for citizenship. Then it takes a year to decide whether or not to make comments or comments the entire community or municipality inhabited. And if they don't exist, they make you run some tests. In the exams you need to know the language, written and oral. You need to know basic issues of Switzerland's geography and history, and you must not owe tax, but also have a white penal record. That's what the advanced states do. Aren't they giving the citizenship gift to some who - may I say something to you, Minister? - they don't even know your name and they'll be Greek natives. That's what's going on. That's what you're doing. I will ask you one last question: do you know why the Western advanced countries, the European Union and America do not invest in Pakistan and Iraq? Maybe only for the oil to do in Iraq. I didn't catch you incapacitated, and I don't know that either. But what I know is that Greece is not going to make any investment, because in twenty years the Prime Minister of Greece will be Pakistan. Well, please think very well. Give citizenship to people who are legally living here, but not citizenship. Citizenship is the only thing. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Galeo. Mr. Vassilis Hadjilambrou, Member of SYRIZA, followed by...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Georgiadis, didn't you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u115	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u116	If he's in a hurry, let him talk. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u117	No, Mr. Georgiadis, excuse me. Here comes Mr. Hatzilabrou. You have the floor for twelve minutes, because you used your dentistry, Mr. Georgiades, yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. We requested yesterday, in agreement with the Group of Independent Greeks, to postpone this debate. And it is here today, Minister, even though this bill is a bill of great interest and can be a field of great ideological conflict - in the good sense, because Parliament is an area of ideological conflict. I too could not be present because I was in the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, but in fact this debate is downgraded and, in my opinion, this request should have been accepted yesterday. So I won't expand on the bill. Our views are well-known, we are voting against it, and we believe that in any case this is not Greece's first priority at the moment. Even if we accept the first debate on how we will help to integrate some people who are legally living in Greece, that is not the number one issue for our country Wednesday noon, when we do not know if we will be a Member State on Monday morning of the European Union. We believe, in other words, that you have both wronged yourself and your bill with today's debate at this juncture. But you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to talk a little bit about the big ones, what really makes Greek citizens fight. Minister, I do not even think that the Prime Minister will not be able to close an agreement until Sunday night. It is absolutely obvious, on the basis of what the Prime Minister said during the election period, but also in his first statement on the night of the referendum and in the joint statement after the Council of Political Heads, that you themselves interpret 62% of last Sunday not as 'no' to the euro, and not 'no' to the European course of the country. Therefore, this week, the Prime Minister is obliged to come by agreement. It has no mandate from anyone - and certainly not from the Greek people - to happen what we were warned of yesterday by all European leaders. Because we really live historical times. Greece is the country which has been the first to become members of the European Union such as Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and the Republic of Cyprus in recent years. All these countries have had as their protector, as their representative for years in the European Union and as their main supporter in their European path Greece. And we risk that, in a few days' time, Greece will be outside the European Union and if we ever want to get back in, we will have to apply behind Albania and behind Skopje. It will be a national monstrous disaster, and I wonder how it goes through your mind to get on your backs this size of historical responsibility for which you certainly do not have the authority of the Greek people. I am not sure that our fellow citizens - certainly you have not explained it to them - what it would mean if on Sunday night the twenty-eight Member Summit made use of Article 7(2) of the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to effectively cancel our participation in the European Union. This would mean practically - and I say this from here to hear from my Greek fellow citizens - that all the money relating to agricultural subsidies, all the money relating to the NRP, all the money relating to the Structural Funds, all the money relating to even the educational programmes of the ERASMUS or programmes dealing with the university research programmes, all the money that our country is going to make in the coming years from the European Union to 2020 is more than EUR 45 billion, without calculating the EUR 35 billion of the Junker package, It will be lost on one night and the money will be committed in favour of the ESM, to which we owe EUR 131 billion. Do you bear the historical responsibility to do that? Do you bear the historical responsibility of what will be the impact on our national issues, if Greece is suddenly on its own against the entire Western world? What international alliance? Even Russia, in which you have made so many trips, has for a few days been making constant announcements with the representatives of Kremlin, the President Putin himself or his Ministers, that Russia wants Greece as a member of the Eurozone and calls on Greece to find them with its creditors. Who? Russia that has been waiting for thousands of our fellow citizens this five-year time that it would be the country that would lend us - says - to get out of the Memorandum. And you have a huge responsibility, Minister. And badly the Prime Minister today went to Strasbourg and made a speech which is a sign of the times. He took the strong, warm approval of Lepen and Farage. Points of time. The first Greek Prime Minister on the Left is being punished in the European Parliament by Lepen and Farage. That's something he should tell you. Something is wrong for Mrs Lepen to applaud you, Minister. You should be concerned about what Mrs Lepen is seeing in Alexis Tsipras' face. Your historical responsibility for these five years is indeed enormous, as many difficult decisions had to be made by the Greek governments. Not only did you never put back on any reform, but you kept telling the people that there was another supposedly easy road, which, if you were to come to power, would take him out of your magic pocket to save our Greek fellow citizens from suffering. We all know that there is no such way today. And just before we hear that you applied for a third memorandum to the ESM of EUR 51 billion. Today we have a signed request from Alexis Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, for a third memorandum. We tell you: bring a deal. We're not like you. We will not do against you what you have done to us over the past five years, because we understand that the common interest of our country is the European path, which no one has the right to suspend on Sunday night. We're not talking about the next survey. We are not talking about who will benefit, even in the next elections. We are talking about at least three to four generations of Greeks and what Greece they live in. This historical responsibility cannot be taken by the Prime Minister and has no such political legitimacy. I repeat. The Prime Minister is constantly referring to the joint decision of the political leaders from Monday's political council. To be clear, this joint statement by the New Democracy only has one character. The political leaders have not entered the measures or details of the agreement. The joint declaration says: 'Mr Prime Minister, you are authorized to bring an agreement'. Nothing else has been said by the New Democracy and nothing else will make us accomplices if those who have been in fact confirmed all this time - and I am not hiding it, because I have been there - that you have had a secret agenda since the beginning and that in fact the so-called dimension between Mr Lafazan and Mr Tsipras, as was presented by the media throughout this period, was nothing but a well-organised theatre. Mr. Lafazanis, in order to gather SYRIZA's Left and Mr. Tsipras with his sweet smile and his shine, can easily take votes from the rest of the urban space to create a majority, whose ultimate goal is to get us out of the European Union. I hope none of this is true. I hope that none of this is true and indeed all the Greeks who are fighting today, all the Greeks who are concerned today, all the Greeks who are currently thinking about who Greece will be on Monday, will be able to know and have confidence in the Prime Minister, that he is not a Prime Minister of SYRIZA, but a Prime Minister of all the Greeks, and he will take responsibility on his back as Prime Minister of the country to keep the country in the European Union. And that can only be done by returning with an agreement, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u119	'Mrs. Minister'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u120	I am referring to Mr. Voutsi now. 'Mr. and Mrs. Minister'. I have no objections, don't worry about it. But it is very important, since you like it, Mrs Catrivanou, that this concept of equality of human rights be taken into account, to think that this kind of equality today exists primarily in the countries of the European Union. And that if you take us to become Syria or Algeria or Egypt, that kind of equality you will not enjoy in the future. So, do not laugh and take very seriously the responsibility you are currently taking on your backs. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u121	So you're going to vote as a Europeanist?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u122	In Europe there are disagreements on such matters, but we respect human rights and equality. You want to make us Syria and Lepen applauds you and you're not ashamed. Lepen has been rescinding Tsipras since this morning in her successive statements. Do you like it? Do you enjoy it? Do you agree? Are you glad to see her repository? Aren't you worried that Mrs. Lepen suddenly acquired Alexis Tsipras as a political model?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u123	Do you blame Lepen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u124	You should think very well, ma'am, where you're going with Greece. I am sure the New Democracy is asking for a debate in this House as soon as possible. We're living historical times. The Prime Minister must come and inform us, inform the Greek Parliament of where we are, how there is a risk, as we heard him last night. It is not the time today to make statements and to remind you that last week the Prime Minister said that he would have an agreement in forty-eight hours. Although the forty-eight hours have elapsed, I will tell you, let it be seventy-two, let it be ninety, but it must be agreed, before the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, that is, the other twenty-seven, take a decision, as we have been warned last night, that is to say, put us out of our European course. This is the greatest historical responsibility SYRIZA assumes. Of course, today's speech by the Prime Minister in the European Parliament certainly did not help. Because he made a speech as if he were speaking in the election, as if he were talking about listening only to his voters in Greece. This is extremely dangerous. There we are not going to hear from our voters in Greece, ladies and gentlemen. There we are going to convince European public opinion, and that is what Mr Tsipras has not done today, and today he has lost such a great opportunity to show the reality to European leaders who love the idea of a united Europe. He also allowed today to fight in the European Parliament and severe accusations against our country. I would therefore like to say to you that if the government's decision is to bring an agreement, the New Democracy will play a constructive role, as a guarantor of the European course of the country, without complicating any mistakes you have made over the last five months, but without doing all that you have done to us. However, if, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you take the historic responsibility of putting Greece out of the European Union, you must be aware that you are also taking responsibility for what will follow and at social level, with the incredible poverty that will come, which none of us have imagined, and for our national issues, which are open to a terrible danger, but also to any other calamity that is finding our place from such a foolish policy. I wish the Prime Minister would make the right decision and come back with an agreement. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u126	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u127	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u128	Two hours ago a graphical, finally, of politics, who, as the party leader, had declared membership of the "yes", without any responsibility for this New Democracy, wrote some incredible things on his blog.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u129	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u130	You know that very well. He even gave the citizens a date Friday morning to enter the ministries and Maximus, to throw us out and save the country from the reproach to leave the European Union. I'm talking about handwriting. If things were reversed, they would say: "Here is your component, who said these things, and so on." I therefore did not expect the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy after two hours, in addition to a role which may well be welcome to help with the difficult, rapid negotiations that have taken place in these days, to take the role of a political accomplice or political apologist or political prosecutor at such a critical time. I want to be very direct. Obviously, you did not hear the speech of the Prime Minister in Strasbourg unless you heard only those who answered it. Because if you had heard it, you would have seen that with a very high degree of clarity, on behalf of all the Greeks, it raised the main issues relating to what our country has suffered after five years of failed interventions and treatments, and how there is a front in the face of the austerity, humanitarian disaster, not to continue this social depreciation that exists in the country, and therefore the search, and through the common intentional declaration, of an honest and socially viable agreement. Around this pattern was the speech by the Prime Minister, who has certainly found incredible accusations against her, from which you have also not taken any distance. You were telling us here about Mrs Lepen and others, which is not about us. But you are concerned that you belong to the European People's Party, where Mr Webber's speech, if I am not mistaken, was a monument of hypocrisy and political misery to our country and to what the Prime Minister said. Perhaps - you have not said this here in the House - they express you or you have not taken any care to get away from what has been said. Also, within twelve minutes, you did not say anything pretext about the fact that, at the moment, the extreme, extreme voices within the European Union, which put a ultimatum and even an hour, 8.30 seconds in the morning of a day to the Greek Government and to the Greek people, Mr Georgiadis, need to be retreated. I would, at least, expect you to say on behalf of your party that, in any case, it takes more comfort to discuss things, that they are not solved with ultimatum, that it is not right for things to be put so biased and vertically, when you have the assurance that Greek proposals were tabled yesterday and yesterday by Eukleidis Tsakalotos and that a set of proposals are tabled on the central direction, in which there has been a broad agreement on the titles - and I agree with you on this - in the Presidential Palace. So there is nothing to be pointed out to the Greek side, namely that we did not want an honest - I repeat - and economically viable agreement. You, for your part, with your speech, which I hope again - I have told you once again - not to express and not to charge your party directly, you are undermining the possibilities for there to be actually a much better agreement than the one that the partners want, and I am sure you are aware - that, throughout Europe and beyond Europe, there is at present a very important debate on who and how he raised what matters, what Greece has to take, how is making use of the decision of the Greek people, what is currently happening on stock exchanges and the economies of the largest countries - you understand what I say - worldwide - and not because of the Greek problem, but because of the general crisis in globalised capitalism. That is to say, issues which create an environment for development on the part of the country in order to make the best possible and economically viable agreement, do not concern you at all. It does not concern you - I repeat - or even in the sense of hypocritical partnership, collapsing, pushing, to those who raise these issues. Unfortunately I did not expect - and I am telling you straight away - something better on your part when, apart from all that you have forgotten, that is, what your party told the European Parliament, what is going on worldwide, what is going on and what is going on, you have forgotten a detail. 61% of the Greek people and their decision three days ago. Hey, I didn't expect that anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u131	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u133	Minister, I'm impressed. And you have impressed me negatively. I have listened very carefully to the speech by the Prime Minister. I know her almost outside. She's been called here four times, the same one. I am sure he may have said exactly the same words, it is the same text.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u134	Same means and the same outside, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u135	Wrong for Greece. Because it's a different audience and we're going to win. Also, Minister, I have heard Mr Weber. Now here's what's going on. Mr. Weber began his speech and asked the Prime Minister for an apologies that your Minister, Mr. Varoufakis, described all European terrorist leaderships and why the Minister of National Defence and your partner, Mr. Kammenos, made various hybrid designations for Europe. You have come here, Minister, and you said to Mr Webber, if I have understood correctly, as an expressioner of the bad policies in Europe and extremes and something like that. Mr Webber, if you did not understand it, spoke on behalf of the European People's Party. It is the majority in the European Parliament. To reach agreement or upside down, to get us out of the European Union, in accordance with the Treaty of Lisbon, Article 7(2) is also voted on by the European Parliament. So what does the Greek Minister of Government say in the Greek Parliament today, who represents a government that is supposed to want to reach an agreement? That the majority leader in the European Parliament is a terrible, extreme representative of the dark circles?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u136	You say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u137	And that's what you think if you say it here in the House and let it pass like this, it won't come out, Minister? Don't you understand how dangerous your tactics are?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Georgiadis, we're not going to join, we're not going to bend the head. Understood?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u139	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u140	We're not gonna bend our head to make us enjoyable. We're not gonna be good. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u141	Or were you planning, Minister, at the beginning of the break and just want to tell the Greek people a nice story about the bad foreigners who are after you? Why listen, Minister, to these arguments on media and international debate, you have been telling us for five and a half months. With this great debate, the one you have achieved for five and a half months and called it the internationalisation of the Greek issue, you took the account of 1.5 billion in January to 8.5 billion and then, in the referendum, no one knows today where this account is and what risks your irresponsibility is for the Greek people. So, Minister, I have to tell you, reverse the argument: do you want to make a deal? If you do not want, you should have told the Greek people before the referendum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u143	Because 62% of you mentioned, according to Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, is 62% 'yes' in Europe and 'yes' in the euro. Unless Mr. Voutsis turns us around and tells us that Mr. Tsipras said on Sunday night that 'I interpret 62% as 'yes' in Europe and 'yes' in the euro has second thoughts and can interpret this 62% as 'no' in Europe and 'no' in the euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u145	But you do not have that right, because, if you want to do this, you should have told the Greek people before Sunday's poll.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u147	So 62% told you: Bring me a better deal within the European Union and within the euro. And be careful, because there's only a few more hours left to know what you've achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u148	We're continuing the process. Mr Vassilis Hadjilambrou has the floor and Mrs Maria Theleritis will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u149	Here, which was necessary to have open procedures at such times in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u150	That is why we want a debate to be held on a pre-dated order tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u151	And with a timely bill, where the general discussion about what Greeks are is turning to us to say two things. Legally, there's going to be an arrangement for who gets citizenship for the world that's been left here. Is that how you become Greek? The story of who becomes Greek, Moraitis, Arvanitis, etc. was made in the common consciousness of a common struggle. Common struggles built the collective consciousness here. Are we giving common fights right now? How does the Greek Parliament defend the referendum decision? How does he defend her? What did the referendum say? 'No' to this ultimatum, better deal. We want to translate it like this. And before this battle comes, what do you come and say? An honorary attitude towards Greece, because he dared to say "no" in the room and "no" in the referendum. And be careful, under extremely difficult conditions to tell an opinion, with closed banks, organised a channel pogrom, which Parliament will have to investigate how this is done, how time is given, how all this is done. In these very difficult circumstances, then, is the term 'no' and the ultimatum adds a second ultimatum and says 'Come here, you said 'no'? This should be punished in the European Union.' And instead of standing by and respecting the decision, what do you say? They were with "no", punish them. We have always been persuasive and with 'yes'. That's what you're talking about right now, when you find the best words to say about the worst of the lenders, about the worst they thought, what? That people are punished and that part of sovereignty should be given. What part of sovereignty? The economic level is clean. Other levels are clean. Is it clear to you that this part of sovereignty must be given? So, people don't vote for it, in other words, to suspend democracy while it's on a programme? That's the question. This has to be supported in every way by the Greek Parliament, regardless of the wing of each Member. That was representative democracy. When you have an authentic popular expression, the lines should probably stand out here than who would run more to support this authentic popular expression. And that will be the criterion tomorrow. We understand that there is a double ultimatum: Or Grexit and we destroy a thousand two things in the economy or a memorandum, which cannot rise, not from Parliament - Parliament is the least - but from society. If the Greeks' tax rating is over - and when I say to the Greeks, I mean the professional, the employee, not much more than the unemployed - what are we talking about? That disaster in society for five years? Are we talking about crisis management right now? Was it a small platoon that the unemployed were doubled? A small error in calculating that Greek GDP is 25% down? With these policies, you are going to face a cumulative global economic crisis, with the instrument of debt and that alone, with its finances and so on. He wants to subdue peoples? What is Parliament's stature? Where will he stand? It will stand next to the Greek people to tell him that despite the blackmailing of the banks, despite the blackmail you accept, there is your Parliament to touch on it and not first and best to go and give the credentials on that side. It is therefore very timely what is at Greek. If you understand it, he's got the resistance in his psychosis. He rose up in very difficult circumstances, in connections, that couldn't be interpreted. Historically that happened. Take his whole story. That's what we want to know to the children who will take citizenship. We don't want to teach them just to have a bank card. We want to give them conscience, not a card or only tax obligations. They've already got one of them. More than that is a attitude of Greek society toward them. This is not European. You are only collecting from Europeans what has to do with euro subsidies, etc. And you think this is the European one. This is not the European one. This is ultimately the essence of a certain group of interests in Europe. It has nothing to do with the millions of people. Let us move on to a referendum, as the various organizations say, on austerity in Germany and France. Is austerity the answer to the crisis for all of Europe? Some people who look forward say 'This people raise this burden for all of us'. I would like to present an amendment concerning businesses, technical companies, in order to sign it - I and Christos Mantas - to tighten up the accession process - and it relates to Article 9 of the Treaty. 4171 - to have the obligation to present data on taxation in another country for profits and activities abroad and to make a responsible statement that it is put here to the tax authorities, to check whether the work they have produced in another country has been taxed so that there is no double non-taxation - double, triple depending on how many countries are involved. I think that we are putting this amendment on the table. Finally, I will leave the amendment again, and you will allow me - not only the bill but also the time at which the Greek people find themselves, precisely because the mistresses and the global economy show something, namely that the team that wins wealth cannot be shortened, that the poor are expanded by millions and that we want to support two ways such an economic and social system. Only the tool will stay the horror. Only the instrument will be the consent of the closed bank, the concern of the citizen. And Parliament must take a clear stand there. It supports the Greek people in their decisions, when they are genuinely taken. It must not say either 'but' or 'never'. He has to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Hatzilabrou. Mrs Maria Theleritis has the floor. Mrs. Chanaka, you'll expect us to finish with the MPs. Here comes Mr. Koschlis. We're going through the protagonists. There are only three and we're almost done. Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister and Mr Minister, on the occasion of these shocking results of the referendum on Sunday, i.e. 62% of the 'no' vote, I would like to refer to an extremely important aspect of this political position of the Greek people. This 'no' sets out a new framework for defending the values of democracy, dignity and solidarity in Europe. The 'no' calls on the European Union to show solidarity with the refugee question and the evolving humanitarian crisis, to support and care for refugees arriving in Europe's ravages and, of course, in Greece. These principles cannot be selective and ad hoc. They should apply equally to all Member States and to all peoples. So 'no' is the expression of our opposition to the deaf ears of the European partners, who refuse to welcome and share support for for forty thousand refugees, a figure which, in the face of all refugees worldwide, is more than fifty million, is really minimal. On what grounds? That they are not reaching their own borders or that immigration policy is a matter that concerns Member States alone. After all, as we are informed by the new Amnesty International report entitled 'European border areas'. Immigration against immigrants and refugees in the Balkans” and on the basis of research carried out by Amnesty International from June 2014 to March 2015, thousands of refugees, asylum seekers and immigrants and migrants, including children making dangerous journeys along the Balkans, suffer violent abuse and extortion in the hands of authorities and criminal gangs, while they have been embarrassed by the failure of the European Union asylum and immigration system, which leaves them trapped, without presence in these countries. I therefore believe that it is important to include these developments and claims and to see Europe's issue back in our debate today, because these developments, on the one hand, identify essential dimensions of democracy and the modern rule of law, which should aim to remove all kinds of exclusion and, on the other, redefine the modern political and ideological context of immigration and the way in which immigrants are treated today. Before I refer to this bill, I would also like to highlight, in my opinion, another more modern, we would say, an ideological framework for immigration. And that is why I would like to start with this quote by Amin Malawi from the 'Murderal Identities'. He says, "Since I left Lebanon in 1976, I do not know how many times I have been asked, with the best intentions of the world, whether I feel more French or more Lebanese. I answer in the same way: and one and the other. I don't do it to keep distances or make myself expensive, but if I did give another answer, I'd be lying. The reason why I am myself and not someone else is that I am on the edge of two countries, two or three languages, of many traditions. That's exactly what defines my identity. Would I be more authentic if I mutilated myself in part of myself?" That's what Malube explains. In other words, he is neither half French nor half Lebanese, because very simply his identity is not subdivided, it is not divided into two or three or in fenced areas. One identity is one single, made of all the elements that have formed it according to a dosage that is never the same from one to the other. But what happens when one claims a more complex identity? What has been happening for years in our country. He ends up marginalized, to the margin, because nothing or almost anything in the laws, policies or attitudes allows him to live in full and harmoniously in this complex identity. We recognise that every individual has rights, such as his or her right to be part of a community and dignity, which does not have nationality. We also recognise that it is our historic task to protect the rights of children of immigrant origin, born and raised in Greece, and they have identified their lives and their course with this place, claiming citizenship, equal participation in the civilisation, as Alephant said. Because we know that fear creates borders and borders of hatred and hatred serves only the oppressors, not the states of law and democracy. Therefore, this harmonious joint coexistence and social cohesion can only be achieved through democracy. Furthermore, the draft law has a particular meaning in today's era, because it highlights the sacrifices of the first generation of migrants and migrants, who, in the dream of a better life for their children, put their personal needs and plans on a second footing, in many cases and human rights. That's exactly what the grandparents and our parents who stayed up to ensure better living conditions for their children did. And here I am not forgetting - and I should like to mention - the African Women's Union, which has been demanding 'no racism from the swing' for ten years. Finally, I believe that this draft law creates the conditions which will help to create a different conscience, a consciousness that will be the culmination of an open evolutionary process of social integration, which is not dependent on the internal cohesion of itself, but on the conditions of preventing the relationship between people and others, as Mr Tsukalas says. Furthermore, it contributes at least potentially to individual freedom, which as a check determines social recruitments for identity, since "whoever freely thinks, thinks well", as King Ferraus says. This is why this bill is of great importance, because it has come to fill a gap created by the decision number 460/2013 of the Council of State, which balances between the need to restore certain rules on citizenship to the second generation and respect the rationale of the decision of the Council of State. This balance is absolutely justified, because perhaps a more radical regulation has offered nothing more and has had an increased risk of being repressed into the Council of State. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, it is necessary to reflect on this. Because in this case symbolic and real defeat would be huge. And how long would this cancellation of the second generation of children who would have seen their applications for a second time stay unreasonable and unreasonable?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Theleritis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Madam President. The draft law also regulates, in addition to citizenship and significant changes to the Migration Code, and these provisions are of great importance because they affect the conditions of the normal social integration of the legal immigration population, which is usually on the sidelines of the political agenda and of course the media. Finally, I think that the adoption of the amendments on the part of the Minister is very important, because in particular, the one regarding the transfer of refugees will resolve several of the problems and persecutions that exist among our fellow citizens, and indeed the inhabitants of the Aegean islands who are solidaritys and who express their solidarity with the refugees arriving at their place, providing assistance and transfer to the centre of towns, so that they are not persecuted because they are mutually.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u156	Mrs. Theleritis, please complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u157	I conclude by saying that 'no' really has a special significance, for precisely democracy and dignity are above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u158	Thank you. Mr Kara Yusuf Aihan has the floor. We shall conclude the prototypes with my colleague, and we shall proceed immediately after four second-guessaries for four minutes. Please set your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, we are only at this sitting of the House a few days after the strong verdict of the Greek people, with the decision that we have made to give the floor directly to decide on the Greek people and to take an active part in the negotiations concerning their future, a few days after his strong verdict, which commanded us to strengthen our efforts to achieve a fair social and economic sustainable solution to the Greek problem, without the mistakes of the past, condemning the Greek economy and without the impoverished austerity that entangles the economy in a global cycle, but also society in a lasting and deep depression. The brave choice of the Greek people was made in conditions of unprecedented pressure with the banks closed, with the majority of the media terrorizing that the choice of 'no' is a break with Europe. Europe is at a critical crossroads. What we call the "Greek crisis" is nothing but the total inability of the Eurozone to find a definitive solution to a self-supported debt crisis. In fact, this is a European problem and not just a Greek problem. A European problem also requires a European solution. European history is a story of conflict, but at the end of compromises. A story of unity and not division. That is why we are talking about 'United Europe' and not 'divided Europe'. So let us talk about Europe, because I see that so-called Europeans in matters such as citizenship are far from being in place for decades in Europe. I feel today that I am fulfilling a duty toward my conscience, but also to familiar persons. It is a duty toward acquaintances and strangers, to the celebrities and silvers, to tens of thousands of young people and young people, who may have been born in every corner of the earth, but have not met any homeland from Greece. The children of those who arrived in our country, asking for a better tomorrow have rights, which in the single Europe are accepted. We cannot defend economic Europe and ignore the Europe of humanism. As well as moral and ideological aspects, there is a realistic approach. But to make it clear again that children born in our country are not immigrants, they have not met another country, they are native. We have an obligation to incorporate them socially and economically, always on an equal footing with the same obligations and rights, with benefits for themselves, but also for the Greek economy and society. These children are entitled to be equal citizens, who will also improve the country's age pyramid, will meet production needs, especially in the province, which unfortunately has been abandoned for many years. A glance at the composition of schools - primary, high school and high school - will convince us of the urgency of the matter. Therefore, the awarding of citizenship is neither a charity nor a privilege. It is, in my opinion, a right for children born and raised in Greece, going to school here, shaping their personality and conscience as members of our society. We know how consciousness is shaped in the first few years since our birth - anyone who does not know it, let me speak with psychologists and other scientists - regardless - from the origin of their parents. The Legislation on citizenship meets the feeling of a large majority of citizens, but also guarantees the conditions of social cohesion and integration. Finally, the coexistence of Thrace's society in the 'no' the other day, despite the attempt to manipulate it by extortion, with intimidation, with proposals for the setting up of inter-party committees for Thrace, the dangers of demographic problem in the region were a resounding 'no', a resounding message to all those who considered and consider even today a sheep part of the local society called a minority. Societies tie them up with common difficulties, common problems and common values and not with common DNA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kara Yusuf Aihan. Mr. Koschalis has the floor, followed by Mrs. Vagueas. Here, Mr. Cossack, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u161	Give me a minute more, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the points contained in the article, which do not serve - in our view - the integration and assimilation of migrants into Greek society, you will allow me to refer to the anguish of all of us, which is to save the economy and the country and to remain in the euro. I think that despite the large majority in favour of 'no', the government is returning to our positions, and despite the fact that it has lately called for the support of the electorate and the political leaders, it has managed to obtain two strong weapons for the negotiations, which are noting the failures of the previous five months and which give it a great and historic opportunity to guarantee the country's economic security, despite its mistakes so far. We as a party have lifted and lifted the burden of this crisis without calculating the political cost. I hope the government will do the same. As far as the draft law is concerned, this is also a matter of national importance, which should be discussed at the highest level among political leaders and a long-term national plan in cooperation with the European Union. In this regard, the performance of Greek citizenship is being used as a means of integration of migrants into the social fabric of our country, which is not working effectively for our immigration policy. The failure of the provisions is seen as a means of achieving our acceptable and common purpose, which is the integration of the new generation into the Greek people. Article 1 establishes a provision which is contrary to Decision 460/2013 of the Council of State, which expressly defines in point 10 that the criterion of parental residence for five years does not substantiate their substantial integration into the Greek society, since it does not combine with other elements that would contribute to the residence of essential characteristics. There is a focus on the parent and we do not consider the integration of the child, which should take into account Greek education, primary and secondary education, so that he is able with an integrated conscience to decide on his own and self-inclusion into the Greek society, culminating in the process of integration. Furthermore, failure shall be extended by the provision of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1b, where the legislator complicates the circumstances, effectively distinguishing between the whole that is supposed to benefit. As regards immigration policy, in paragraph 5 of Article 8, the provision is timeless, according to the international environment and what is evolving in our region, because the wrong messages are sent in many directions, when the increase in illegally entering our country is far more increased. Secondly, the breach of Directive 203/86 on family reunification creates a potential legal gap, since there are no significant prerequisites, such as a focus, income, insurance cover for these categories. A number of points which also concern the prerogatives conferred on the Minister of the Interior on the basis of the last subparagraph of Article 1A(1), as they may willingly replace, abolish or amend residence permits and add new ones. Secondly, Amendment No 176/65 and Amendment No 6. 4251/2014, which, in addition to rescue and transposition under international law, are not penalised for promotion within the country or for facilitating transport. I conclude, Madam President, by omission enough. I will stop on a serious issue, which I believe is a high task for all of us. We have to fight for fertility. The Greek people have seen a significant trend in ageing in recent years and young and young couples do not have the facilities to create families and to have children, which is the future of our people. In Amendment No 226/73, unfortunately, the molecules which are given as an incentive to our citizens fall short of them. I believe that today's consensus with the Heads of State or Government will unite us towards dealing with this issue. We can all work together to give incentives to new families, because this is actually the most crucial issue of national security, which will determine the course of our nation in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Coach. The speaker of SYRIZA, Anna Vaguea, followed by the Member of the Golden Dawn Mr. Hadjisavvas. Mrs. Bajas, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to address the Members of the Golden Dawn and, above all, the speaker, who said that in twenty years' time, the Prime Minister of Greece will be Pakistan. If they were thinking or had this legislation in the United States of America, Barack Obama would not be President today. I would also like to say to you, as well as to colleagues in the New Democracy, and to assure you - I really say it and, if you will, do not make a fuss and listen to me - that you do not love our country, Greece, more than we do. Be sure of that. I want to tell you at the risk of being graphic, that I cry in tears by listening to our National Anthem, as I certainly do many of you, that I cry when I see our flag flowing to the chapels of the Aegean Sea. Besides, homeland and patriotism are very personal and unnegotiable. In my opinion, it is a patriot who does not harm consciously, but instead tries to help with all his powers the place where he was born and grew up, that is, his country, that is, his country. And as the poet said, "stadium is our childhood. To me home is my neighborhood in Larissa, my children's friends and pots with my mother's blooming flowers in our yard. For these memories, I'd also give my life. For the neighborhood in Larissa where I was born and raised, I'd go to fight if I had to. I don't know if this will happen because it runs into my veins of pure Greek blood. In fact, I'll confess something to you. My grandmother, my grandmother's mother, she was a gypsy. It was a gypsy who left it in my village in Rapsani, Lower Olympus. When they left the camp, they forgot about it, they left this kid. That kid adopted it there in the village. This is my grandma. Should we also doubt my own Greekness? Let's see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u164	You're fucked now, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u165	I'm fucked, but that's the truth. I'll talk to you now about Ibrahim. I'd like Ibrahim to be here to speak today instead of me. Ibrahim is a 16 - year - old child born and raised in Greece by Egyptian parents. Last year I played a play at the theatre, Roman Garri's "Life in front of you" and Ibrahim was my co-operator. He's a kid who surprised me. When I came to try him, I didn't think that this kid would speak and write so well Greek, with a great editorial and grammar. I'm telling you the truth. I was surprised by that. Here I really want to congratulate the teachers and teachers of our public education, who under terrible unfavourable conditions are learning the Greek language in these children. Ibrahim in an interview said to him: "I have no final papers to prove who I am." This bill will solve many problems, as so far some who paid had citizenship, while those who did not follow it remained without papers. He said: "I expect my life to change a lot and I want to get citizenship before eighteen. I do not want to go back to Egypt, because I do not know Arabic and those who do not know Arabic there are slaves." So why is Ibrahim also what I feel about Larissa not to feel about Hive, the neighborhood that was born and raised? Why deprive Ibrahim and every Ibrahim of the opportunity to say that Greece is his homeland? Greek and you're born and you're born if you love Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now turn to another matter. I'm going to tell you that many times I've said that I've been staying in the silk mill ten years, and many times I've taken a stand on the immigration issue. I don't take that position back. The silk mill is a neighborhood that is mostly inhabited by immigrants. I assure you that those of the migrants who are integrated, have legal papers and are able to work, are completely law-abiding and are nothing different in their behaviour than us. On the contrary, easy prey for all kinds of infractions are those who live on the sidelines, without legal papers. The right immigration policy - which, unfortunately, has never been implemented so far - is, in my opinion, the policy that incorporates and not the one that is isolated. When you hug someone, you make him better. When you kick him, you give him anger. And anger is a bad counselor. I will close by reading the oath of Alexander the Great, in Opie, Asia, in 324 B.C., before nine thousand officials and prefects of each tribe of Greeks, Persians and Medes. "I wish you now that the wars are over, be happy with peace. All mortals, from now on, live like a people, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has Consider your inhabited country with common laws, where perfect rulers will rule, regardless of race. I don't separate people, like narrow-minded people, into Greeks and barbarians. I don't care about the origin of the citizens or the race that was born. I share them with only one criterion, virtue. For me, every good stranger is Greek and every evil Greek is worse than barbaric. If you ever get differences, you'll never resort to guns. but you will resolve them peacefully. In need, I'll be your referee. God must not think of him as an authoritarian ruler, but as a common father of all of us, so that your conduct looks like the life of brothers and sisters in the family. For my part, I consider everyone equal, white and glamorous, and I would like you not only to be nationals of my Commonwealth, but to be shareholders, all partners. As long as it goes through my hand, I will try to bring about what I promise." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u168	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the historical facts mentioned, which have nothing to do with reality. First, the oath of the Oppeal of Alexander is not mentioned anywhere in the Arriane and any ancient source, but in the False - Callisthei. Written in the 3rd century A.D. It is the same text that speaks of people who have dog wings and heads. It has nothing to do with the historical truth of the famous oath of Oppe, which the Great Alexander allegedly said. As far as Isocrates and 'the close education participants' are concerned, they are a complete distortion of the ancient rhetoric. It was a reason, "Panagyriou", which was written on the occasion of the centimetre Olympiad, which called on all Greeks to fight the barbarians in unity. And this cut refers to atmospheric education and says that we have come to be seen as only Greeks who possess atmospheric education. Let the distortion of history finally stop! As for how internationalist he was and how he was in the mood to view the barbarians who had Greek education - who did not exist at the time - Greeks, there is a specific reference to "Panagyri" in paragraph below, where he points out that he calls all Greeks into unity in order to make barbaric residents. "The barbarians speak," says Isocrates, whom some call as a preacher of anti-racism. We talked about citizenship. The honourable Member said earlier about Barack Obama. Barack Obama should know that it is the result of an inhuman act of what racism is, that is, exploitation of man by man, slave traders. But you forgot something else, that in America there are natives. They are the Indians, who some invaders, illegal immigrants, if you like, Anglo-Saxons, Germans and others, have systematically led them to extermination. We present Greeks are the natives of this country and that's what we want to protect! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Also, in his speech yesterday one of the League’s speakers mentioned a point of the Constitution of the First National Assembly, which states that they have the right to citizenship of those born in another place. But who was he referring to? Who did he mean? Do you know each other? The Greeks from Thessaly, Macedonia, Thrace! These were the famous heteroshes. And for those who do not know it, when the 1909 Revolution took place and was appointed Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos could not be sworn because he was not a Greek citizen and a certificate was issued with witnesses that his father had fought in the 1821 Revolution, in the battle of the Miles, so he took the Greek citizenship and became the Prime Minister. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the decision of the Council of State, which abolished the Ragosi Act and which attributes said that there are no rights to parliamentarians and they are not uncontrolled to determine what the nation of the Greeks is and to give the status of the citizen of this country. He said that the nation is a particular entity with generational tradition. Contrary to what has been said, Greek citizenship cannot in fact be given, in fact, the word 'nationality', a word which was introduced by the first word - and that is mentioned in the 'Greek language' of Babiniotis - in 1848 by translation from the French language. On the contrary, the word "indigenous" is homogeneous and shows precisely the origin. Greeks, then, are those who are born Greeks and you cannot change this by any law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u170	We're continuing with Mr. Hajisavva. The House will have the floor lately - so we want to call it - Mrs Stavoulis Aphrodite. You have the floor for four minutes, Mr. Hajisavva.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard the SYRIZA MPs say that the Microcites, the Arvanites and the Pontius are foreigners and compare them to the immigrants who are currently coming to our country. I will not go into this because I cannot make it in four minutes. I just want to ask something else. You said yesterday that there is an uprising coming. In what areas is there an uprising coming? You said we'd feed them and calm them down. If tomorrow, tomorrow, with what the Greek people are experiencing, can we not feed them what will happen? Do the local residents know there that there is a rebellion coming? Can we deal with her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u172	Shall we say it and testify? We can't say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u173	The Minister said so, and because she doesn't answer me when I ask questions, I ask now, let her answer. The pretext is that this bill is humanitarian. You're lying and I'll tell you why. This is where you discussed at some point changing article 83 of the v. It is true that the European Union is not a member of the European Union, but a Member of the European Parliament, who is a member of the European Parliament, who is a member of the European Parliament, who is a member of the European Parliament, who is a member of the European Parliament, who is a member of the European Parliament. Of course, here you say about those who are going inside the country. Why don't you do it in the other prefectures that are exit gates, such as Kilkis, that they can climb the trains, buses and whatever they find and leave the country? Why would the police stop the train, take them down and keep them in our country? You know what's going on in Kilkis? Six thousand will be relaunched in the next few months only by Serbia. And you make the mistake of putting refugees and immigrants in the same bag and they think they all win the rights of refugees. But refugees are losing their rights. They have Syrians there, who have the mafia of Pakistani and Afghans, who have camped and do not want to leave, robbed them. They'll come back after them without money, and then we'll see what happens in Kilkis. We will see what happens when in a village with seventy-five inhabitants there are five hundred with six hundred immigrants - as they go through now, but now they have money - without money and we will blame the people there for being xenophobic and racist! We have heard terrible arguments that they are fans of national Greece and that they have genuine ties. Who? The first and second generations? The third generation is the jihadists in England, France and the other countries, which have been examples. I did not actually expect to hear from the SYRIZA rapporteur such a racist reason and arguments that we would give them the paper of citizenship, so we would push them into easier integration. We will put them all in a machine, we will abolish cultures, cultures and languages and they will become all Greeks, they do not want to. Soon we will hear you say that we must release the city as well, so that we can have more space for foreigners.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u174	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u175	I expect to hear it from you too. That's all you told us. A nation you remembered, a country you remembered. To answer Mrs Vaguea, the United States of America, apart from the example of Obama, do not forget that they have taken Father Bush and Bush twice. This contributory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u176	Obama would never have been taken off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u177	Good. That's what you say. Of course, your goal, to tell the truth, is to change the electorate. In Kilkis, a complaint had been made earlier by journalist Triantafylopoulos - of course, it was the first time that New Democracy handed over the government to PASOK, and secondly it was with Giorgakis Papandreou and the Memorandum - that in the election sections of Kilkis, where all these illegal Greekisms, as reported, took the PASOK 70% to 80%. Now 70% to 80% get SYRIZA, so it's good. Of course, it is understandable and yet another thing that many do not know about it is that certain legal offices are ready to deal with the so many thousands that will need their services, naturally rewarded. In conclusion, I would like to say that our position is in favour of the Greeks. We're close to their problems. All the rest that you create will be found in front of you, whether you like it or not. Sadly, however, in the last few years with your criminal policies, you have neither been born nor become, you are only dying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u178	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Hadjisavva.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u181	Mrs. Stuboulis, just give me a second. Mrs Chanaka, you have the floor on staff, as you requested, for just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Madam President. To be recorded in the Minutes and because last night there were not many MPs in Parliament and also because I think that the racist word is not allowed in this House, I would like to mention that in the Minutes of this House on page 245 Mr Pope seems to say in applause from the SYRIZA Wing: 'What do you applaud? Are you serious? You are not human.’ It is obvious once again how racist and fascist the Golden Dawn party is. I would ask that this sentence be deleted from the Minutes, and that the representative of the Golden Dawn be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u183	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u184	Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u185	I very much appreciate the work of stenographers and recorders. You're not serious people, I said. Now, if it's become a mistake and you're caught by a word to make things in here, it's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u186	It should therefore be corrected in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u187	Correct it in the Minutes and record what Mr Pappas said. Mrs Stavroulis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, Minister, I did not intend to refer to the referendum, but to the attitude of the representatives of the neoliberal European governments and the referral to Breech by a previous colleague, is it my intention to note that the Presidents of the Commission, the Eurogroup and even the European Parliament - really what the other social democrats say about this? - they would like to abolish the Greek people and elect another. The same will be true of the Spanish, Portuguese, Irish and any other people who express their will in the coming months. Only, however they want to, can't, even if the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman is on the other side, thinking that he gets forgiveness for his own indulgence, as he thinks he exposes the Prime Minister by deceiving Mrs Lepen and her potential or unlikely applause. Really, a fan of the LAOS you come from, isn't it, Mr. Georgiadis? Such a spit on your political origin? But how unconscious!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u189	I'll answer everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u190	This bill ensures, under certain conditions, the acquisition of Greek citizenship by children of migrants born in Greece or arriving here quite small to attend the Greek school successfully, states the text...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u192	Well, before you asked for the floor. Wait till I'm done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u193	I am addressing the President. I want to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u194	...of the law and I cannot ask for the commitment of the relevant ministers that since this "successfully" has not been omitted, it will be determined by interpretative circular for children with learning difficulties and for children with disabilities. It is not the only atmosphere of this bill, which, in order to align itself with the Council of State's decision, was found behind the best traditions of this nation, which was formed through the uprising of those inhabitants of a theocratic empire, who did not want to be second-class nationals, but first-class citizens of a free country. And that's why they probably recognized this quality very easily and quickly to anyone who asked it, as stated in King's precursor city and the Constitutions of the Greek Revolution. Nonetheless, the bill is criticised by Prospective Opposition, which seeks to stifle protection from school leakage, when we know that school leakage is related to poverty and shifts to find work, and that is why the school leakage of specific groups of Greek citizens has little to do with it. Would it not be worth mentioning to those who call for the right of blood, a concept that corresponds to a social organisation at the level of race, beacon or even a medieval feud, but not a modern society, if they didn't mean their own blood, clean, chosen, even blue? Because for the blood of the others, who have spilled abundantly and are still spilling if their gangs find opportunity, I expect Greek justice to bear responsibility in every direction. Of course I prefer to be a compatriot for Odysseus, whose mixture of jealousy and racism in a northern Helladic town forced him to be expatriated for the second time in a country in which, however distortingly we regard the criteria for assessing the qualifications of each of its residents, only their origins are not related and where the leaders are able to see beyond the NBA. Like also, I prefer to have my compatriot Sonila, who suffered the same in a town of southern Greece and met her a few years later at the anti-racist Thessaloniki festival, student at PAMAK. I am sure that right now she is experiencing the same problems and hopes as her peers and peers across the country and I want from this Step to wish her the best. Yes, I prefer these children to my compatriots and compatriots, rather than some unexplained kind of "Erethotus", they swear Anna Frank, they admire Netanyahu, now they've been psychotic and the Indians and they come here, in a sense of oath, complain about their rights and then they have the courage to mock the President of the Republic. Mercy! I have a reference to the fifth part of the bill, in which the establishment of a Public Power Corporation is decided, namely a very useful instrument for intervention in an area concerning the everyday life of the people of the country, the protection of the environment and the balance of international relations. The protection of a resource, such as the cultivated high productivity land, even irrigated by projects financed by the ESRB, from the destructive route of the Transistrian Natural Gas, the well-known TAP, the protection of residents against nuisance, pollution and accident risk from the placement of the giant compressor within a short distance of residential areas, would not be ignored by a public undertaking, with the lightness with which they are ignored by the manufacturers of that pipeline, at least so far. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] I am also sure that a public undertaking would not submit consultation reports, which, once we have been aware of - the application for documents has been made for about two weeks now - we will be able to judge whether they give rise to the intense reactions of the people - at least the Regional Units of Serres and Kavala, which we have a direct understanding of bystanders and impersonators - or whether they are rounding them up, avoiding them, and informing the Minister responsible of their adoption. Of course, a public company would otherwise face the alternative proposal of the relevant citizens' movement, which, over and above themselves, replaced TEE, Services and Regions who dare not escape the manufacturers' choices, with an honourable exception of the GEOTE of Eastern Macedonia. It is a necessary tool, therefore, that enables the state to prescribe options, to define developments in the public interest and not to run behind methadones that serve the interests of those who promote them closely. And as such, it must be voted in favour. If that's how some people's neoliberal ideas are being smacked, the worse for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Georgiadis has asked for the floor. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u196	I'm going to need less, Mr. President. I want to answer the personal question. My colleague is not well aware of the political history of each of us in the Chamber. The People's Orthodox Alert has nothing to do with Lepen. Absolutely nothing. Mr. Vorides had an affair before he came to the People's Orthodox Alert and, to come to the Popular Orthodox Alert, interrupted these relationships. But I would remind you that the People's Orthodox Alert belonged to another group, which was different. He was never with Lepen, I'm telling you. Never. I am sure Mr Vorides has never enjoyed the applause today from Mrs Lepenn. Never. Because you said "the alleged," I will read to you what Mrs Lepenn wrote on her twitter. He devotes it to Alexis Tsipras, he has also done him hashtag: "Lords, the referendum in Greece for austerity marks the return of politics to its most noble concept". And he's doing it on Alexis Tsipras. So, applause is not hypothetical. It's visual, too. It's written. Now, if you don't worry because Mrs Lepenn, as I told you before, she applauds you with so much warmth, I would be worried about your position. Something's wrong. Unless Mrs. Lepenn suddenly got good. If Mrs. Leppen got good, why did you blame Vorides for all these years? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u197	He's a bumper, isn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u198	You'll allow me. Now you're political friends and allies hard. Now you represent Lepenne's ideas, which in the European Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, if you respond, it will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u200	Mrs. Bajas, I'm addressing you. I did it in my protology. Maybe you weren't here. And I say it because I appreciate you very much on a personal level. Leave Ancient Greece out of the conversation. First of all, the oath in Opie is known in all the philosophy that it is a fake and has nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u201	He's very handsome, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u202	If you like it, it's your right. Whether Alexander the Great told him is another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Georgiadis, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u204	On the contrary, there is a whole oath study in Oppa and there is not even a question. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] The distinction of white and black man was not at all in Greek antiquity. She was unknown as a discrepancy. It didn't exist. [[Noise in the Chamber]] On the contrary, I could bring you a hundred villages. I will mention only one, not to bring a hundred: Diogenes Laertius, "Biological Philosophers", 1st book, the dialogue of the Harassment, the Scythian angry, with Solon. There is a 'Kaktos' version. Look at it, if you like it. There Anachares asks Solon to become his foreigner, his guest in Athens. Solon responds to him: "Knowledge", that is to say to need the Xenion Dion, "every man can only have within his own patron." These were the perceptions of the ancient Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u205	Not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u206	If you want to have other opinions, it is your right, but do not load them in Ancient Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u207	Do you represent all the ancient Greeks? For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Georgiadis, thank you very much. Be well. Madam Minister, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u209	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u210	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u211	Now that I think all the speakers and all the speakers are finished, I would like to thank the House for the debate that has been taking place these days and for the dialogue that has been developed in committee, for the arguments that have been exchanged. I think that this bill, as I understood from the vote at first reading, will become a law. What we are seeking through the administration of citizenship is to give citizens the status of second generation children and foreigners of the first generation who claim this status through naturalisation. On this occasion, I would like to stress that all these people so far are nationals of our country, that is to say, they have only obligations and subjection to the ruler, who is the Greek state, who has been dealing with them all this time with suspicion. With citizenship they will acquire the status of the citizen, because that is the only way to recognise our Greek law, the Code of Citizenship. There is no citizenship anymore, because we're supposed to have democracy and we have it. We have a constitution that defines all of these and those who respect the Constitution, I refer to Rule 4(3), which says that the House is responsible for judging and deciding on what qualifications a Greek citizen becomes. I have facilitated as much as I could for this provision to be voted on, and I would like to say that I did so thanks to the cooperation and kindness and coolness that Mr Georgiotis had in the committee. I do not want to deprive anyone of the satisfaction of voting on Article 1, since it disagrees with the first version, of the children born in our country. Finally, I think that we are indeed at a critical juncture as a country and what we are claiming is that Europe should listen to us as citizens, whether we voted 'yes' or 'no', because we want to be part of this Europe and do not want our exclusion, and we do not want to exclude the weak. Because they think we're a weak country, they want to rule us out. We therefore want this opportunity to link this and say that it is a flagrant day again when the law on citizenship is passed, because it is linked to this critical time when the people said 'no', which the people claim to take luck in their hands and which we all claim to be citizens and to be heard, not to decide on our behalf. Thank you again, everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u212	PASOK Parliamentary Representative Koutsikoukos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is indeed a progressive intersection. Unfortunately it was overshadowed by the juncture, because the hours are very critical indeed. I would say that few of the majority Members dealt with the bill. Not to blame anyone, to say I didn't hear everyone. However, most of the people have been involved in hailing the people's decision in this Chamber on Sunday. I wanted to distinguish the position of Professor Zouraris, who spoke to us about how a small child was formed in the classroom, regardless of which nationality or colour his parents have. He gave us a lesson. I would like to tell you that in 2010, when we introduced this law and voted for it in the House, we also then faced this far-right and fascist rhetoric, this message of hatred and division. We all have to stand up for a stature, a progressive front, another culture, another society of values toward these logics that have divided and bloody the world into the name of purity. This must be a clear message. Since the current Minister, Mr Voutsis, referred to the juncture, like the majority of SYRIZA Members, downgrading them without wanting the value of the bill, I would like to make some political comments. Ladies and gentlemen, it is your right to highlight the nature of the people's vote on Sunday, but not the way you do it, with empathy and complaints, because the moments require understanding and national unity. In addition, Mr Tsipras on Sunday evening, but also at the Conference of Heads on Monday, gave the precise content of the will of the people, that the message is not a break, but a negotiation on an agreement that will keep our country within Europe and the euro. We have accepted this position in good faith. We have authorized him to negotiate and said that we will help with all the forces we have. Mrs. Birthday went to the Summit of Socialist leaders, who invited her and analyzed reality in Greece. He said about the sacrifices of the Greek people in these five years and asked to support the Greek Government in seeking an agreement that would keep our country alive. Mr. Tsipras is committed to bringing an agreement within eight hours. Maybe it was a verbal acrobatic. We don't care. Let it not be forty-eight, let it be seventy-eight. Well, he didn't come back with a deal. Come back with an ultimatum. And not to look again at the responsibilities of our partners because they had spoken the previous time with them, as was said yesterday, and there was a advance. In any case, he has committed himself to presenting his proposals. I just learned that he sent the first letter to the Support Mechanism, to the ESM. Ladies and gentlemen, because the hours are critical, because the mandate and message of the Greek people are very clear, we demand that the Prime Minister, as promised by the Conference of Heads, inform the parties in detail of the Greek Government's proposals and the alternatives, because we do not want to take action with regularism and averts at the last minute that will deprive us of the opportunity to make any political decisions and to intervene in the developments. We must, in other words, find ourselves out of the euro without any possibility of interfering, precisely because they are looking for comrades, either in the agreement or in the way of the exit. PASOK hasn't given anyone a white check. It can't be because he's paid the cost of his decisions. Responsibility for the country's stay decision within the euro shall be assumed. But first, the Prime Minister, the Government and the Government P and the plan must be clear about how we go to reach this agreement, because there are a lot of technical and tactics to go and charge others what you might want. I repeat, so that there are no misunderstandings: we accept what Mr Tsipras said, that he wants an agreement. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must not overlook the fact that there are extremes within Greece, within SYRIZA and within Europe. I heard Mr Voutsi earlier referring to Mr Tsipras' shocking speech in the European Parliament. He's the leader of his resignation, so he had to. Mr Tsipras had an obligation today, like Mr Voutsis, to send a number of messages. But it did not do so by this Step, and Mr Tsipras did not do so, to tell the extremists, to tell Mrs Lepen, who was applauding with the others, with Farage, that if they wanted to take their own countries out of the euro. Mrs Lepenn should take France out of the euro and make no suggestions to Greece. Because staying in the euro is a strategic choice for our country, which the people have paid for, it is a acquis and we will not allow anyone to question it. So, ladies and gentlemen, no secret agendas, no double plans. To isolate the interests that they want to turn our country into the drachma, to speculate against the ordinary, the poor Greek citizen. Because the rich, the cozy, those who have their profits abroad and the damages in Greece, will surely be the only ones to benefit if a "accident" occurs. The rest will be the ones who will pay very heavy the price of a national disaster. We are not just going to agree on this, but we will exercise as much power as the Greek people - with this small parliamentary force as we have - to prevent it. However, we call on Mr Tsipras not to extend the anxiety of the Greek people any longer, but to clearly present his proposals, his alternatives and his final plan to the Greek people and the parties that have accepted the responsibility to support the prospect of an agreement that will bring the country out of the stall in which it sinks every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Theocharis has the floor. You will allow me to point out, as restrained as I can, that we have a specific issue today. If the whole year is spent on the more general issue, what about the bill we're discussing? Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered to discuss an important, positive bill, a bill that symbolically binds us more with the European acquis. It is a bill that helps get in order in an area that many of our fellow citizens, young children who grew up here or who were born in our country, faced the unjust and often momentary distinction between the state and society. We have also made specific proposals for improvement in the committee in the course of discussion and processing - some have been accepted - in particular, for Article 1, which describes the procedure for giving citizenship to foreign children. We objected and objected to the way in which this citizenship was achieved, which is described in the article. We believe, in Potami, that simple registration in the first grade is not enough to document citizenship. On the contrary, the completion of primary school is an important sign of the integration of the child into Greek education and society. Furthermore, the five-year residence of parents, mentioned as a prerequisite for citizenship, is not an indication of the degree of integration of the child into society. We therefore asked for the child's five-year residence to be removed before birth as a condition for the child's nationality. Of course, the legal residence of one of the parents in the country at birth and at the time of submission of the application remains as such in our proposal. In our proposal, therefore, we place the child at the centre of interest and his integration into Greek society - for us, this is the important thing - of course we call on the government to accept these changes that we are proposing again. However, if you do not do so, as is your decision, we would like to stress that we will vote on this article. I would also like to refer to Article 13 on the establishment of the Public Energy Investment Company. We note that it concerns a matter that is irrelevant to the subject matter of the bill. The reason given by the Minister for Productive Reconstruction his summary in this bill has ceased to exist. It had to come in at all, as the memorandum of cooperation needed it. However, the memorandum of cooperation on the creation of the southern European pipeline has already been signed on 18 June. Furthermore, we want to emphasise our deepest objection to the creation of another state-owned company, which, as it appears in Article 13, will be fully controlled by the Ministry and which will come to attempt on a market where there are already private and mixed companies and, more generally, turns us back to the importance of the state's role as a businessman, a role which is controversial and many times also in the problems of understanding with our European partners for a support programme. So the creation of such state-owned companies is a sample of the post-multiple culture, it is a sample of your mindset, it is a sample of the mindset of bankruptcy, bankruptcy, the one that led us here. But you have failed us, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget. And if PPC is currently not importing electricity from Bulgaria, because as a related company it is afraid to make its money in Germany, because some may confiscate them, this is a result of bankruptcy, that since June 30th, since July, legal offices have been working to find out where there are accounts between ELPE and PPC and other public-owned companies abroad that are easier to grab and take this money. EFSF has triggered the cruciform bankruptcy clauses - and many thought it would take a month to do so, because Mrs Lagard would notify the board of directors in a month -- now she has the right to sell the property of the Greek State, the GOI. This is not dignity for the state. That's not dignity!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u216	Who signed these?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u217	You're the one who let bankruptcy apply. And that's what matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u218	Did we do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u219	And the one who signed them is of importance, but the one who signed them has also brought 140 billion. It wasn't me and I'm not the one to apologize for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u220	Weren't you anywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u221	Nowhere was I in any political position in the previous government. There's been damage to the place. People are scared. If you don't hear it, you're wrong. The phones have been broken these days: “What will happen? Where are we going? What's gonna happen? What are we going to do?" Stop! Don't you see the cliff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u222	You didn't tell them why they voted 61%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u223	Because you convinced them you wouldn't take them to the cliff. They believed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u224	Two days?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u225	They're gonna pay for that, too? They'll pay, why did they believe SYRIZA he didn't send them to the cliff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u226	Can we have a referendum again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u227	Is that their offense? So you're gonna throw them in a kick to Kaidas because they believed you? Is that the logic?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u228	So easy to trick an entire people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u229	You don't have a dialogue now, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u230	The referendum is over. We are not now having an election campaign. You got the support you asked for. You also asked for the support from the political leaders. We gave it to you, like others. You have no excuse. The Greek Prime Minister said: "If I get support from the Greek people, I will bring an agreement. They'll listen to me. That is what I lack." If he does not bring an agreement, he is accountable, because that is what he asked the Greek people. He said that's enough. He did not say that "may be brought, depending on how the Europeans will think about it". He said 62% or more is enough to bring an agreement. It will also be accountable to the Greek people and to history, which will be irreversible. What would we do, that is, if the Europeans' response to the referendum were to accept fully the government's positions and give us a white card to write a deal, accept it in full and then take it to eighteen referendums, and if our eighteenth agreement goes through, then they would give it to us? We waited eighteen referendums, three months? Is the banks that closed down and the unsurpassed destruction the same size as 13% or 23% in VAT? Is the EUR 30 from the supplementary pension that can be cut off to someone the same as the humiliation he has every day to get the fifty and sixty? Is that the same size class? 20% poverty is the same as 80%? It's not the same. The country must somehow return to normality. We support you and we do everything we can to make this happen. You can't judge us for that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few more seconds, Mr. President. Because we are told that you have ready and deeds of legislation or plan II if the negotiations do not work, to create a General Secretariat for Imports, please be disproved. All the people who want to import something, a raw material should apply before they do. And, of course, state-owned banks, deposit haircuts, and all that. We've reached the edge of the cliff. Yesterday the message was given by all the Prime Ministers and the counterparts. On Sunday we hold a meeting with the twenty-eight. This session is not a good meeting for the interests of the country. It's a meeting to safeguard the exit side effects. You have no right to leave the euro. If you cannot stand, quit, make other moves, but you have no right, it is a national betrayal to leave the euro! You have no authority! You can't go to the drachma!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u231	National treason? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u232	Even the President of the Republic will have to react!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u233	It's a diversion you're threatening us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u234	You had no credibility. Fortunately you sent the Treasury Minister on request from the lenders. Fortunately! Looks like you're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Comrade, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u236	I'm done. Today you also wrote to the ESS about the new programme, the new memorandum. You're asking for 51 billion. That's good. Take small steps. Bring measures for funding. You said next week we'd see VAT and the rest. Short-term initials and the large financing programme. Do what we have to do to regain confidence and keep the country from the cliff. Here we are to help you with all our powers and with our contacts and whatever you need so that we can not leave to the cliff. That's where you lead us. We're not leaving that! We won't let the country go! It'll be the beginnings of difficult times. Take it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs are following. Please warmly stay on the issue of the bill. At least the rapporteurs should stay on the subject we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u238	We don't want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u239	And we gave up the right to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u240	You don't want to? Here I have the list of rapporteurs with the obligation to invite you. If you don't want to, even better. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I asked for the floor when the Bureau spoke to the rapporteurs. I would like us to put on the amendments, not all of them, but at least for what we consider to be more important. Firstly, it is unacceptable - and we said yesterday - that there should be last minute parliamentary, ministerial - mainly parliamentary this time - delayed amendments. I think the government has enormous responsibilities, because during the previous parliamentary term we were dealing with the same situation from the previous government, which we complained, complained, and so on. But the same question is followed by you as government now. You are no longer bringing into a bill of irrelevant amendments, for which you exclude our amendment, which goes to solve issues of over two hundred and fifty thousand farmers and which, yes, does not have anything to do with the bill, while the others - supposedly - have! I'm hanging up with this. As far as Amendment No 172 is concerned, and I would like to say that although it contains heterogeneous regulations, it facilitates - and even few - certain immigrants on some individual issues, with whatever balls of the amendment, which deal with dealing with the extremely sharp, dramatic problems of living for refugees and migrants who come to Greece and we will be positive. As far as the amendment to the payment of hospital obligations is concerned, no one reasonably objects to these costs being paid off. But for anyone who has read the amendment, we want in this direction to highlight a number of issues. Firstly, it is the seventh or eighth time that such amendments for hospital spending, not from the present government, are coming, I mean from the previous coup d'état. And of course SYRIZA criticised the then government for the competitions. The amendment now, as has already been said, gives the possibility of exceptionally including and paying costs only with the invoice. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] There are some questions here: First, do we have to take the responsibility of handling or paying, if you want, these costs in this form, in invoices? And now it's about the hospital's extra-contractual expenses. And one issue arises from the report of the State Accounting Office itself, which refers to the means and says that in particular, the amount of expenditure cannot be determined, since the data required by the relevant Ministry were not provided. So we are called upon to vote for a sum - how much we do not know - in order to serve the reimbursement of hospital expenses. This is what we will say'residents', not to blame with 'no' that we do not want the hospitals to be paid for, because that is what we are going to hear. As we have heard all the previous time the specula about our positioning in the bill, at the core of the bill - to say it like this - that we discussed these days and at the outset two weeks ago. As far as Parliament's amendment is concerned, with a general number of 163 and a special number 62, we agree with the amendment, because there will be no deportation decisions for immigrants - refugees to whom the so-called principle of non-refoulement applies, but they will receive a direct statement that they will not be deported. I shall now proceed to the three amendments. Amendment No 226 and a special number 73 on student relocations, which is also incorporated into an article, of course, we are voting against, since it is worse than the existing regime. We waited for the Ministry of Education bill. It has not been tabled and we have a specific amendment, which we believe solves a number of questions of student relocations. As far as the amendment is concerned, with a general number of 225 and a specific number of 72, we are also voting against it. Is it a mockery, for at the same time as everyone on the tiles or, if you like, parties are talking in favour of workers' rights, etc., at the same time what are you doing with the amendment? In fact - we are saying this clearly - tax exemptions on capital, large-scale manufacturing companies. In what way? As the amendment says. What's he saying? It says that they are overlooking - and that is what the amendment says, but also Article 9 of the n. 4171-, that if a project is undertaken abroad by a Greek company, study scientific work, project design and preparation of the project is done in Greece, when you say that the project is being carried out abroad. It is responsible for a project abroad, but for studying, processing, etc. - I'm sorry. Greece does not pay tax in Greece, while the project, of course, is abroad. Of course it is not taxed on this part of the project, i.e. the work that has been done in Greece. And here we say that if you really want to hit the tax evasion, hit or remove the tax exemptions of big capital. That's what we put on you. With regard to Amendment No 224 and specific number 71, we also vote against it because it is part of the logic of granting the funds' reserves and it is management in this direction. It's our permanent place not to enter the funds' assets into gambling. We also claim that the funds should be paid back in full. I would like to close, Madam President, and thank you for the tolerance with this: the Greek people are well aware of what a helmet of the system is, what a helmet that was created and supported by the system itself to break labour and popular rights. With regard to the parliamentary procedure, it has proved that the Golden Dawn supports a number of questions, reports, questions from the previous parliamentary term, which concern how they will be helped, how the shipowners will be reduced, how the vessel capital alone will be provided. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u242	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u243	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u244	Please stop the vocals! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior and the Administrative Reconstruction is adjourned: "Amendment of the provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on a single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’, and their vote shall be taken separately. Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to inform you that a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn on Articles 1, 7, 8 and 10 of the draft law. The roll-call vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 9 July 2015 at 13.00 p.m. An application for a roll-call vote has been filed for Article 1. Will Rule 1A be accepted, as added by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u246	SYRIZA says 'yes'. The New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u248	Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u250	But, Madam President, a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled for Rule 1.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u251	We talked about 1A. An application for a roll-call vote has been submitted for Article 1.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u252	The article has been broken, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u253	It broke, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u254	We have 1A and 1B.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u255	It's not right as you did it. Excuse me, but now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Athanasios, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u257	I want to help. As Article 1 contains them all. So the proposal of the Golden Dawn is correct, as it does. He's putting the whole article on. You broke 1A and 1B, but within 1. You don't clarify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u258	He's not in one. It's article 1 of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u259	Madam Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u260	The denomination shall be for 1A or 1B.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u261	The Golden Dawn, which has submitted the request, wants anything to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u262	Let's call!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u263	Excuse me! The Golden Dawn, which has submitted the request, how does it want to be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u264	Madam President, we will vote tomorrow on Article 1 as a whole. For both 1A and 1B.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u265	Article 1 as a whole. Good. We shall proceed to Article 2. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u271	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u273	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u279	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u281	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u286	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u289	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u297	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u305	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. An application for a roll-call vote has been submitted for Article 7. For Article 8, too. Article 9 shall be deleted and the amendment shall be included under a general number 173 and a special number 66. An application for a roll-call vote has also been made for Article 10. We shall proceed to Article 11. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u311	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u313	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u316	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u321	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 13 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u325	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u326	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u329	It's not going through.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u330	Why isn't he going through? Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u331	In order not to pass through, it must be voted against by everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u332	We shall now proceed to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u333	14?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u334	Article 14...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u335	At the end of the day you will say it because it can be incorporated into an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u336	What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u337	Article 14 of the bill will tell you at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u338	I'll tell you at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u339	Like this. Because if an amendment is accepted, it's numbered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u340	I shall simply explain, Mr Athanasios, the following: Article 14 is the amendment with a general number of 172 and a special 65, as amended by the Minister. We are now voting on the amendment, which is Article 14 of the bill. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 172 and a special 65, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u343	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u348	Therefore, Amendment No 172 and Special 65, as amended by the Minister, was accepted by a majority vote and is part of the bill as Article 14. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 173 and a special 66, as amended by the Minister, which will be incorporated into the bill as Article 9?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u349	It's Article 9.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u350	Well, let's go down. Does this House accept the amendment of a general number 178 and a special number 67? It is the amendment tabled by Mr Blondos yesterday. It is a ministerial amendment and it deals with the regulation of matters relating to the term of office of the governors and of the deputy directors of hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u352	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u358	Therefore, Amendment No 178, and Amendment No 67, has been accepted by a majority as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u359	Madam President, in Amendment 173 which replaced Article 9, we did not vote there. In place of Article 9 is the amendment with a general number of 173 and a special number of 66. You mentioned it, but we didn't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u360	We'll vote on it at the end. We're keeping it a little. Does this House accept the amendment, with a general number of 182 and a special number of 69? It is the amendment concerning the regulation of transitional questions relating to the functioning of disciplinary boards, an amendment to the first paragraph. Date of birth: 4325/2015. It is the amendment which Mr Katrugalos presented yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u362	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u364	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u368	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 182 and a special 69 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. I would ask that we move to Article 9 now. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number 173 and a special number 66, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u370	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u371	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u373	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u374	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u376	The amendment with a general number 173 and a special 66 was therefore accepted by a majority, as amended by the Minister, and is part of the bill as Article 9.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u377	Madam President, can I make a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u378	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u379	In one of the articles that is for roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u380	Then, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u381	I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u382	No, we have more. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 209 and a special 70? It is the amendment that Mr Xanthos introduced and analysed yesterday. It concerns the settlement of late obligations of the OSH and hospitals and the supply of public primary health care structures of the OSH.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u386	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u390	The amendment, under a general number 209 and a special 70, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Let's go to the parliamentary amendments. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 163 and a special number of 62 as it stands? It is an amendment tabled by Mrs Catrivanou, Mr Arahovitis and other Members. The summary is ‘protection against expulsion based on the principle of non-refoulement’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u398	The amendment with a general number 163 and a special 62 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment under a general number 224 and a special number 71 as it stands? It is an amendment tabled by the Member, Mr Statha, concerning matters relating to the Social Security Funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u403	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u406	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 224 and a special 71 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 225 and a special number 72 as it stands? It is a parliamentary amendment, concerning the conditions under which undertakings are subject to the rules laid down in Article 9 of the n. Date of birth: 4171/1961.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u409	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u413	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u414	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 225 and a special 72 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 226 and a special number 73 as it stands? It is a parliamentary amendment tabled by Mr Manda, Mr Vitsa, Mr Papadopoulos and Mrs Katrivanou, which has been developed today and relates to the relocations of students to AEIs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u418	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u421	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u422	The amendment under a general number 226 and a special 73 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Before we proceed to the conclusion of the meeting, and before I give the floor to you, Minister, to close, I give the floor to Mr Athanasios who wants to refer to Rule 16.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u423	I just said he got 16. He wants a recast of Article 1. He's got to break into articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u424	Before we solve the meeting, we should give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u425	Normally now we should go to the vote on Article 1A, since the request of the Golden Dawn Party is for roll-call vote on Article 1. As you will see - you have been distributed - Article 1 introduces clause 1A of the bill and Article 1A introduces clause 1B of the bill, which I built it to vote for by those who want and disagree with the first version of children born in Greece. So since the application concerns Article 1, that means that it concerns only the second generation children born in our country. So, if this is the case, Madam President, we can normally vote on the next article, which is Article 1A which will also vote on other parties, which includes the 1B regulation of the bill and the Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u426	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u427	I haven't given you the floor, Mr. Pappa. Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u428	As far as Article 1 is concerned, that is to say when we say Article 1 is concerned, we mean both 1A and 1B. Now, Mrs Christodoulopoulos' arithmetic cannot understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u429	Take a look, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u430	If you want a correction to the application, we write it so that we can also satisfy the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u431	No, we won't. Look, Mr. Pappa,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u432	They're separate articles. That's why I built it up. I said it three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u433	The bill, Mr. Pappa, everyone took it into their hands around 15:00 to 15:30. So before we get...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u434	It can also be seen from the screens. It was issued after we had made the request from the gentleman who brings the water here. He's not here right now. Call him outside a little bit. Is he gone? It was issued after we filed the application.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u435	Mr. Pappa, listen to me for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u436	There is evidence from the cameras in Parliament. These little tricks we don't understand. These are tricks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Poppa, correct her, I have no problem. She'll be voted on anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u438	Mr Papapas, first of all, you will not be referring to the Chair with expressions such as 'ticks'. I won't allow it. First, I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor. Secondly, as the cameras recorded when the innard was distributed, as the Services say, so the cameras have recorded many times - three, if I remember correctly, as far as I have seen - that the Minister has done exactly three times this analysis and explained that it will make this partitioning of the article. I therefore think we can proceed with the resolution of Article 1A, as added by the Minister. Will Rule 1A be accepted, as added by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u440	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u441	You'll tell your opinion. The New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u442	Madam President, as the Minister intervened...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u443	Are you in such a hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u444	I didn't give you the floor. The New Democracy, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u445	We change the wording for the last moment, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Georgioda...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u448	Here you go. The Golden Dawn votes 'no'. The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u449	We have not voted 'no', Madam President. You didn't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u450	The JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Poppa, you don't have the floor. The Annells?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u454	Madam President, why is this rush? Why, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u455	It's a premiere!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u456	Madam President, may I tell you something legal if I may?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u457	They're gonna beat us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Athanasios, wait a minute, I haven't given you the floor. I have given the floor to the ANE spokesman.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u459	Madam Secretary, why is this rush? Today the Prime Minister spoke of nations - states in the eurozone. What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u460	The vote will take place tomorrow. I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u461	Madam President, tomorrow's roll-call vote can go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u462	For the guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u463	Good. The ANELs therefore call 'no'. Mr. Athanasios, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u464	They do not say 'no', Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u465	That's what the man says!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u466	I don't understand why you're shouting. I don't understand why you're shouting like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u467	Why do you do what you want? That's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u468	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u469	You don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u470	And speak a little better! And I haven't given you the floor! [[Hall noise from the Golden Dawn wing]] And I won't allow you! Okay? Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u471	Madam President, I want to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u472	Excuse me, Mr. Athanasios. Haven't you finished, Mr. Red?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u473	Madam President, for the interpretation, I did not say 'no'. Tomorrow I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u474	Excuse me. Good. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u475	Madam President, as is the provision in Article 1, of course, the wish of the Minister was to break the article, namely 1A, to become 1A and 1B, but with two different provisions. As has been said, in the remark made by Mr Pappas of the Golden Dawn he is right, because it is as a single article. Watch out, says "Article 1" and under Article 1 refers to 1A and 1B. It is embedded in Article 1. So, as it is, they're right. That's what it was supposed to be. It had to be formulated and separated from the outset into two different articles, Articles 1, 2 and 2, to become 3 et seq., which was not done. That is what I wanted to say to you, to facilitate the process. If you notice, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u476	Good. Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Athanasios, you're wrong. It's usually the articles. You can see it. Open up and see. Article 1 and Article 1A.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u478	It's in one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u479	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u480	Please, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u481	Neither. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u482	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u483	Here you are abrogating the arithmetic. Article 1 does not contain either Articles 1A and 1B? What logic is that? As far as the terminology is concerned, I do not understand it. What language is that? You are abolishing the word 'lathromatic immigrant' because it is racist. You are now putting the concept of 'the wholehearted'. What does it mean, 'Holidly indulgence'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u484	I heard him in the House of Greeks. The Services state the whole bill that comes for a vote as 'inn' - 'inn' bill' - and I said - and was adopted by everyone without any problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u485	Are these legal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u486	You abolished the Greek language. What can I say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u487	You're welcome, Mr. Michaloliaco. The process is over. We're at PASOK. PASOK says about Article 1A.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u488	We are voting 'yes' in Article 1A.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u489	Article 1A was therefore accepted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u490	Traitors! Whatever you want to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u491	Traitors!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u492	This is not a democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u493	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u494	That's hers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-08-S1-commons.u495	With the consent of the House at 17.08' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, July 9 at 9.30' on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, announcement of reports and discussion of current questions; and (b) legislative work, roll-call vote on Articles 1, 7, 8 and 10 of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Amendment of provisions of the Code of Greek citizenship - Amendment of the No. 4251/2014 adapting Greek legislation to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for the granting of citizens of third countries of a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on the common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of seasonal work and other provisions’.
