ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Cesareans. We welcome you to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Measures for the implementation of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reform". I would remind you that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled by the Communist Party of Greece, if I am not deceived, which will take place at approximately 12 noon. This means that, as we agreed from yesterday, at least until 12 noon, the list from where it stopped yesterday with colleagues who were registered to speak in principle continues. After the vote at 12 noon, which will begin in practical terms, as the Conference of Presidents has decided unanimously, the debate on the articles, typically anyone who wishes to be included in the articles, will be able to register during the speech of the first two speakers. However, with a new understanding with you, with the plenary, we will see whether we will continue and exhaust the list that has been in place since yesterday, but also with the new colleagues who will be enrolled, although I believe that the vast majority are those who spoke yesterday. So maybe it won't come up with a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u2	There's a hundred registered MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u3	In any case, we will see this immediately after the roll-call vote at around 13.00 so that as many Members as possible can speak. Mr. Costas Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that a large number of speakers in particular from the chairs of the opposition have these two days referred to the basic contradiction between the government and the government. For other things, he was electorally speaking, and eventually others were doing a post-election. In fact, if one reads what Mr Tsipras said in this Chamber on 8 February and the plan under discussion today, he cannot believe that these political positions were developed in the same country with only eight months' difference and - the most incredible -! - from the same government! So in February, what did we have? We had an unscrupulous Prime Minister - and I stress that! - a Prime Minister who has not even had the excuse to say that he is in opposition, to promise everything to everyone, from duty to 12 000 euros, to an increase in the minimum pension to 750 euros, to mention just two very characteristic examples. What's going on today? Today we have a government and a Prime Minister who is bringing us to vote at the beginning of a third tougher memorandum. However, this, ladies and gentlemen, is not the only contradiction of the government majority, because a year ago the macroeconomic forecasts for the course of the Greek economy were very different. And you will allow me here to refer to a comparative element. In the last quarter of 2014, the Greek economy developed by - even - anaemic 0.8%, after six years of very great recession. In the last quarter of 2015, the forecast is to have a remission of 5%, so that we end up in 2015 to have for all year of remission of 2.3%. SYRIZA, therefore, received an economy that slowly left the worst behind and even had this very small growth. The truth is, he has also received some surpluses. It could therefore, if it had continued on this same path of rationalisation and did not follow the path of populism, correct the injustices that had been done in the low income layers and reduce even taxation. Instead, today your government validates the biggest tax raid the country has experienced. But how did all this change? The proud negotiation of Mr. Tsipras that would change not only Greece but also all of Europe has taken place. We continued with the comico-tragic history of the referendum in which the Greeks voted a proud "no" to finally get a hard "yes" after a few weeks. And, of course, the September 2015 elections followed, in which SYRIZA now won and won a great and proud victory. However, those in the government arrogantly think that in the elections they have been abducted, it is important to illustrate the course of other parties, which shows that the Greek people, even after some time, do not forget the mistakes made by governments. So the shorter does not have a zero after each election. Your political chapter is not endless and I very much fear that you have already spent a great deal of it. And you spend it, if I may, cynically undoing all that you said a few months ago. The first left-wing government in the European Union went from the increase in the minimum pension to the reduction in all pensions, from the 'no house to a banker' to lock-ups, and opened the debate on the sale of loans to the so-called distributed funds. From the "I don't pay" movement to the increase of public transport tickets and from the cries for a public property sale, with your "no" bronders for every foreign investment in the attempts at artisanal privatizations, apparently to change the capitalist system from within. So you have completely forgotten about the rhetoric that has brought you so easily and unnecessarily in the government headquarters. You will allow me to say that you have thus undone the image of the socially sensitive Left. In one, however, you were consistent and I think we should recognise that. You consist, of course, not with what you were saying, but with what you believe as genuine leftists. You were consistent with most of the taxes, because for so many years, with what the Left of Greece said, we were in the centre right too to forget what left economic policy means. And what it means in the end is more taxes, because simply left never believed in wealth production, it did not believe in how foreign investment is generated. The only thing you seem to believe is wild taxation. And so we have the increase in ENPIA, the increase in taxation on the islands, the increase in tax rates on households and businesses, the increase in taxation on farmers. It is therefore a consistent left-wing policy. I don't know, of course, if she's nationally proud. The substantive measures that you are bringing today lead, according to your forecasts made by Mr Tsakalots in the preliminary draft budget, to a recession of 2.3% in 2015 and 1.3% in 2016, to an increase in unemployment, an increase in deficits, a debt outflow in the unprecedented 193% of GDP. So the New Democracy has no choice but to vote against this bill because it cannot support policies of a government leading the country with mathematical accuracy to the recession, increase unemployment and ultimately national misery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too, for the exact time. Mr Theodoros Parastatis is followed by Mr. Parastatis and Mr. Dimitrios Emmanoulidis immediately thereafter. Here, Mr Parastatides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, since we have heard political criticism and little mention of the content of today's Multifibre Arrangement, I too will be allowed to adapt my speech accordingly. In addition, the SYRIZA colleagues have been thoroughly mentioned and analysed the content of the plan. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is at the most critical crossroads in its modern history. The economy and society have been severely affected by the five-year policy of the memoranda implemented. The policies of the past five years have been those which have dissolved the small and medium-sized strata, such as employees and retired people, professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises. The country was completely deindustrialised, resulting in an unprecedented increase in unemployment. There has been a complete deregulation of the market and of industrial relations. And for all this, gentlemen, you are blaming the SYRIZA government for not having been able to deal with this whole situation within seven months. You continue this tactic today, at a time when the Greek people in the recent elections, with their choices, gave you their answer. If nothing else is seen as political hypocrisy and enthusiasm. It is amazing and it is a mockery, I would say, that we have "voteed the agreement on the European path of the country, but we do not vote on the content of this agreement", you say that the agreement is empty and that the country's stay in the euro and the euro area does not go through the measures it contains. So if the measures are not passed today, is the country's European path guaranteed? Apparently not. Is that a good argument, then? How do you think citizens will judge your positions? Ladies and gentlemen, we were witnessing the hard battle that Alexis Tsipras gave during the negotiation in order to change the terms and commitments of the previous agreements. In fact, it was an effort, which was made in an environment hostile to an environment of economic suffocation and political extortion, which was formulated by the former governments of New Democracy in previous years, with a number of signatures and commitments, thus putting the country under hostage. This situation is called upon by the current government to manage through an agreement which we have, it is true, been imposed on us. It is an agreement contrary to the wishes of the government and the people. We have recently heard New Democracy officials claim - allegedly self-criticising - that they also made mistakes in managing the policy of the memorandums. Unfortunately, for you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, these choices were not made by wrong assessments, but they were conscious choices, because they are linked to the ideological nature of your policy. We hear daily officials of the New Democracy, assisted by some media, saying that measures and taxes are coming that will hit the population of the country. So let us see what measures are coming and let us remember who imposed them again. You guys weren't the ones who made wage cuts and pensions 40%, yes or no? Aren't you the ones who signed the zero-deficit clause on subsidiarys, yes or no? Did you not abolish the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, even to pensioners, yes or no? Didn't you make the increase in taxation? Didn't you enforce HISBIA, yes or no? Didn't you break down the reserves of the insurance funds and agencies through the PSI and structured bonds? Of course, you only restored the banks by recapitalisation while the micro-enterprises and the insurance funds are not. Didn't you create working jungle conditions by deregulation of labour relations? Didn't you make sure that three hundred thousand shops are closed down leading to unemployment of at least two million workers? Did you not raise the debt to 180% of GDP and the recession to 25%? You didn't disorganize the operation of the hospitals. All these measures you call for where you stand and where you are, didn't you impose them? Fortunately, the Greek people are well aware of your policy, the consequences of which they have suffered. That is why he did not trust you with the country's governance in the recent elections. Ladies and gentlemen, Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country last week with his programme statements, clearly outlined the axes and signals of policy to be followed by the government over a four-year term. So it is obvious that today we need to move Greece forward. In order to achieve this, however, we must end with all these loose ends, many of which come from commitments from previous programmes which have not been implemented - and we must not forget that - let alone when there are no alternatives today because of the policies of previous years. In addition to the vote and the implementation of the agreed measures, we must plan and implement immediately countermeasures in order to alleviate the negative effects, such as insurance, the taxation of farmers, free trade and small and medium-sized enterprises. We must dare democratic areas and interventions to combat tax evasion, bureaucracy, corruption and interlocutory. Above all, however, we need to move forward with the real reform of the state and the relaunch of the economy based on productive reconstruction, job protection, support for productive and social forces, building a better future, especially for the new generation. These changes require an active involvement of society, they require a strong and non-aligned government, which has the political and moral stature to fight and conflict with the great interests, to reform the structures of the state, to support society to impose fair burden-sharing and to restart the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The current government has the will and will to do all this. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we must all contribute, each in its own way, so that our country can stand up and end with the nightmare of poverty and unemployment. We must not forget that today may belong to us, but tomorrow belongs to our children and grandchildren, and it belongs to the next generations. In this effort to rectify the country we should maximise the advantages of this agreement and minimise its negative points. And this can be achieved, because the current Prime Minister, with his tough negotiation, created those conditions, such as the minimum primary surplus, the start of the debt write-down debate and an important support package.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u7	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. These are, if you like, the keys to the prospect of economic recovery and returning the country to normality, which was missing from previous agreements and the memoranda that have been implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Comrade, please, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u10	And that, if you want, is the difference. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of tolerance. We are in number thirty one and a hundred colleagues have been written. If the seventy get one and a half minutes, it's a hundred minutes, that's an hour and a half. I have no problem sitting here as long as you like. However, if you want there to be mutual respect between us, please very much in seven minutes, the speech of any speaker from any party will be over, otherwise they will remain colleagues without speaking. Please very much. The next colleague is Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, followed by Mr Sevastakis and Mr Vagios. Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, George Seferis in his poem "A old man in the citadel" will tell us: "If pain is human, we are not just human beings to hurt." Much more, I complement, we're not people to make others hurt. The Left, ladies and gentlemen, did not come to these benches to share pain and misery with a betrayed people. He came to heal the wounds that the forty-year-old destructive for the people and the country politics of New Democracy and PASOK opened up in his body. With unscrupulous policies, the two parties understood power as a plundering field, leading society and country to the bad ladder. All post-government years with a lack of political seriousness, with their own aim of political survival, have ensnared our people in a virtual reality of remorseful prosperity, enduring their future and the future of their children. And it came in 2009, the year our people woke up from the fraudulent dream to be faced with a social nightmare, the nightmare of a great public debt and national bankruptcy. The national bankruptcy, ladies and gentlemen, did not occur as a momentary catastrophic phenomenon of nature, such as the earthquake. It was the result of a crime against the place of 40 years old politics, where there was a dominance of strife and corruption. That is how the then rulers, hearing the engraves, were led to the Memorial vortex. The two main guilty of the political system, under the burden of their public sins, undeniably accepted the checks of the lenders in the logic of no sinless and "yes to everything", by throwing our people into a modern society. Our people, living every day in the social nightmare, convinced that there is no stopping at the social catastrophe, at the elections in January of '15, laid their hopes on SYRIZA, giving him the responsibility of managing his collective fate. The conspiracy of a European and local neoliberal establishment has been setting up the trap of the brief left-wing parentheses since the very first time. The people cancel this plan and reaffirm their support for the election of SYRIZA and ANEL during the elections on 20 September. Ladies and gentlemen, if, according to Dionysius Solomon national, it is what is true, we should be talking at this time about our country at real times. Perhaps we are at the most critical post-government moment. The vote on the Memorandum of Understanding by almost all political parties is a reality. The terms of the memorandum are, in many cases, socially inconsistent. The punishing behaviour of the European director at the expense of a proud people is illustrated in the context of this agreement. SYRIZA, aware of social and historical responsibility, that dramatic ally of July 12 to the 13th, in front of the dilemma of an uncomplicated exit, in which Siomple was exterminated with his company, an exit that would surely open the cycle of a national tragedy on the one hand and a hardened social contract on the other, chose to assume social responsibility. The difficult task of safeguarding social cohesion, on the one hand, and the reconstruction of the economy leading to the development of the country, has been pursued. And we come to today, when we are called upon to vote 15 prerequisites for the implementation of the agreement of 14 August. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the social burden that we have borne. However, we are convinced that only our government has the necessary political and social guarantees so that, together with the measures which it is determined to take to ensure social cohesion, the prerequisite for the country's exit from the recession. As far as the New Democracy and the PASOK are concerned, we let them wander around the labyrinth of their political deadlocks. We leave them to the crisis of our people, who are aware of the political deadlock in which they have come from voting on the whole agreement and, on the other hand, from voting against the accompanying measures in the memorandum, a sample of political self-clavism in which they have come. The government has the knowledge and above all the will to lead society to the clearing of national preference. He is aware that the project is extremely difficult. It is, however, the fate of the Left, ladies and gentlemen, to be called for the difficult ones. The Left and at this critical moment will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u14	This three-day debate is characterized by a great political embarrassment. As SYRIZA tries to assimilate - and I think to a certain extent that it does, composeing, composeing or demonstrating a fairly strong political force - the new currents of thought that start from social democracy, socialist and socialist tendencies, ecology and a left Europeanism, so much creates a discomfort with the other political forces that are explained and from the fact that they are in transition. Thus, they cannot bring critically, materially, or do not do so with the strength and intensity that is required in the bill under discussion. Too much of the reason and argument is exhausted in 'what you said, 'what you did' or 'what you had to do'. Thank you so much! The question is in the next step. The question arises at the next moment: What must be done under the conditions we live? What can be done under the cash and political conditions under which we live? There must be a contribution and there must be evidence of criticism. It is also a sign of this embarrassment that many interesting celebrities and ideological bodies of compliance, the monumental conception, the strategic integration of the European Union under the terms of the earlier governments look forward to a metaphysical and abstract Left. Suddenly, too many have breathed over SYRIZA's Left that left. I think that all these samples of a wider political embarrassment make up what we have as a central problem, namely that we cannot give easy answers and we must work to give easy answers. The bill has problems and we see them. First of all, I would say that it does not have an ideological body, a cohesion, and even a working cohesion. I think he's captured by the ghosts of previous arrangements. Part of the bill carries the ghosts of earlier legislative structures. This creates him an internal weakness. Many colleagues from all sides of the House have identified problems of the bill that could be improved and that the Minister and the government have committed themselves to seeing them. For example, there is a difference in the taxation of an individual company in relation to the SGEI. Or the E.R. There's an inequality. They'll see, they said. There's more tracking. It has positive elements, such as trying to control costs or unification into a single economic body of all resources, a vault, as I think it is. These are positively organised, they do not respond to the country's strategic problem, but I do not think there is anyone ready unscrupulously and unscrupulously to answer the country's strategic question, which is what? It is that the country does not produce, that the country does not have the political tools to establish a new production identity, to set up and set up its production emancipation, and therefore to make natural funding by workers, by the people who are in practice, are in life rather than in the margin of a allowance. The culture of benefit, unfortunately, also has political criticism of the benefits. The national culture of benefit is also in the hands of our criticism. For example, the government's insistence on protecting the first home is being criticised for the fact that red loans actually create a liquidityisation of the property through the sale of banks to foreign funds. Sure. It is, however, a multi-annual policy set up on this, when people have been inclined to run into massive and unsatisfactory borrowing, when people have felt that their borrowing needs to be dismantled from their financial potential, from what brings home - I am borrowing independently of the resources I have - and that has gone away. So red loans, the inability to feed your debt, is a problem and we make defence policy, not first residence. In total, the bill suffers from defenseism. He's right. We have a problem stabilizing the system. It is not currently mature, strong to compose a solution for the system. I believe that in a short time, when the other political forces find their internal stabilisation, they lose their insecurity from the election defeat or the multiple election defeats, they will be able to contribute. And this daring and availability of SYRIZA I think it's a given idea to take the current of thought, the idea of another, regardless of whether he has political disagreements with the other. This political diversity of SYRIZA, which is also a toolatic diversity, I think it is something that the historic moment and SYRIZA need to vote for it, establish it and broaden it without the uncertainties it is inherited from the old political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u15	Mr Sevastakis, because I see that Mr Alexiadis is present, if there are any changes to be made by the Minister present he must do so by the afternoon, because after the vote at night, as you can see, whether he does or does not have any meaning. So, Mr Alexiadis, you have heard the remarks. If you are going to vote at some point after the vote at first to make some changes to tell us. Mr Vagionas has the floor. I read the next five minutes if a colleague is not in the Chamber and wants to come. Then Mrs. Kafantaris, Mr. Arvanitides, Mr. Dimitriadis and Mr. Fortsakis. Dear George, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I had other things in mind to say, but the three previous speakers of the SYRIZA touched on reality. I understand their problems, the problems of discontent, the indignation with the memorials that they have voted for, the first and the second, which have left the spots. It's said a man who didn't vote for a Memorandum. However, with full awareness of the country's stay in Europe, I voted in favour of this memorandum. I did not vote for the acts of the Memorandum. Look. We're still at the beginning. The Memorandum provides for fifteen of the forty-eight prerequisites, followed by others. As far as human sensitivity and human suffering are concerned, I am not giving this right to any Left. And I assure you that the New Democracy is an anthropcentric party. And this is the ideological mark of the New Democracy, which is not present, from its foundation, from Constantine Karamanlis, who said that the area of the New Democracy is from the left to the right. That is what they said and that is the ideological signal, Mr Stevastaki, and we fully agree with what you said at the end of your speech on internal affairs. So I didn't vote for a memorandum. I understand your memorial mutation. It's hard. It's sloppy. It's vomiting. It's causing a tendency to vomit if you want. But it is necessary. And that's what we're gonna do. We won't be negative on everything. We may vote against the bill at first, but what is right, not taxes, not a more marginal reduction in wages and pensions. Why don't you forget that we're not at the beginning in 2010. We are in front of a people who have suffered everything and have no euro in the pocket. So 'no worries' than 'neither dots'. So the memorial mutation creates great problems. I'll give you a medical opinion, and if you want, an opinion friendly for both the place and you. Because time is relentless for you, he's good for us. What does time say? No more lies or -- not half truths. And I will say that you followed this by coron, not only January, but September as well. What did you say and say against the coroner and I see colleagues who are still supporting it today? You say half the truths, which are worse than lying. In other words, "we've withdrawn", "we've deleted", "we've abolished" the five-day admission to hospitals, or rather the provision of services, when someone gets them in need. What's the truth? What has this five-year-old given to the public corps or, if you like, the public funds? A total of EUR 25 million has been paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u17	Less. It was 19 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u18	You say less. Maybe it's less next year. But what is the real truth. The real truth, which you know it - I do not believe that there are Members and Parliamentarians who are not telling the whole truth - is that at the same time you have cut the pensioner's basic salary by 2%. 2% in favor of EPPY became 4%. Watch out. A minimum pension of EUR 500. What's that supposed to mean? On the one hand, it means 10 euros every month, you don't get sick. On the other hand, you put 6% on the supplementary pension. The average supplementary pensions are about EUR 170. So you get another 10-12 euros from there. Ten euros on the one hand, 12 euros on the other, 20-22 euros each month. This in time will say 240-250 euros. So you get half the payroll. Instead of giving the thirteenth pension, you make 12 pensions ten-and-a-half. If we don't want to see them that way, with this real dimension, you won't be able to agree with us. We intend what is good, what is progressive, what is in favour of man, what is in favour of development, to have our support. We had no support and never. And at some point we need to restore some truths. In 2009, since the beginning of the year, the President of the Kostas Karamanlis Party said "we can take no more, no more increases, no recruitments". What will these measures say in relation to what we have voted on and you and you who are going to vote today? It's a necessary evil. He won't come back any more of this time. Then what was the deficit? It was really big. But colleagues do not know - my friend George Parastatis, who has been here since 2008 and remembers - that forty-seven funds we wanted to make three. It's been a tough fight. We finally made seven. We said that - for younger Members to learn - supplementary pensions are not defined by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of Health or by Ministers, but by the boards of directors. We wanted the abolition. It's better if there's been a fund ever since. Then there was a hit from all over Antipopulation, resulting in what? Do not go through 20% - if you are going to give a supplementary pension fund - of the basic pension and need a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Economic and Labour. It's just things that didn't happen. Consider that 2008 was the year of the global crisis that found Greece very much back financially, because on the one hand we had to pay all the Olympic projects that cost many billions and on the other was a 20-year bond that was paid in 2008. It was 350 billion drachmas and we paid for them 64 billion euros. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What am I supposed to talk about the insurance business now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u19	Dear George, leave the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u20	But what I'm saying is stop swinging the flag of the Lagard list, the London list, Luxembourg and any other list there is. Minister, because you are also responsible - you are tax collector, if I am not mistaken - you will have the guilt if you fail and say that the deadline has passed. Bring the law, we vote in advance. And you should know that anyone who is and wherever the New Democracy belongs has no commitment to anyone. She has a commitment to herself. Thank you very much. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me tell you now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u21	My son, there is no possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. Another time, we'll have more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make an agreement to make it easier for us all. As you know, the Communist Party of Greece has tabled a request for a roll-call vote. Firstly, because there is an objective difficulty because Mr Koutsoubas has a meeting at that time with Minister from Vietnam, secondly, because the Conference of Presidents has also dealt with the issue of a single vote at night and thirdly because the Communist Party of Greece - as he informed me - intends to table a request for a roll-call vote for five articles, by way of derogation from the press...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u24	We're on our way, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u25	You too. So what I'm saying is even more reinforcement. By way of derogation, therefore, of the type of Rules of Procedure, I propose to you that we continue in principle until 14.00 hours so as to speak as many colleagues as possible. At 14 noon we enter the articles and start with the rapporteurs. They are written - if there are those who are written - and we continue. And at night we go to a single vote on both the principle and the articles with which parties table a proposal. Of course, I repeat that it is by way of derogation because it should have been the first one in the first place. But I think that more and more Members will have spoken and become disembodied by those who are waiting for the twelveth mediterranean. It won't be the twelfth meridian, but the twelfth night. I see that there are representatives from all parties in this House right now. If I have your unanimous decision to make this derogation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u27	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u28	Don't turn the process into a debate and waste time. I'll say a word. What about colleagues who will be on the list even at 14 noon? Will they be promoted after the eight speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u29	That's why we're going to make a consultation. I appreciate Mr Loverdos - we know that the oldest - there will be no such registration as in principle for the articles. And so I think it will be possible for those colleagues who are going to be able to speak at first and on the articles and some new ones or yesterday who want to speak on the articles in this tenth hour. So does the House agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u30	The House has agreed. So we make this decision, Mrs. Perifanou. We're on regular. Those who waited to vote at noon can be locked apart. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'll make a statement. In view of the multiplier procedure for the last three days, in committees and yesterday, I ask: are we in regularity to discuss a bill that is a multi-billion bill? Reply: The agreement which was signed and passed by the Greek Parliament on 14 August will ensure that, in other words, our country can return to normality and discuss different drafts, bills, etc. What's that polynomial plan we're talking about today? These are the implementing laws relating to the agreement, which was voted in favour of on 14 August by the Greek Parliament, an agreement which ensures economic and financial stability, an agreement which brings - through the vote and the vote on the plan - closer to the first assessment, which is what is being done, and closer to the disbursement of a dose of around 2 billion. There is a qualitative difference from previous methodologies. It has been done in implementing public consultation laws with institutions, which is very important. There has been a debate, and the government, which is a government that listens, ladies and gentlemen, receives comments along with the negotiation that continues until the last minute with our lenders. Because this government is actually negotiating and negotiating. This government has come to stay and will proceed to solve the sufferings of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, to rationalise procedures, to put order in a state and in a state that essentially operated with opacity, with communism, with over forty years of stringency, and of course it has the heavy burden of introducing a new model of governance of the country. We live, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate a theatre of irrationality these days. Some people say 'we have voted for the agreement for some reason, so that the country does not come out of the euro and so on, but we say no to its implementation', which is, in fact, about these implementing laws. Those who accused the government of signing from March, those who did not help at European level when the government was negotiating in Brussels and elsewhere, those who were opposed to the proud 'no' of the Greek people and said 'yes', now come and shake our finger. We have heard here, and this paradox 'You have demolished the social state' has said a representative - I think the Parliamentary - of the New Democracy. If that's possible! Laws on insurance since 2010 also apply with this multi-project. However, I come to say that since 2010 the public had to collect advertising fees by law in 2010, but this has not been done and is now being done in the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, and you are aware of the well-known legal developments that have taken place in the last 24 hours. They talk about insurance and swing the finger as if it were virginity some measures that are being regulated here and about the future insurance that, as the Minister said, will come into November, those who were the ones who ruled when the structured bonds were made, when the deadly PSI with the 25 billion lost the insurance funds, those who, with their policies, led the country to the Memorandums and today in five years have lost 26% of GDP in peacetime, if possible! I would like to say here, in addition to the insurance sector, that rationalization and adaptation to modern conditions are necessary and not all these problems have been present. I read somewhere - and it may be that comrade Theonas knows - that there are five hundred ways of calculating pensions in the IKA. Shouldn't some things be rationalized and put into another phase? Should the Government not ensure the reserves of the ancillary funds, which are public social security? Should we not look at issues relating to who ought to be in the IKA? The issue of resources, inputs, said a New Democracy MEP yesterday, and I recall what has happened with the banks, the mergers, the sales between banking institutions and their debts in the insurance funds of the industry. Ladies and gentlemen, we are restoring injustices and harmonising - as far as insurance is concerned - conditions in the public and private sectors. When we talk about tax evasion, we all stand by the words. But when the government comes and in this multi-project it takes measures to tighten up tax evasion, there are objections. When measures are taken to increase the collection of taxes, which we all recognize to be a matter, to rationalise fines, etc., there are again objections. The government until the last minute, ladies and gentlemen, has been negotiating hard. That is why there are improvements which come within these two days of a plenary sitting, because the government is listening. And here I would like to table a proposal from the Citizens' Counsel in the public consultation on the subject of the Multifibre Arrangement. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charula Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that the political chapter which, with three successive modifications, created the government and SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, is almost vague. The NSRPs and European funds of around 35 billion, which will immediately be channelled to the market - and here I would like to stress the European Parliament's historic decision of 7 October on zeroing domestic participation in the financial programmes - is something very important and it is a success of negotiation, not just of the government, I would say, but of Greece. A government, however, which is negotiating today, is responsible for getting the country out of the crisis, leading it to the creative rise of the future, with productive reconstruction, resurrecting the productive forces of the country that are actually late at the moment, especially over the last five years, and implementing a new productive development model, with ecological orientation always and of course on the basis of serving the needs of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u32	Before calling in Stepma the next speaker, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and two teachers from the General School of Cesareans and twenty-one students and a school teacher from the 6th Grade School of Painter. These are neighborhoods next door. We welcome you to Parliament's plenary. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to you: First, Protocol No 13892/8918 from 15 October 2015 to the decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Committee on the State's accounts and general balance sheet and control of the implementation of the State's budget’. Second, Protocol No 13893/8919 from 15 October 2015 to the decision of the President of the Parliament: ‘Recommendation and establishment of the ‘Committee on the study and treatment of the drugs problem’ of the Standing Committee on Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to you: Firstly, with the decision of the President of Parliament of 15 October 2015 under Rule 43A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period was established. Second, that under the decision of the President of the Parliament of 15 October 2015 under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure, Special Permanent Committees for the Hellenism of the Dissemination, Environment, Research and Technology, Equality, Youth and Rights of Man, Regions, Road Safety and Penitentiary, and other structures for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, under the title of No. 13891/8917. All these decisions have been posted to Parliament Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u33	I would ask Mr. George Arvanitides to come to Stepma. As I said, Mr. Dimitrios Dimitriadis, Mr. Theodores Fortsakis, Mr. Ilhan Ahmet, Mr. John Theonas and Mr. George Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this multiplier plan is a result of the tough seven-month negotiation, but I cannot imagine that you would have brought it to the vote if you hadn't negotiated so hard. I have already heard - and it was interesting - how much power you defend this third memorandum, its faithful implementation in the interests of many and the orders or the abolition of the debate with the troika, with the quartet. Finally, I think you've become the one you've been blaming us for so long. Of course you became so cooperative with some when the Germans left when the occupation ended. You have succeeded in nineteen articles to hit the whole of the Greek economy and society and you are addressing the opposition with a great deal of courage, saying that these measures were known by the people in the election, so they have been legalised and no one should complain. You are likely to close your ears at the syllables that are being prepared and the reactions of almost all the productive players in the country, which have been expressed both inside and outside Parliament. The arrangements that are coming are many, just a few words, I will only say about some of them. You need to answer us where the elimination of the option of choosing a lower insurance class for new insured doctors, lawyers and engineers after 1-1-1993 is insured. You know that thousands of young people insured, lawyers, for example, had zero performances in 2014 and even abolish this possibility retrospectively. You take back the arrangement to increase the taxation of rents, so did you say about the parcels, but what about the unrealistic rents? Why are you canceling an arrangement that helps thousands of property owners? It needs a clear commitment with technical documentation that even if the possibility of transfer is not finally in force, it will find a simple way of not taxing the money that they will not receive. You add an additional tax on hotels and rented rooms retrospectively from 1-1-2015 instead of 19-8-2015. How can an undertaking be consistent with its obligations when every three and a little appear retroactive? Is that how you plan to achieve growth for 2016? You are effectively canceling the setting of the hundreds of instalments for debtors who will not manage within one month and not within three months to settle their current liabilities. It is the famous 'we have voted to vote in favour and we are voting against what we have voted on'. So you've figured out how many people are going to be left out? Do you think this will increase the collection and the market will breathe? There is also a question in the sense of tax evasion, which Members have pointed out. You cannot manifestly treat illegal acts with a minor violation or omission. You give a great deal of discretion to the audit bodies to judge according to what they are doing, which may give rise to corruption. There must be further clarifications and regulations. Repeat a provision on the non-implementation of municipal fees. Local government has been documented since 2013 that such regulation will create serious revenue loss problems, without even anticipating any equivalent in your friendly tactics for self-government. Furthermore, such a regulation will also bring about a series of other distortions, as the Regional Association of Municipalities and Communities of Macedonia points out in its letter. The Minister responsible brought improvements yesterday, but the problem remains, as the CEDEFOP pointed out in its letter. You also create problems with the strains of the Port Body. In particular, Article 21(3) abolishes the possibility of completing the conversion of the Port Authority to a professional fund, at a time when substantial sums have been spent in this direction, and indeed for a procedure which would open for the next two and a half months. The report of consequences of the bill mentions one by one of the social groups affected by your regulations in insurance. Pensions are reduced to members of the public and the Armed Forces who have left or left from 1-9-2015 onwards. Unfavourable effects arise from the increase in age limits after 19 August. Cut by 10% the reduced early pensions until the pension threshold is reached. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many other problematic cases in the bill that need to be amended. Our rapporteur has been mentioned in detail. Unfortunately, time is limited to me. We will be pushing for corrections even at the last minute, even at only five. I want to close with a comment. SYRIZA - ANEL's second government mandate begins with a barbaric bill as it turns out. Of course, more will be followed by the end of the year. I want to focus on the planned increase in urban transport tickets. In Thessaloniki the OSH instruments are the only option of mass transport for citizens. It is estimated that the increase in the ticket price will reach ten minutes, i.e. it will go from 1 euro today to 1,10. Is that a fair policy? Is it a policy that helps the weaker social strata? We as a Democratic Party will be here, ladies and gentlemen, for creative criticism and proposals. But you will not charge us, gentlemen, your own deadlocked political choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u35	And I thank you for the very exact time. Mr. Dimitrios Dimitriadis has the floor and then Mr. Fortsakis. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and vote on this draft law are coming to an end effectively, with a framework which has already agreed a set of political forces, with our own suggestion, a half and a half months ago in the previous parliamentary term. It was then the subject of political dialogue during the election period and we can accept that it has been ratified by the recent people's mandate. It is also worth pointing out that the whole of the anti-population forces that finally voted for the loan contract was dragged to it because it was better than its own expectations, which was the original proposal of the institutions. They are the same who urged us to bring any agreement and now tell us how they did it to remain in the euro. It is a surprise to me, and I would like to state that while they signed up to the agreement and voted for the political framework of this bill, now that it is introduced at the outset, they are voting negatively, saying that they will do so for other applicable laws as well. It is clear that this is not a change of path or an attempt to restore another likely better perspective. All they choose to do is to try to change the rules, to change the treaty of political debate, to prolong pretext, to hide the substance. Their perseverance in this situation is the sole aim of bringing us to every sense of truth, of pulling us into a state of indifference, with the aim of subjecting us all to neoliberal models of crisis management and not to a straightforward democratic way out of it. We do have a difficult budgetary agreement, and the room for manoeuvre for alternative policies is limited. But there are, and that is what we are trying to expand every day. In front of us we have the great picture of debt write-down and the definitive structural problems arrangements through the rapid completion of this law and therefore the timely resolution of this glorious link. Furthermore, this specific implementing provision has milder applications of the anticipated and more positive regulations - always the expected one - because we do not forget and do not stop saying that this loan contract is the result of a hard conflict and a product of a painful compromise point. I wish to refer to two sections which I consider to be important. The first is the early pensions, which have previously been abolished - under the previous rules - and yet the implementing provisions which come give time to the age limits, so that they can be adapted by 2023. It's a pretty good time, soothing the system in this transition. Furthermore, it is positive that this is the case from today rather than from the 1-1-2015 provided by the loan contract. The third concerns the over-aged uninsured people who have had the courage and courage to understand that they are, in fact, privileged benefits, and to withdraw them and to commit ourselves to bringing them forward as a part of the reform of the insurance policy that we will actually bring in the next period. The second section I want to mention is taxation and HISPIA. It is important to stress that this part also does not constitute a tax reform but an adjustment of applicable laws. Just the fact that a criticism of computerised regulation is being attempted, a regulation on the tolerable amount of EUR 5 to EUR 1 - it is clearly a computerised regulation - shows the weakness of arguments and the low expectations of counter-population. In the taxation of rents, right criminals, we have withdrawn the proposed arrangement at the rates of the tax in question. We undertake to bring forward to the next period and to the anticipated tax reform how the unrealistic rents will also be taxed, given that they are being abolished to the public. In addition, in positive terms, we should consider increases in the debt thresholds to the public for prison sentences of EUR 50,000 to EUR 100,000 and from EUR 150,000 to EUR 200,000, as well as a set of corrective and normalisation provisions and rationalisations relating to taxation. The regulation on the reduction of the interest rate for the twelve instalments from 8% to 5% is still positive. There is a significant negative development here concerning the regulation of the hundreds of doses and it is no coincidence that all those who perpetrated the government for the hundreds of doses are now indicting us for retreats. The lenders demanded and succeeded in raising the interest rate for these instalments from 3% to 5%, as well as the possibility of judging for a set of cases that the hundred instalments may be made less, based on assets criteria. I want to place myself as follows: it is very important that the core of the philosophy of the hundred doses be maintained. It is by itself that all those who persecuted it, now defend it, demonstrates its correctness, beyond extreme phantomism. I would like to note the fact that the 3% interest rate is 5%, since we can only do it. But it actually recasts the original hundred-dollar bill on the question that those who are in the regulation must and can reconstruct it, with different accuracy each time, because interest rates are increasing. For example, one who had a hundred instalments at 3% interest rate, might be interested in having fewer, since the interest rate is increasing. This possibility, that unilaterally changing data, should give the borrower, who is active in the regulation, the right to renegotiate it. Since my time is running out, ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you the following. This bill opens the way to get out of the crisis, a major crisis. He's trying to weigh burdens in a balanced way. He is interested in sharing the little - because we have - with humanitarian actions, unemployment, welfare and health, above all. We know that we have to manage a historic crisis, with limitations and a few political tools. But we have hope and vision in our struggle, guided by the policy of dignity, which we took on the responsibility of representing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Dean, Mr. Fortsakis, you have the floor. Immediately after that, Mr Ilhan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been heard since yesterday's debate. I will concentrate on four observations. The first relates to the general situation in which we are dealing with the regulation we are discussing today. We are in an environment extremely painful in terms of economic, excessive taxation, but also lack of liquidity. The market has reached point zero, it's literally gone dead. Anyone who knows the market knows that it does not literally move paper on the market today. The recession rate has exceeded 5% and the consumption index, which we unfortunately do not receive enough attention, shows that there is no confidence in the start of the market in the coming months. It is interesting to see the report published by a large international financial institution, the “CREDIT SUISSE” at the “GLOBAL WEALTH REPORT”, which mentions features for Greece, says that we have lost between 2008 and 2015, eight hundred thousand middle-class members. We have eight hundred thousand Greeks less than in the middle class, according to the international income criteria that apply to assess who belongs to that class. From 2007 to 2015, we have a total decrease of $488,000,000 in Greece. This is a glossy amount! And look out! Since 2007 the wealth per adult in Greece, which was $ 136,000, has fallen today to $81,300 without any prospect of returning to previous heights. Households have fallen to -17%, while the stock capitalisation index is at -55%. We have the largest global retreat in relation to these sizes. In this environment, today's bill comes to poverty who still has some wealth in Greece. I would like to make a second comment on the taxation of real estate. Of course, HISPIA is not a tax that SYRIZA put in. It's an old tax. It had already started in 2010 with the PPA, the real estate tax. Today, however, the taxation of the ENPI has taken a dramatic dimension, because now the deviation from the real market prices is huge, and in addition there is an extension of the base of this tax. Immovable property cannot be a field for taxing income a second time. The real estate, if acquired on legal income, must be taxed in return for the infrastructure provided by the State and for all the facilities provided by the State to maintain its ownership. No, however, twice tax on the same income as the one who saved it in the form of real estate! That's criminal! At this point I would like to point out that, according to the Bank of Greece, the value of real estate from around EUR 900,000, 000,000, which was six years ago, is now almost 1/3. See, then, that this collapse is not only a collapse of private property, but also a collapse of national wealth, which should be our concern. Moreover, this collapse is accompanied by parallel collapses for shares, securities and securities of all kinds of securities. At this point I would like to come to my third point, on the tax procedure, and in particular on the inextricable criminalisation of all tax obligations. We live a regime that we have seen many times working in history. We have excessive taxation that eliminates citizens, citizens cannot respond to tax burdens, and the state treats the worst violence and the worst cruelty to force them to pay what they do not have. This mathematically - historically we know that this is how it is - leads to the collapse of the political regimes which have applied such methods. And be concerned, because I believe that our state is in the process of dismantling not only because we are depleting our world of taxes which are disguised, but also because we have forgotten every sense of law enforcement. I return to the question of criminalisation. Criminalization doesn't make any sense when someone can't pay. Criminalisation makes sense when penalties are reasonable and when there is a certainty of their enforcement. It doesn't matter the size of the sentence. It is important that the penalty is reasonable, but that it be imposed, absolutely, unreasonable. It is this certainty that creates the citizen the feeling that he must obey the law. Unfortunately, we are in a completely opposite phase. We have been threatening citizens for years with the worst penalties, which has not helped to fulfil their obligations. So we need to worry about the method that we are following. The checks which are carried out are inexcusable from the point of view of their time validity. They extend to a time-frame that is completely abusive, and we already have two decisions of administrative appeals that restrict retrospectiveness in 2010. One cannot explain the acquisition of assets in a tax check when it exceeds a timeframe. The Minister's not here. He's gone. That's too bad. A regulation must certainly be made here to clarify this abusive retrospective application. I'm also going to say a word about the checks. The controls currently being carried out on taxation - because this is in line with the bill we are voting on - are checks which are carried out in abusive manner and which do not serve to collect revenue from the State, but corruption and transaction, because the controls are carried out in the following way: it is enough for the auditor to get the person concerned to explain a line - a line - all the credits and all the movements of his account over a period of 12 years. As you can see, that's impossible. On the other hand, controls should be comprehensive, in the pattern of all methods in Europe. As time passes relentlessly and will be stopped by the President in ten seconds, I will only say as a fourth point that it is absolutely excessive to treat all four methods at the same time and clawback and rebate all three countries that determine the price of the medicine. We must remember that exporting medicinal products to Greece brings about EUR 1 billion a year, that it is an exporting industry extremely important, and that the price indicated will eliminate the prospect of exporting this industry. To apply - and Mr Salmas said yesterday - the German system. For all these thoughts and what has been put forward by my party colleagues, we will vote against the bill at first, and we will only support those articles that we regard as productive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u40	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u41	Has he notified you a member of the Government that it will take the floor by 14.00 hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u42	Oh, no. So far neither the Presidents of Parliament have informed us, nor the Government. You are obviously referring mainly to the Finance Ministers. More generally, we do not have information until the moment we speak, perhaps, Mr Loverdo, because they were left with the impression that at 12 noon the time would be the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u43	The Bureau can make a consultation. For example, Mr Kourublis, the Minister for the Interior, has not spoken of Article 13. We as Parliamentary Representatives need to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u44	Okay, I understand your spirit. We'll inform the Government Secretariat. That is what we can do as the Bureau. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, living and ruling in an extremely poor and rural area such as Rhodope, one finds even more strongly that there is no greater injustice than the application of horizontal cuts in the economy and, in particular, the lack of tax justice among citizens. When the citizen, trusting the laws of the state, and in particular tax law, regulates his obligations towards the State and then reflects a tax mechanism, a different regulation that overturns the previous planning, as this bill does, then comes the great disappointment, anger and the confidence of the citizen in the state is lost. This sense of injustice is even greater when consistent taxpayers who have been household and typical over the years are now bent at the expense of taxation and say that they are unable to cope not as a panacea or as a method of stealing the state, but are able to cope with their obligations, of course leading to personal deadlocks. The lack of confidence by citizens in the laws of the state that are constantly changing creates a problem in democracy itself, ladies and gentlemen, because, as usual, such frequent changes of legislation occur only in other states. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to read you a brief statement from the President of the Rhodope Professionals Federation to see the cry of these professionals on the bill being passed. He says man: "Greece is the only country that has either a thousand euros, or you have fifty thousand euros income, you have about three hundred and four hundred euros a month contribution to the OAU." As if that were not enough, the draft law with the prerequisites actually fails to regulate the previous hundred instalments, while we were expecting that these arrangements should remain at least by a new government, supposedly of social justice, so that businesses could not resurrect but settle their costs as much as they can. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you won the January elections with the grand false promise to abolish HISPIA. In the elections on 25 January, and particularly in my own constituency, you received 70% of the minority's vote because the economic poverty of the agricultural order led them to economic impoverishment. At this point, however, I would like to remind the House of what Mr Dimitris Papadimoulis said on 4-8-2011 about ENPIA. He said at that time: "Can you tell me, Mr. Sahinides, why in this ranch about property you impose on the poorest category, on the cheapest properties, on the 3 euro pavilions the square, but hotel owners, hotels will not pay a penny, not a centimeter of the euro? Can you tell me why the temples that have revenues, which operate with priests paid by the state budget with more than EUR 200 million, will not pay anything while they will pay five million households?’ And that concerns all religious doctrines. Today, however, with the current draft law, we see that the government not only abolishes HISPIA, as promised to the Greek people, but maintains it. In fact, the exemption from HNPH for real estate is maintained within - but beware of it - and outside the Monastery of Mount Athos. I am not opposed to regulation of the law in Article 2(3) of the draft law on the discharge of HISPI at the places of worship - that is to make it clear - as in temples of every religious doctrine. But I would like to understand, Minister, why the government with this bill continues to extend the exemption to the commercial properties of the Holy Monastery of Mount Athos outside the monastery and not to places of worship. There was before, of course, regulation of the law. In this regard, and with regard to Thrace's bakuffalo property, which is established and is in existence under the special regime under the Treaty of Lausanne, and is there autonomy and autonomy in administering and managing this property, why not enjoy the same exemption and property not intended for places of worship, such as mosques, etc., as is the arrangement of Mount Athos that is exempted? Why is this distinction and the exclusion between recognized religious doctrines? The Minister must proceed with a sense of law in accordance with the legal regime that governs the Bakufia, just like Mount Athos in addition to the existing Article 2(3), so that the exemptions also include the properties of the Bakufian minority's property situated in Thrace. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you said you would abolish the ENPIA. You were talking about confiscation of property. Now you bring the simulation of ENVIA and remove the favorable arrangements. Let the Minister tell us whether the abolition will also apply to the owners of parcels. We still have a strong memory to remind you of your commitments, ladies and gentlemen. You said you were going to give the thirteenth pension. Today, not a reason. You said you wouldn't make pension cuts. Now you're reducing your lower pensions. Your barbarity is certified by the abolition of the provisions concerning our weakest fellow citizens, namely those who received a pension of EUR 460 uninsured elderly. In short, you have a national poverty pension. You said you'd bring the minimum wage to 750 euros. Today's not a word. Ladies and gentlemen, the cry of agony of all the professional farmers of craftsmen, employees, officials and pensioners of my prefecture and of all Greece, without exceptions of religion, Christians or Muslims, who coexist and coexist harmoniously in my region, is strong and true. We are called upon, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this whole bill. We as a river and I personally declare that I am voting against all the general principles of this bill, because they are in principle of a material nature and - as I said at the outset - horizontal cuts without a development perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u46	Although Mr Mandas is the only parliamentary representative who has not spoken in the first place and given that we will go first as we said until 14.00, I asked him to conclude with the names I have already announced, Mr. Theonas and Mr. Amyras, and he will speak afterwards. She kindly accepted it. I will give only the floor for three minutes to the Minister, Mr Alexiades, because something was said about Mount Athos and he wants to give an answer. You have the floor, Minister, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u47	It will be less, Mr President. Let me make it clear that there is no misunderstanding and that there is no constant and constant argument in relation to what has been heard. We are not introducing any new provision in this bill - burden-free or anything else - over what is provided for in the agreement, of 4336. Secondly, in relation to Mount Mount Athos for very clear reasons that you all know, at this time if we are going to do a process of recording property both abroad and in countries and in disputed situations, etc., all we will create is problems. We're not going to solve anything. However, we do not introduce any exemption. The discharge was in place. What are we doing in this bill? In this draft law we introduce discharge for the GOI and for certain reasons specified in the draft law's draft report. We say, "The above facilities..." - for the GOI - "... and exemptions are necessary as the GOI exploits the private property of the State in a way that will help reduce the public debt and create the foundations for relaunching our country's development process for the benefit of the Greek economy". So we're not introducing any discharge. The exemption that was in existence also concerns the GOI for certain reasons, so that there is no misunderstanding. As far as the parcels are concerned, because I am from villages, there is no charge in this bill for the parcels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u48	I would ask Mr. Theonas to come and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u49	First of all, good morning. Be a good day because many times with what is done and said here may not be good days for all of us. I would like you to allow me to make a general comment on yesterday's debate at first reading. New Democracy and other parties were placed. In fact, party representatives made statements that were to me - the designation is heavy, but I will not say names - inappropriate and have a mocking mood, which is not allowed to be heard within the Greek Parliament. I think it is unacceptable to hear such references and such observations. I have one question, especially with regard to New Democracy. He initially voted, as he says, on the agreement because he did not want Greece to be brought into crisis. Today, therefore, he fully argues that he will vote against this bill. He has every right to vote against it. But is the New Democracy not obliged to tell us what will result from an overall condemnation? Does he bet that the majority will take full responsibility for a hundred and fifty-five Members? This is an attitude, in my opinion, of fugitiveness that does not honor the New Democracy. When you say, 'We do not vote and others will not vote', it means that this law should not be passed in your view. Tell us your opinion of what needs to be done. Because if this law is not passed with its prerequisites, it means that the next day we will have measures that will lead the country to naughty bankruptcy. Say what you suggest. If you suggest this, we should go, in other words, to an unscrupulous bankruptcy, get it to the Greek people to know it. Don't hide behind your finger. From there on, in relation to always the context of the debate on the principle of the draft law which was adopted yesterday, I would like to say that it did not at all deal with the content of this agreement. I am not speaking only in terms of whether it provides for alpha, beta or gaming, or whether it takes some measures which may be of rights to workers and pensioners, such as insurance, but which, as the Minister of Labour said, is to be seen by Mr Giorgos Katrugalos. He said next month we will have this and then we will judge it as to what it does and how it does it. From that point on, I think that they have not dealt with what has ultimately imposed this kind of agreement and why the Eurogroup and the lenders insist on a Protestant punishing logic that attempts to punish not only the Greek Government, but above all the Greek people. What's that? Why are they doing so and insisting on this practice? We say, ladies and gentlemen, that one thing has terrified them first and it is very disturbing. What's that? The example of SYRIZA and his government strengthens, highlights popular movements in the European South and not just. Even the political wing of the IRA, Shin Fain, of the Irish Democratic Army, i.e., Yannis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u50	It's the Irish Liberation Army, but anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u51	...which is liberating and even using an armed struggle, it uses as an example of the development of its own SYRIZA forces and, indeed, SYRIZA of the components that had so much annoyed the officials of the New Democracy and every day - not here - Mr Samaras and the other players of the then government were dealing with his components and said that Tsipras was a charm of his components. SYRIZA's components, dear colleague Giannis, because you are laughing, were nothing but the ideological currents that created SYRIZA, initially as a place of dialogue and joint action on the left and along the way as an initiative to bring the Left together and eventually in SYRIZA for the 2004 elections. So don't worry. We will try inside, and as long as we can support this government, because it is a government which is an example for the whole of Europe. Imagine for a moment - think about the fact - that if SYRIZA contributes to changing the correlation of forces at European level - I personally measure these much more than two and three memos - such a change can lead to left radical governments in four southern countries. Do we understand what such a development means and such cooperation can be done? It can promote choices that will allow the decisions and choices of Mrs Merkel and Mr. Shoeble to be left to the margin. I would also like to say to you that I think that at some point we can see through these processes a single Mediterranean market perspective, which will involve the whole of the European South, but also the countries of North Africa. Then you will see how the main Protestants who are today ruling the European Union and condemning it to operate in this way. I think it was a deficit on your part that you did not deal with this attitude of Germany towards Greece and the Greek people at all. You have arrived today to talk about the emergence of the primary surpluses that are not used by the SYRIZA Government to support poor people's strata, when the creation of the most austerity-based primary surpluses itself is condemned precisely these layers. So now you say that surpluses exist and function and could work in the interests of these people's strata. I've talked about the hundred doses. I would like to say one more word about the hundred doses. I wanted to say that it is one of the most important legislation in Greece in recent years and does not prove it anything but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u52	Dear John, you will have to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u53	Immediately, Mr President. In any case, I would like to call on the Finance Minister to see the eight articles of the bill abolishing the corresponding articles of Law No.4331 again with more attention. We also need to look more closely at the measures to tighten up the hundred instalments, because this will be a problem for current contributions if debtors are forced to withdraw from the arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the National Blind Federation, Mr Gialouris, from the point of view of the bloodthirsty bill you have brought and which really dissolves the minimum social protection net for the most vulnerable populations, namely the disabled, said: 'We have waited for a left government'. What left government, my good man? Are there left-wing ministers who have their money abroad, their deposits outside - the legitimate ones I am not saying - and do not bring them here to support the banking system? Is the Minister left who forgot to tell his whereabouts the 1 million euro?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u56	Are we going to continue this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u57	But how many millions do you have, Mr. Manda, you left and you don't know where you're up to? This is not the ruling left, it's the millionaire left. You're the millionaire left, that's what you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u58	Let's go later now. And left-wing practice is to go from Athens to Agios...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u59	This particular minister is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u60	Don't have a dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u61	It's left-hand practice to go with an EKPB helicopter from Athens to Ayios, a hundred and eighty-five kilometers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u62	It's the first time I've seen us feel insulting when they call us millionaires.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u63	Is the Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Kappa Tau? Do your Minister have to take the helicopter of EKAB to go from Athens to St. Saint? So this is the ruling - millionaire Left!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u64	A little shame and a little modesty doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u65	Don't yell! Now let's go hear the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u66	If you don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u67	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u68	In relation to the disabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! We've been fine so far, let's not mess up. Let each speaker speak his opinion, does not mean that it is accepted by everyone. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u70	People know, people understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u71	That's right, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u72	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, and do not revolt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u73	We're not uprising.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u74	So I did not see you revolt when with this bill you actually connect the privileged benefits of the disabled with their assets.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u75	We can't hear nonsense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u76	And perhaps because you don't know how to tell you. Two are all and all the disability benefits. And when we say "benefit" we mean aid, we do not mean income. What are these? One is the extra-institutional allowance, mainly concerning quadruples and paraplegics with 67% and over disability, who cannot be moved and need a permanent escort and caregiver at home, and these are 783 euros a month. It is also the other allowance that only our pensioners with disabilities, EUR 360, especially the blind, receive. What are you guys doing now? Until the elections, the OECD toolbox was thrown into fire, a neoliberal tool. Now you follow it and on the basis of this toolbox you connect the asset and income situation to these benefits. So what does that mean? It means that if a disabled citizen resides in his own home and inherits a house in the village from his grandfather or mother or father, he immediately changes charges and goes to the charge of great real estate. Left-wing fair measure. You also cut pensions for twenty - five years in the parents of disabled children. You know that the cost of disability and the cost of a disabled person's living is two and a half times higher than the cost of an undisabled citizen. How will these people cope? One more thing. Because you're too much - how am I supposed to say it? - expensive pie and cheap in flour hours, Mr. Ministers of Government, tell me, what will you do from Monday to the buses? Will you take the disabled and the buses off the buses like a smuggler, because you have not paid OSCE the dues?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u77	They'll be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u78	What you do not know, ladies and gentlemen, is that in April 2014 - Mr Kegerogue, I think it was then, and he took over - 70 million euros of the state's dues to the OSCE to carry out this task, for the many people, for the social categories.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u79	And now they'll be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u80	Now - he says - we'll pay them! Pay it! Monday will you take him down from the bus?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u81	No, we're not getting him off the bus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u82	Let's go down. All of this, when in Ireland - which entered the memorandum after us and came out before us - once yesterday their Prime Minister there announced to them that the extraordinary levy is being reduced. Secondly, pensions increase and pre-school benefits increase. Finally, the income tax is being reduced to EUR 12 000. Remember about the 12,000 euro tax that you were saying in the pre-elections? Well, no. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my fellow Member, Mr Theocharis. Mr. Theochari, to the government, this government, you won't say they're liars. To the government that abolished HPAI, to the government that cut the debt, to the government that restored the thirteenth pension and increased the minimum wage, you will speak better! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u83	As we had made the deal, I will give Mr Manda the floor for twelve minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please be quiet. A fellow psychiatrist starts with what that means. You have the floor, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u84	A little quiet, if you want. From what point of view, ladies and gentlemen, do we propose to vote in favour of measures and options included in the Multi-Project that we are debating today? Were we suddenly forced to strengthen the party of tax evasion and tax evasion, which, as a permanent gangrane, runs through the body of Greek society, constantly burdening the lowest social layers, charging billions of losses every year to the needs of the Greek state which cost dramatically, mainly to the deficit support of the social state? Did we envy and want to imitate as nephews, as we are described by memorials, the eruption of social security, the imposition of the next time of the unjust ENVY, the foaming of favourable regulations for 100 doses, the dissolution of the Greek pharmaceutical industry and the further shrinking of the country's production base? Did we suddenly, ladies and gentlemen, as we are told, mutated and acceding to the chariot of neoliberalism and oligarchy and its representatives, both domestic and international, through a sweet and awkward cosmopolitanism? Did we suddenly get carried away from power sirens and we want to put our hands on honey? What is the truth and where is hypocrisy, lies, and distortion? What is the reality and where are the illusions? Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be clear. This is not the first time that the left, the progressive forces have been in front of such dilemmas. The modern history of the past, but also of the present century, is full of such critical moments, not only in our country but also in our even occasionally dark continent, Europe, and throughout the world. We've suffered, but we've been taught. The dangers are not nonexistent, they are neglecting, and we must have full consciousness and full vigilance. Our actions or even omissions may cost us deadly in a unique project that is evolving in this small country, heavyly cost the weakest, to bury hopes and expectations that go beyond Greece, which concern - let me say - struggles and desires of peoples and movements around the world and we must not forget that. This is precisely what the struggles of our people have been. On this point now. Our opponents, inside and outside Parliament, use a classic, little - very, rhetoric - and not only rhetoric and many other means - to degrade and deport us. What do they say, briefly? They say that, on 25 January, we followed a policy of illusion, exaggeration, errors, etc., which, in a seven-month period, led to tragic results, resulting in the third and worst-case memorandum, which they voted on in order to maintain our European path and which, because of our negotiative failure, did not support. The logical leaps are obvious, but they are deliberate distortions and omissions, and at the same time they are obvious, obvious, strategic discomfort, after the result of the recent elections. You cannot, ladies and gentlemen, as much as you have tried. You didn't make it. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that after they understood Genares and shortly before that government power was lost to them, the first time they planned, along with Europe's hard neoliberal elites, to drown us. What, then, was the real ban on the possibility of insecticides? The elimination of waiver and therefore the strengthening of our banking system with higher interest rates. The empty funds for the payments of February, as the former minister responsible confirmed. The ruthless and continuous war on the inside and abroad, with all means and, above all, the systemic media. The continued deprivation of any aid, even after the agreement of 20 February and the suffocating economic pressure. The fragmented negotiation so we don't end up anywhere. Continuous tripling in all ministries, in all critical areas of public administration, from the Memorandum of Installation. What was all this? Was it our fantasy or reality? Didn't people know the discourse of systemic today's and future opposition when they threatened us that we were doing unilateral actions with the humanitarian crisis bills, hundreds of doses and too many other legislative initiatives? Full voice! However, the revelation, ladies and gentlemen, came with the attitude of systemic opposition to the referendum, when the whole establishment told us that the referendum was on the euro dilemma or drachma. And you, ladies and gentlemen, have identified yourself with this, and you have even come down to the "deceased" for you, a sidewalk, to support the distortion that you deliberately and artificially promoted. But it didn't come out of you. It did not come to you and turn you back the overwhelming 'no' of our people, which you have not yet understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u85	Have you understood that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u86	You also did not understand that it was helpful to reject the trap which we were set up for the torture of the drop, with a few months' extensions, with harsh and frequent evaluations, with an enduring cycle of cruel austerity, namely the proposals of the lenders who had just rejected our proposal, with praise, which was totally within the limits of our programme of forty-seven pages and gave us one finalist after the other. And it opened up this great 'no' of our people, I say, a small one, an option for a forced agreement, which gives us space and time, for three years of funding, low primary surpluses, which overthrows precisely the cause of the pre-cyclical fiscal policy, in which you have been trapped for years in the country and which you do not mean to understand yet, a forward investment project, 7 billion for due debts and a commitment to debt restructuring, which has been taken - randomly - in any case? - international dimensions. And you are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, and you who voted for the agreement, and you who did not vote for the agreement, that the development of the agreement is prerequisites. And I invite you and I challenge you to tell us where the Greek Government does not move on the basis of this, that is, on the basis of the prerequisites? Look, ladies and gentlemen, there is another negotiation that continues so far as the bells are concerned. Another is the fact that we have difficult measures in front of us and we are fully aware that these also affect social strata that we want to represent and to throw the ball on the platform. But the left-wing words and the defence of rights in rhetorical speech and the responsibility of the government and the left-wing act. Besides, the JRC itself is talking about harmful exits if Greece is now leaving the euro in the specific circumstances and the correlations. Or is the danger of Grexit gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u87	Half the truth is a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u88	You'll answer. The fight with tax evasion, and other amendments like this in March 2014, which restores with retroactive effect from 1-1-2010 a provision of the repealed then n. 2238/1994, and in this way fines amounting to hundreds of millions which had been fined following tax controls on oil companies and groups that had purchased offshore companies and have made a great contribution to these procedures. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] In what respect, then, are we calling on us to vote in favour of these measures? From the point of view of maintaining hope open, ladies and gentlemen, without escape and blind conflict, in terms of hard work and left-wing vigilance. Besides, the sitter and his guns. And the only weapons we have, our only weapons are sincereness and social partiality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Manda. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and two teachers of the 2nd General School of Cesareans. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are debating today the first bill immediately after the programming declarations mentioned in the first prerequisites of the agreement which almost everyone, except for the JRC and the Golden Dawn, voted on 14 August. And while we and the three anti-population parties, New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, have voted to ensure that the country is the major, that is to say, the stay in the Eurozone and the avoidance of non-existent bankruptcy, the three New Democracy parties, PASOK, Potami - which in the referendum they said yes to everything, that is to say, much worse than those that were ultimately voted on in the agreement - are today being invoked with incredible hardship for a storm, for pension cuts, for anti-population measures, etc. We, ladies and gentlemen of Anti-Population, have a full consciousness of the painful compromise we have made, and the Greek people are fully aware, who have chosen SYRIZA for a third time as the engine of the great changes and the new era in which the country enters. You, gentlemen of the Opposition, New Democracy, PASOK and Potami, demagogue and plunder defenders, supposedly, the fairs of the Greek people you have devoured all the previous years. The New Democracy is particularly attacking with such vigour trying to hide its strategic deadlocks. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that for the New Democracy, which is currently in front of a conference - and its right to hold a conference - and in the face of a search for a leader, the problem is not the face, but the strategic deadlock of its policy. Because he does not know whether he will support social liberalism, as he says, or neoliberalism or extreme right or central or middle space, etc. On these issues it has been left deadlocked, and that is why, in trying to overcome these deadlocks, it is attacking SYRIZA with such vigour and the measures it adopted on 14 August. As for the other parties, i.e. PASOK and Potami, they do nothing but usually shout from the mountains where they sit because, especially in PASOK, PASOK has lost the 40% and 45% majesty in which it was once and now knows what else to do but to wreak and shout against us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u91	Half of PASOK you've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u92	We've taken the people's world of PASOK, and that hurts you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u93	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u94	We have taken the populace of PASOK, the weak layers that were left-wing catastrophes. So it has been our country since 1958, when the EDPS has been a Dedicated Opposition. These layers, the workers, the small and medium-sized farmers, the poor farmers, the youth, they voted Left and believed in the 1981 PASOK by Andreas Papandreou, which was mutated and became a party of power, and a party of which you are now the remnant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u95	A little respect! To Yanna Angelopoulou, say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u96	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, you were the Minister of Andreas Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u98	You should give up on him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u99	Isn't she a little ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u100	We are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, moving forward in the implementation of the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u101	Please! Mr. Wireless, stop, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u103	He didn't say about Andreas Papandreou. He said that Andrew Papandreou's party...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u104	Andreas Papandreou as leader exploited the left reflexes of society and succeeded and became power. Hello to him with pleasure! From that point on, there was a mutation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Wireless, stop, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u106	You're done. Everything you got.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u108	Mrs. Christophilopoulou and Mr. Armachene, please! I would like to ask you not to interrupt first. Secondly, if the speaker is offended or abusing or anything, you can ask for the floor. But no interruption. Mr. Loverdo, please don't interrupt. You'll have the floor later. Carry on, Mr. Armachin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u109	We, ladies and gentlemen, proceed to the implementation of the agreement with the partners - creditors, and at the same time negotiate the best possible adoption of some bad measures. Do not, therefore, be surprised by the withdrawals or changes to articles such as those on the tax rates of rents or on the unrealistic rents or the provision on pharmaceutical expenses or on the fees payable to municipalities or on the insurance funds of engineers, etc. And that is not only because it is the government's political will to amend the bill for the better, but because in the adjourned buildings in the Ministries there is still a difficult and hard day-to-day battle with the institutions to prove the incomplete sense of irrational demands that they have neither to do with the collection nor much more with the development and sustainability of the Greek economy and society. They have to do with the punitive political logic that the neoliberal European priesthood wants to impose. Exactly, then, for the consequences of SYRIZA's great victory, these consequences want to retreat them and start feeling them. It is certain that the result of the Left in Portugal would not be the doubling of the left block, but neither would the near agreement on the left with the Socialists in Portugal, and then the next. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Seven minutes are six.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u110	It wasn't six minutes. You were beginning and the time went a little later. But it's okay, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. Obviously, our bet is not to implement the extortionist, realistic and anti-grass measures that have been imposed on us. The bet is in four years' time to enter a developmental orbit with a social and environmental sign. And this will be done, by hitting the truce and corruption, by collecting so far unreservedly of the strong interests, by redistributing wealth in favour of the weak. It is clear that the situation of the exacerbation of the socio-security crisis, the collapse of public health and public education has been brought to us by the governments of the last 40 years. That's why all the crocodile tears that are shed today by the anti-population parties will fall into the void. No Greek citizen is looking after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Symphony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Loverdo, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u115	I request the floor as a parliamentary representative. I would like to invoke the Rules of Procedure of the House, which you have mentioned, and I would like you to allow me to make a few points.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u116	As a parliamentary representative you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, we have four days here, and we have shown most of us the willingness to cooperate in the preparation of the draft law and now, without each of us giving up on its political views and ideological references. There were colleagues on the majority side who spoke as if there were no draft law here and as if we were at another time. Their right. We have neither caused any reactions nor created turmoil and even the tension that has been created yesterday by all of us have shown our democratic character.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u118	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u119	However, it cannot be exploited, exploited or done what anyone in this Chamber wants, believing that this kind of political intention also states weakness. Finally, you have to respect your interlocutor so he can respect you. Mr President, it is not possible - and this is where the issues of your competence begin - to speak in a way to people, to parties who have fought it specifically in the years of the crisis, and especially those who seem that, while the crisis hit all of Greece, they did not hit them, as is apparent from their 'possibly' and from anything. A little respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u120	I have the impression that the debate on this issue is closed. We must not continue the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u121	Yes, but you did not make the slightest observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I am speaking for the same reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u123	Under the Rules of Procedure of the House, a party's parliamentary representative may request the floor and be placed. But from there on, only if you have a personal matter, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u124	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u125	Then let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, on the political issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u127	No, please! Is there a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u128	On the political issue raised by my colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u129	I beg your pardon, we cannot discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u130	We are not having a debate, a simple answer to give.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u131	But you're not. If your parliamentary representative wants to speak, speak. The Rules of Procedure do not allow you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Mada, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u134	We should, I think, consult in this Chamber. Because I was away at the moment - Mr. Loverdos knows - because I was trying to communicate with the ministries, in order to regulate time in connection with presentations of changes, changes or even clarifications etc. and because it is repeated too many times and it is a fact of time that this famous story about'subjects' is something I should like to say. Mr Loverdos - and I imagine many others in this Chamber - know very well - and you, Mr President, are an experienced parliamentarian - and the procedures and all the things that run this committee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I think that the committee itself, which, as has been said by the Bureau of Parliament, will become directly, you know that it was created - if I am well aware - after the agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u135	People have confessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u136	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u137	Their actions have confessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Javarra, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u139	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Mada, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u141	Good, but don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u142	Please, Mr. Javarra, do not interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u143	Please, I've never interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Mada, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u145	I say, therefore, that: because the committee was formed after the agreement between the PASOK and the JRC, if I remember correctly, because there was the Vice-President's theme, I think that some of them would be given and already given, and the full explanations and full interpretations of whoever wants to make interpretations about it....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u146	But for the amount he commented on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u147	But they've confessed they've committed criminal offences.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u148	Please! Keep going, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u149	Don't you want me to finish? Looks like they don't want me to finish. I don't know why they're annoying. I am always brief and careful in what I say. So I say quite clearly: please do not reinstate, and I would ask all the parties, all of us, not to bring back things that will in an institutional way be resolved and answered. In any case, this does not help either the functioning of the House or the specific procedure to be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u150	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u151	Please! Don't answer, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u152	Well, it's a good request to stop here, because all right, mud to all sides can start throwing each other, but that doesn't lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u154	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I listen carefully and with interest to the debate on ethical issues. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, be more careful and respect this House. Neither morally irresponsible are you innocent pigeons, as you would like to present yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u156	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u157	Do you know us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Brutsi, don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u159	No one, Mr. President, in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Brutsi, speak to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u161	Politics, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u162	Don't address yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u163	Neither one, Mr President, in the Chamber wants to make mistakes to the other. But listen to something. Two days now, the SYRIZA MPs and the first record they have to tell is about the moral superiority of the Left...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u164	And Voridis the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u165	...and that all other parties are identified with immorality, they are identified with interests. Hey, let's stop this fairy tale! And in the past you have, proven to the previous rule of SYRIZA, and now issues that are open and which New Democracy has not put up from this Step, other parties bring them back, but are there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] That is why I would ask you very much, if you want to balance the political system, because we know that immorality and everything else are not on a side, but it is a matter of people and people, it is a matter of worthy system and behaviour. They're spreading everywhere. So if you want us all together to stop this behavior and stop having this moral monopoly. That's the only way to balance. Otherwise, you will also listen to them as long as the issues remain open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u167	Mr Cassidyris, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has been asked for the floor. I would also like to ask you, as I have asked the previous speakers, to be mild tons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u168	In very mild tones we ask specific questions and let us leave the general references. There's a scandal here. Minister Stathakis showed up here, and he said he forgot to say a million. If we look back on the oldest "understood" of this particular event, over eight hundred thousand euros of deposits to foreign banks, such as the "JP MORGAN" and the "BLACKROCK". And we ask, is there another one million and the other eight hundred thousand? Let us not forget that for the individual concerned, a prosecutor had been asked to waive his immunity a year and a half ago for an economic scandal to the degree of a felony at the University of Crete and the whole House agreed not to lift his immunity. Here, then, there is a very specific scandal, which has remained unanswered, and we demand that abundant light be dropped in this case as well as in the finances of all the parties. That requires the Golden Dawn, which you accuse us of trampling. There's no trabucism. We ask questions, which have been left unanswered, and we demand that the economics of all the parties be given plenty of light. As the IMO checked Golden Dawn so to check all of them and there you will see that the political system is completely dirty and corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, may I have the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u170	Mr Loverdo, we must not start the parliamentary representatives' renditions, so that Members may also speak. Here, you have the floor for a minute, but I would ask you not to give a speech to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, we've been here since 10:00 this morning. We are listening to all the speakers and we have the same spirit that we have had in the past few days. I agree with Mr Manda, both politically and personally. As long as I have been in this Chamber, I have never dealt with it or transferred my personalities to politics. I'm going to go on with this. But Mr. Mandash didn't cause it. The thing caused it to be SYRIZA's speaker, who you did not interrupt, by the way. Mr President, we will tell you that we will be consensual, we will be equitable judges in all Parliament's procedures, but if we are insulted, as my colleague has done, we will respond in the same way. We tell SYRIZA colleagues to take a little care of their words because I cannot - and I am saying this again - when, they claim, the crisis has destroyed all Greece having only excluded certain SYRIZA members. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u173	Please. Mr. Mada, there's no point in this story going on. Mercy! Let's move on to the MPs. Please! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Then he'll want someone else to answer. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u174	I'd agree with Mr. Loverdos if he didn't say the last sentence and I wouldn't get up or talk again. Please very much, everyone and all. I know too many ways, Mr Loverdos, and you know it - to say one thing or the other. Your last sentence, the way you closed it doesn't honor you. I ask that we stay in Parliament's service. The institutional functioning of the House and the Commission will be cleared up and we are all judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Manda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, there is an excess of moral advantage!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Gülekas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, it is time for the Members to continue their speeches as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor of what Mr Mandas, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, said, that this should not continue. I would like to make an appeal as a colleague, that all these abuses to one or the other place, all they do, are to send a picture of Parliament outwards which I think makes us all ashamed. So let me say that all these ethical and moral advantages of the left-hand area or the right-hand area or the centre's area are novels and do not apply. Honest people are everywhere, as there are people who unfortunately have passed far below the bar that put their parties, the rhetoric of the words of their Heads, and anything else. You want to talk about the left morality? Let us talk: Appointment of friends and relatives by the SYRIZA Government is the moral and moral advantage of the Left? The fact that ministers who have not stated their incomes to the'subject to' have not said 'I didn't know, I didn't understand, will we see' is the moral advantage of the Left? Is it a moral advantage on the Left that Minister a day before he resigned appointed seven people to his office? Are these moral advantages?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Giuleka, I would like to ask you to place yourself on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u180	On the bill, Mr President, we are not listening to the bill all this time. We're hearing about the moral advantage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u181	Please limit yourself to the bill,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u182	And because these days, many of SYRIZA's speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u183	...because then they'll want others to answer, and you said yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u184	Allow me, as many SYRIZA speakers raise the Left's flag or against the Right or anything else, I would like to make one thing clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u185	Deal, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u186	In here, I told you, there are honest people who do not accept to smash their price wherever they belong in any place. And I am sincerely glad that they are here and ministers of government, who at last need to clarify some other things. And because we're talking about this left rhetoric, do you want me to remind you? Ladies and gentlemen, I do not belong to the unresolved Members. I have been a lawyer and a journalist for many years before entering Parliament and I want to speak documentarily. So listen to the ethics of the Left, since you so much want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u187	On the bill, Mr. Giuleka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u188	I am speaking for the bill, Mr President, but please allow me to speak as I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u189	I'm not suggesting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u190	Please, this is the second time you have intervened. Please allow me to speak as I do. For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u191	I'm going to interrupt to give you a clarification. I'm not suggesting what you're going to say, but I'm trying to keep the climate out. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u192	The climate is not defusing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u193	The Left is now being tried, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u194	Please, Mr. Theonas, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no. But I say this, Mr Theonas, because it is not possible for all SYRIZA speakers to come and take advantage of the rest of the places, saying that 'You are not entitled to speak' and that 'we of the Left' have the moral advantage!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u196	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u197	So, listen, you on the left: "We cancel the memorials and law enforcement. We are implementing a programme of economic, social and productive recovery, which will heal workers' blows, with their wages, with decent living, creating new jobs and dignity pensions." You said that and it's SYRIZA's political decision. It's your decision. And you know what else you were talking about? We are establishing, you say, public special-purpose banks and cancel the planned privatisations and plundering of public wealth. It's your decision, SYRIZA's decision. It is also a political decision of your Central Committee, which says: 'SYRIZA has made clear in every direction that for the necessary change of course the country requires, firstly, the deletion of most of the debt, the abolition of the memoranda, fair taxation, on the basis of total property and economic potential, rather than overcoming the poor'. And of course, the rejection of SYRIZA's privatizations is a political decision. And I conclude, to remember a little - and I am pleased to say that they are also government ministers here - what the political decision of your Central Commission said, not 2013 or 2014 - why you will tell me that the circumstances have changed - but in May 2015, 24 May 2015. What were you talking about? 'This Government will not sign a Memorandum of Understanding. Four months now, we are refusing Italian scriptures. Those who believe that they will humiliate Greece are playing with fire. If credit suffocation and things continue, let no one doubt that the payment of wages and pensions is of absolute priority." To tell me, ladies and gentlemen, which have the moral advantage, all that I have read to you and which are your texts and texts, a few months ago, do they have anything to do with reality? The third, the most prestigious of the memorials, was brought by the Tsipras - Kammenos government. I do not understand, in other words, your moral advantage to where it is spreading and where it ends. And you want to talk about the rest of the moral advantages? How did you once come to power? I'm talking about last January. By saying that you will increase the basic salary to 751 euros, the tax-free at 12,000 euros, that you will give the tenth pension, that you will abolish the HPAI, that you will delete most of the debt, that by a law you will abolish the Memorandum. That's what you said. What did you do? Absolutely the opposite. I am talking about your moral advantage, to end with this story about the moral advantages of one place and the other. And let me also tell you something else. Because you are talking a lot about the moral advantages and practices followed by the previous ones who are no longer entitled to speak, I say to you: Do you know what the Prime Minister of Alexis Tsipras and the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, said, with all due respect for office and institution? That what the previous governments have done, which have been legislating by legislative acts, are of plunge origin and afflict democracy. Do you remember how many legislative acts, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling party, you brought in the first seven months of your governance? Do you remember how you legislated? With punctualities - as you said, that is - and inventions. And do you come and legislate, the 'first left government', with your moral advantages? Is that how you legislate? So where did your moral advantage go? Last fig sheet fell. And you know why? Because you're looking for an alibi. It is a mistake between what you have said and you have not kept what you have brought. And you're trying to wear a tight suit that doesn't suit you, trying through this rhetoric to justify. And I come to the bill in half the minute I have left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me some more time because of the holidays. What's this bill doing? So tell me, what does this multi-project have to do with the principles and values that you serve? We've heard here about redistribution of wealth. Of course! You redistribute wealth by increasing tax rates, increasing the tax advance, reducing pensions and wages, unless the one who gets 1,000 euros is the owner and, of course, you can slaughter! Because with this multi-project, you're slaughtering everyone. What are you doing with this plan? How do you protect our socially and economically weaker citizens? You're bringing a throat to literality! Of course, that is the principle, because the other measures we have not seen here, such as the measures for farmers, which you will literally wipe out the young farmer, because the measures are horizontal. What does all this have to do with your rhetoric and what you were saying? Honestly, I can't understand! I would like to say more about the bill, but because we have heard a lot about the moral advantages, I have spent my time explaining a little bit that those who put the cubit very high are at risk of passing, as I said, under the bar and eventually being humiliated about what they were saying and doing. On this point, Minister of Finance, Mr Chakalote, I would like to make an appeal to you. Within the bill, in the repealed provisions, in addition to all others, you are also abolishing this allowance from the OGA granted to our repatriated brothers from the countries of the former Soviet Union and our Northcontinental brothers. Look out! Here you do not reduce wages and pensions, but you are effectively abolishing the only aid they have had. And because I want to be absolutely fair, this aid was abolished in 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Giuleka, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. This is something that Mr Tsakalotos notes. In April 2015, you, your government with v. 4331 said he will give it reduced by what, but he will give it. It has never been implemented today with the repealed provisions you are relinquishing it. I would like to give you the letter - which I will deliver to you, Minister, and I will also present to the Minutes - sent by the President of the Omonia Leonidas Poppas by the Saints Saranta and which says that it is not possible today for those people who have forty-five years passed through the hardest dictatorship of Enver Hoxha and Ramiz Alias to literally fall and waste the land of Northern Epirus. Here, I give you the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Giuleka, please! You must finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u201	Please, Minister, see you again! I would like to appeal to you for our fellow people, for those people who are not in Greece. I told you again: we do not reduce their wages, but we actually cut their oxygen. They can't live otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I fully understand the position of the government which needs to go through some prerequisites, as has been done in the past and by other governments. This time, however, because of the bad negotiation, the inconsistency that existed with the institutions and the lack of credibility, it will be a draft 'I said - unscrupulous' bill, a 'rave-slapped' bill, 'written-switched', because things that we voted on in spring and summer, now we have to 'vote' them. We have been talking about it since May and the Prime Minister has been accusing us of the fact that we have been urging him to bring any agreement. In an interview with him, however, at the station "In Red" on July 29, 2015, the Prime Minister admitted: "The climate was more favourable to February. We were lured after February 20 in a negotiation which was essentially a lasting deterioration of our flesh." I mean, for his own mistake, as he himself admitted, he blamed us for warning him. Unfortunately, he didn't listen to us. In July, any credibility of Greece was lost. The banks closed down, we went to capital control, and a god knows when we're going to get out of them. We have reached the edge of the abyss and a heavy agreement has come with the measures we have to adopt today. I'll focus on two of the bill articles. I shall begin with Article 21 with the repealed provisions. In the repealed provisions, therefore, the possibility given to young scientists, engineers, doctors, lawyers, who are subject to the EBRD is removed from the scope of the EBRD. We voted in favour of Amendment No 4331/2015. This had given thousands of young scientists who in crisis could not cope with the high insurance contributions and thus chose a lower class in order to maintain themselves in the profession. According to the accounting data available to the Technical Chamber of Greece, in the first half of 2015, in a highly material environment, the application of this regulation only to the free professionals and engineers had yielded additional revenues of EUR 9.2 million, i.e. an increase of 13.8%. Also, in relation to the second half of 2014, seven thousand two hundred eighty-six more engineers were consistent with their insurance obligations. The revenue collected improved, in relation to the budgets, 48% in the CSMEC and 73% in the Legal Fund. Any abolition of the current provision, i.e. this law, will result in a fall in the collection and worsening of the EFF's position with regard to this fund, as well as a deterioration in the position of the insured and, in particular, of the new scientists. This and much more were heard in the hearing of the institutions with data and figures. The point is, therefore, that the abolition of this possibility for young scientists to have their insurance contributions reduced, that is to say, to be in a lower class, will effectively expel even more young scientists abroad, particularly doctors and engineers, which we see to be done. And then we'll cry for what's called Brain Drain. On the other hand, we will have a fund which will have no receipts and will be essentially responsible for dismantling. But let us see why these provisions are being abolished. They were beneficial to both the insured and the fund. So why are they being abolished? I would remind you that the abolition of these provisions is due to the fact that unilateral action has been considered on the basis of the agreement of 20 February. We, of course, said that in May, had warned. But then we were 'the Brussels parrots'. So if you had heard 'the Brussels parrots' today, thousands of people would not be in a position to be insured. At this moment in time, we may have to see some transitional provision which may not remove this possibility, which - not least - applies to the other free professionals insured in the AIFM. The second relates to Article 13, which deals with fees for various major projects to the municipal authorities. There, under Article 13, there is, in fact, the risk of charging fees to municipalities from the various owners of major projects, such as Athens International Airport, Attica Street, etc. We're talking about expected debts of tens of millions. The clarification given yesterday by Mr Kourublis, who said that this would not apply only concerned final decisions, and there are many outstanding cases, which are currently in the courts, such as Markopoulou Municipality and neighbouring municipalities around the airport. In particular, therefore, the municipalities in the eastern Attica region, where such large infrastructures exist, such as the airport and the Attica Road, are concerned about the non-payment of the debts. Who is favouring and who is affected, then, by this measure? Have you considered it? Aren't you guys, after all, screwing with the big-timers? So show it. Are we going to vote against the article, the 'intertwinners', which you have dragged so much, and you will vote for it, the irresponsible ones? Let's see. Let's leave the future and let's go see for the past recompense fees. Why should previous debts be granted? were not included in the feasibility studies and the contractors’ business plan? How can these terms be changed retrospectively? Others could have participated in the competition if they knew it all along, given a higher price. Also, in Article 13, which deals with the fees, it actually causes distortion of competition where, in other words, identical undertakings in the same region or one pays a fee because they do not own a public property, while the other operating public property does not. As an opposing point, I would like to make it clear that there is a misunderstanding: you are telling us, gentlemen of the conflict, the following: 'You have voted on the agreement, now vote on its implementation'. Wrong. The fact that we have voted to rescue the country does not mean that we will vote in favour of your mistakes, which, after all, we are not participating in. It's a situation as if you were driving drunk a car, we helped you turn the wheel last minute so you don't fall on the rocks, we all got off the floor, and now you're telling us to pay for the damage of the car from this little impact. You're telling us to put our backs on. In something we believe to be in the right direction, we'll put our backs on. But don't expect us to say "NEI" in everything and don't blame us for it. We are opposition, after all, and we are not a coup d'état. We do not, therefore, participate in the formation of what comes in this House. You have a responsibility. We also told you about a national negotiating team. You didn't want to. So let's see what your negotiation can do. On the one hand, you do not want to participate in the government or even in the negotiating group, because we are the 'coffees' of Brussels, and on the other hand you are telling us that we are not doing Mr Moscovisi's favor to vote on the measures, as he is urging us. So this situation could also be said as a political bipolar disorder. So decide, gentlemen, what do you want: Cooperatives in saving the country or naive to share your own exclusive mistakes and amateurs? Finally, we will vote in favour of this plan and some articles, which we think are in the right direction, and we shall vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr Mavrota. Mr. Tasoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u205	The bill we are called upon to discuss these days and to put it in place this evening concerns budgetary adjustment measures. I would like to say that it relates more to measures of self-determination. These are the measures of an atrocious self-determination against which you still hold desperate resistance, verbal rather than practical. These desperate verbal reactions, which you have in vain, are the swan song of populism, which, in my opinion, you are expressing. You stand against the status quo and describe the opposition parties today as supposedly expressors of the status quo. Let's see, what's the establishment? I consider SYRIZA to be the electoral retreat of the Trans-Society. But you are the ideological front of the Meta-Russia. The establishment which you are emphasizing and which I, which I am supposed to express, does not feel like representing it, is that establishment which has formed a common opinion over the years, which believes more in conspiracy theories than in the theory of responsibility. A sense has been created in this country, which is due to the ideological domination of the Left, which the establishment you fear confirmed and constantly helped through the media that are your enemies, through all this leftist and disciplinary workshop for forty years. So all this led and came and your electoral domination today, which is eight months old. He says in his book "The apple of shame" for Greek officers during the occupation, that they were people, Mr. Javarra, dedicated to the establishment, but did not see any establishment worthy and willing to appreciate their devotion. This establishment exists in Greece. Where did you see the establishment? Is it established that there is an ideological domination that has been helped by the establishment, which dictates and says that we are not responsible for what is happening to us? Is there any sense in saying that Greece had a rotten political system for forty years, and that you would call it impunity, and I think it is the biggest hurdle against the Greek people? Why don't you say the next sentence? In other words, the Greek people, who honoured you in the last elections, voted unannounced forty years, unorthodox, unrepentantly rotten and corrupt? What do you mean for the Greek people? If you think that the Greek people are dominating and if you believe that they are the master of his opinion, should we look at all the words and concepts again? Do we have to understand that here you are misguided and denying the reality that you are voting for the admission? You say in the introductory report of the preliminary draft budget that the budgetary targets were achieved between 2010 and 2014. In the period of 'prevention', in the period of'merkelism', in the period of 'nationalism', in the period of 'documentation', the budgetary objectives were achieved and the beast twins improved? Did we have in 2013 and 2014 by the government of quisligs improve twin deficits? How do you say that at the same time you're eviscerating all these excesses? You were born in the words of your ideological sovereignty with an ally the establishment of the Post-Society and you are desperate to salvage words and concepts when your actions and behaviours, when your taxes, the reductions in pensions, when your country's collapse disguises. Do you know why you were voted too many? Do you know what their argument was? "Not that I believe they will improve my life. I vote for them because I have nothing to lose." This depressing, unscrupulous admission is not praiseworthy. It is not praiseworthy to try to equate Greece down. Because that's what you're trying to do! You don't give hope to the world. You confirm a perception, that things are predetermined, that the downward course is predetermined, at least let us all be five, at least let no one raise a head. You do not address a healthy feeling, in a glamour of hope, which says, "I am voting on them to raise a head, so as not to be unemployed, I am voting to advance". They vote SYRIZA because they have nothing to lose. These aren't talk. We don't want society to be that way. Evidently there have been mistakes in the post-government. But in Postpopulation Greece saw the greatest progress ever seen as a country and from Psorocotina it became a full member of Europe. Evidently this was based on credit. Errors have been made. There was a client system and populism. You have been the electoral retardation of post-population with your three and fours. But you've been her ideological front. And today you are trying to save the words that have kept you on the surface. The country, thanks to the pragmatic terror of the Prime Minister, has been detained in Europe at the last minute. And it was held with our vote. However, the country cannot progress and serve the goal of not going any worse. The country is not meant to equate the Greeks downwards. It is not meant to cultivate envy to those who have endured. The goal is for the upright Greece to pull the kneeling up and not for the kneeling Greece to pull the upright down! We represent this assumption. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We made mistakes, but we assumed our responsibilities. We see today that this bill does not dare you to assume your responsibilities. We leave you as representatives of a pessimism and we ask the Greek people to understand us from now on as representatives of an optimism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We do not want Greece to be lowered. We want private initiative, development, promotion. We need progress. We want the upright Greece to raise the kneeling. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we are voting against your bill and your ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Mr Tasoula, but there was no need for a conflict. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u207	That is the case, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party. The New Democracy moves your hand, after you despised it with the third memorandum, and now also criticizes you that you are anti-grassroots when you implement the programme that has given you. As far as we are concerned, this law implementing the third memorandum could only have an anti-popular, savage, burdensome measures for the working class and the popular strata and favourable for pluralism. I would also like to say something, since Mr Chakalotos is here. He was honest in his speech, and I say that sincerely. What did he say? He told us that, on the one hand, there are the poor, meaning the impoverished, and on the other, there are the monopolies that we do not touch, but privileges, tax exemptions, profitability are being given. There are, of course, the poor and the middle people who are draining them with the storm and the alibi of taxation. Of course, you can catch the tax thieves. But is this money going to the unemployed? Are they going to the low pensioners and low wages? No, of course not. In the chapter you will touch them. In fact, you are showing that you half-correct some battalions and promise that you will see in the future something most, cultivating polluting hopes, as you do, to earn time and unintentionally break the lives of the people and especially youths with half life. Consolation to the sick before his soul comes out! But what can you fix? The cruelty and inhumanity of measures? But as you shine them, they're wild and they're ranking you into the bourgeois governments working for the privileges and profitability of business groups and the cracking of the populaces. At a speed, in a violent way, you are urging the shrinking of the middle layers that have endured and survived with many sacrifices. Now, they are levelled with the tax storm and the tax-paying that you call them 'orthodoxisation'. Rejoice her! Of course, you are not saying about the provocative tax exemptions of the capital. You leave them in the unpredictable. But you should know that the world did not vote on you for that and do not falsify its vote. Otherwise, you come with promises of the new NSRF or the Juncker package that will go where they went and all the previous ones, since the terms and conditions of the European Union and of the monopolies are aids for large enterprises, and do something very little for small as an alibi if they are left until 2020 with the slaughterhouse that your policy promotes. It will, of course, follow the second tougher package. Here, indeed, is your class policy. You support and implement capitalist barbarism and beat and break everything that has been left in the people's world. Then, with courage, you talk about a movement and a change of power correlation. Well, the mockery has its limits. You keep the unfair tax, the ENPIA, and you impose and demand that it be paid even by the unemployed, and even in greater than the real values. I mean, the robbery exceeds every limit. At the same time, you extend it to micro-hotels with a few rooms. However, you exclude large-scale owners and special-purpose companies, that is to say, those anonymous big companies that participate in the PPPs, in public-private partnerships. You're overthrowing the insurance. Increase the retirement threshold to sixty-seven and reduce pensions to sixty-seven. You curtail state participation and contribution for the period 2015-2016 by 2.25 billion to ensure free money for bankers and big investors. You are getting to the point with the conclusions of the Committee of Wise Men and people who have been paying for their contribution to their pensions and decent old age, which you are snatching. You set life expectancy and connect the amount to whether or not they have a home or a holiday home, i.e. no guarantee of the amount of the main pension. Cold robbery! And you are enthusiastic and provocative because you are leveling, scanning in a violent and immediate way, and the minimum social security characteristics left. That's right. You're pulling out the dirty work that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have left in the middle. Well, fair and class unions, as far as we're concerned, make the symbolic occupation of the Ministry of Labour to see what the world's coming to. You don't have mercy on either unsecured over-ages who don't have a fate in the sun. It is inhumane not to have any crumbs, not least! This is the barbarity of the capitalist system and your policy. Even in Article 15, it is not a given medicine is cheap. It could increase their price. On the contrary, it is not a word for non-prescribers, since 100% of them are paid out of the patient's pocket. Your promises are socks. You are presenting the antimony and now you are implementing the most horrendous memorial at a rapid rate. As far as we are concerned, do not falsify the JRC's positions in order to justify the cruelty of your measures that hit unemployed pensioners up to workers and young scientists. And they follow even harder measures, especially with the farm waiting for it in the corner, to shrink those small- and medium-sized people who managed to survive. However, I should like to say that we have not received any responses to Articles 19 and 20, nor did the Minister for Agriculture appear. But we are saying this clearly: we call on the people not to show any tolerance and waiting. Politics leads you to half a life. We call on the people to assemble and show their power massively, starting from this afternoon at the rally in Omonia and to join the unscrupulous class clubs by claiming permanent and stable work, wages and pensions so that they can live with dignity, public and free health, education, welfare, not to allow them to become slaves of the 21st century. This means the break and overthrow of capitalist sepsis and barbarism. We, the Communist MPs, will be there in front of the labour movement and the populace.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. The Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr. Chironis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. I have been forced to speak despite the fact that I have listened carefully to the statements and opinions of the ministers, who I think have completely covered the matter. But there are some things that need clarification. There's a desperate attempt to be all one, to identify ourselves with the vicious past. Yesterday, spokesman of the New Democracy said, denounced here in the House, that the Ministry of the Environment pays 2 million per month rents and received noisies, reasonable complaints that 'what are you doing?' Of course, no one understood that these scandalous conventions have been signed over past governments and we are going to abolish them now, let's go see what we're going to do with these rents. There is a rent, therefore, actually EUR 27 per square with the warehouses. Shouldn't we go to the known Scandalology that "he's got it? He didn't take it? What happened to the person responsible, the civil servant and his political leader?' It's none of my business. I'm telling you, it's not my concern if it was a loot or if it was incompetent. How interested the Greek people. What is of interest to the Greek people is that any small owner today narrows to rent with EUR 3.5.7 per square if he is a mansion with EUR 10 and the Greek State pays EUR 27 per square. And instead of apologizing someone and saying: "Yes, we did that," they come here and bring it as a complaint. We heard the spokesman of the New Democracy a moment ago saying that "we went in front of Greece, but there were some mistakes". All we live today is some mistakes. 25% of GDP, the collapse of the Greek income, the fact that the debt was ejected into not 116% of your plans, but at 180% - 185% last year was in January - all this was some mistakes and because of all that we are now starting to become one. No, it wasn't some mistakes. There are issues, ethical issues. Nowadays, then, there is a company, a particular company, the CSI to Aspropyrgos that was recently burnt. We have of course tabled - it is no accident - the new National Waste Management Plan. However, for the CHR which was burned - because I do not want to say what happened, because there were public prosecutors - since 2011, there have been reports from environmental inspectors on criminal and civil liability, and not only have the witnesses still been summoned - and, of course, the judges have to be judged, it is not the judicial authority in the unavoidable - but at the same time, the decentralised one has taken two other extensions. He got two extensions, got a good one. Not only did they shut him down as they had to, but he also took two extensions. And we also have protests from the inspectors that they have also received pressure to prevent environmental inspectors from presenting their report. So the illegality of 2011 remains unpunished today by justice. So the Egyptian Prime Minister's CSCE burned down a second and third time. And this business is considered a private initiative. This private initiative has been supported and supported by Greece, unfortunately, as a political regime. I, too, call it the word'scheme' and dare to deny me that it was a private and public sector regime, an introvert that was releasing the country. That was the reality. Well, let me say yes, I personally disagree with HISPIA. We have, as a party, tabled another tax on the reserve. To stress, we are in favour of the property tax, we are in favour of the property tax, we regard it as a fair property tax. Let's talk about it if you really want it. This, then, is not a property tax, it is not a good thing, it is not a fair property tax. Let's talk about it if you want. Okay, we apologied or were judged in the last elections that we did not have time to change this unfair property tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u210	Change him now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u211	But can I hear criticism from the Members who created him, voted for him and brought him to Parliament when they brought him in? Why didn't this criticism happen then, like we did, be another property tax when it was voted on? Well, we apologise that we didn't have time to change him, but you guys who voted for him, you come to us today, and I hear plows telling us how unfair a tax is and how much is the glorious hotel in Santorini like the small farmer himself on the island that has a field on the mountain? Yeah, it's an unfair tax. Let's talk about him. But, up to a limit of criticism, because you brought him in. To make things clear, to speak a little politically, because not all of this is political, all this is football. I'm going to ask a very simple question. Yeah, we all got together with our backs on the wall, would you? You want to make the wrong negotiation? Whatever you say. This was judged by the Greek people. You want to say that we don't believe in what the JRC comrade says? Let's take that as well. We don't believe in such a kind of economy. So in the common position of August and July, we agreed to accept a horrendous agreement. It's not what we wanted. Let's accept that you didn't want it either. You wanted something better. But if yes had passed in the referendum, the agreement would have been Mr Juncker's five-month agreement. And I ask you, why would the five-month period end? Then what would we do? Let's assume you won the election. What kind of deal would you bring? Good. Some law implementing would bring you too. So, what would that law say? Let's have a little chat. What would that law say? Let me tell you what he'd say, 'cause the counter is specific. You have given us that it is ninety to ten more taxes and not less costs. This is the essential ideological difference, if it is ideological. Because it's not ideological and I'll prove it's not ideological. So you blame us for having many and burdensome taxes, while your own possible legislation, your possible application, if you had won the elections, would have been no more tax, would have been a less state. However, in a lesser country - and I do not hear that its state is larger than Ireland, we have heard that - with islandity and mountain tumors, it means less schools, it means worse care, less controls - what we were talking about for inspectors is fourteen all of us throughout Greece - that is, more impunity. It means much more delaying the approval of town planning, the approval of general town planning, the approval of spatial planning projects. It means that at the moment, what is happening today, at least in my own ministry that is totally obsolete and cannot serve the businessman and the citizen, will be intensified. That means less of a state. Less state in a state that, from the McKinsey report - after all, it is not a report of the ideological backwardness of the Left, but is a report of the Hellenic Association of Industries and of the Association of Greek Banks - it seems clear that the Greek state is not one of Europe's big ones. It's below average. And this report, in fact, is before deforestation from 2010 until today. So this less state means a limit of inefficiency. What is the alternative to a collapsing state? Obviously, or it will be a smaller state and it has shown that if this is not done, because it means collapse, it means Botswana, it means third-world situations or it would be forced, at least temporarily, greater taxes. So here, I stand by the third model. And the third model is a more efficient state. But this doesn't come with magic wands, nor does it come in a couple of days or one month. That is why the Greek people again gave the vote to SYRIZA. He gave it because he trusts him that he will not bring this vicious state that has been dominating so many years. That is why I believe that SYRIZA has the moral advantage of making the most effective state. This is what the private sector expects, and that is what the public expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Minister, and for the consistency of time in particular. We're on. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today, its principle, is still linked to other developments that have taken place these days in the country and I will explain how, Minister. The Minister for Labour yesterday made the meeting of the Committee of Experts on the new insurance available to the public. What did we see there? Only those on the poverty line will receive, with income criteria, the minimum pension of EUR 360, while the most important element, which is the replacement rate, is not clearly identified. It has been said, and it is throughout the press, that 55% will be the replacement rate and it will be about the average of the whole working life of the insured. And here I would like to remind the House that the 2010 Loverdus - Koutrumani law - which you had criticised very much - has a 76% replacement rate and the lower rate of substitution is 62%. We will not put any ideological bumpers or obsessed ones. We shall, however, ask you, gentlemen of the government directly. With the new system that you are proposing - and which seemed to be what they are - the new insured have more hope of adequate and better retirement? With the new system you're proposing, the pensions will remain intact? Aren't you going to be reduced? Are they going to improve? Because if that is the case, we shall vote on it with both hands, not with one. But I'm afraid that's not the case. And, ladies and gentlemen, we have said a great deal of, not of hunger pensions - and there have been many cuts from us for the same reasons that you have invoked today, having voted on the third unnecessarily, the worst memorandum - and that we cannot have any further horizontal cuts. What's this bill doing? Horizontal cuts. Of course, the abolition of the CSR and the medium-term reduction of 3% of all pensions by increasing health contributions to both basic and supplementary pensions have taken precedence. Having done this already, this bill comes to do what? In fact, to abolish the lower pension and bring about 10% reduction in lower pensions. What else does this bill do? It abolishes the pensioning of uninsured overtime, which you have brought, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We had voted for it because it was something that we were fighting - as our rapporteur said - and with amendments for a very long time. So we voted for it, and today we are calling for it to be voted on. Here's how this bill is linked to what's coming. I would, however, like to stress - and this is a bright example again - by trying to quote some elements which may help the ministers to change until night to the most positive one or take back the vote on a very important provision - which we once again voted on, you brought it, we had fought it, together with the military bill - which concerns younger people, especially doctors, engineers, lawyers, who have been able to choose for two years a lower insurance category, namely, to pay less contributions to withstand the pressure on employment. This regulation is, in general, yours, ours, outside the scientists themselves, a very successful arrangement. Why? Because besides, after giving breath to new professionals, what else did he do? He gave temporary breath to the funds and in this respect to the EFF. I want to give some evidence showing it. We have in 2015 insurance contributions in this fund from 40,775 insured persons compared to 33,589 insured persons we had in 2014. That is between 2014 and 2015- already before closing in 2015- we have an increase of 21.7%. And also, Minister, we have a collectivity in the fund, in the EBRD, which has increased dramatically in relation to the second half of 2014. In other words, we have EUR 9,200,000 more revenues in this fund. Now comes the government with this bill and says that it was a Memorandum of Obligation - as shown in the explanatory statement - to abolish this possibility of placing a lower category of insurance? So you're voting because the bad troikas -- the quartet now, institutions, tell them what you want -- they told you? Are we going to vote on this, because that is what your explanatory statement says? No, ladies and gentlemen. And I'll say that to help. Because I really do beg you to take this provision back. It says in your explanatory statement that you must cancel measures which are unilateral and which would adversely affect budgetary objectives. So I have shown - and there are more things that you can get from the relevant associations and from the EBRD, from the president who came here and told us in committee before the plenary - and you can see, Minister, that not only is it harmful but it is financially helpful. One, then, the prisoner. Secondly, it is not pension because once again what you have negotiated and to which you have agreed is not to have unilateral pension actions. You never brought the agreement here on 20 February, you hid it to hide, you took unilateral action. In this case, however, it is not a pension, in the narrow sense of the term, but it concerns the category of insurance, insurance itself, but not a pension. And since there are these two arguments, this provision can be left and we, as a Democratic Independent, are asking for it to be left. Mr. Blonde is here, and I want to stick to the medicine a little bit. I am sure, Minister, that you want the best because I believe that you have no intention of harming anyone insured, sick and, of course, not even the EEA. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance because I make some suggestions, as with other colleagues. What do we say? We propose that Article 15(2) be deleted, Minister. In the improvement you have told us that you will bring it, if you insist on it, the wording is that 'prices of generic medicinal products' regardless of when they are judged 'to be set at 32.5% of the price of the reference product'. We believe that this regulation will improve so that our priority is not the expensive medicine, but that it is also to support cheap medicine and, secondly, to support the Greek, domestic pharmaceutical industry. We can't stand any more closures and other unemployment. Finally, and I conclude with that, we have Article 13. Ladies and gentlemen, I am waiting for Mr Kurubli - other colleagues have said so before me - to come and do what he promised. I am, in particular, in a region of East Attica, where there are major projects, these large projects of the very bad period, you know, of the post-population that nothing has happened in the country and everything has been destroyed, such as the Attica road, airports, etc. And I want you to tell me why Mr. Kourublis does not bring about a clear regulation that does not separate the cases that have been settled and which have not been finalized and which separates the municipalities in the Mesogeia, but perhaps there are cases of this kind throughout Greece, in two categories, to those who will receive the reward fees and to those who will not be collected? Ladies and gentlemen, we will obviously vote against Rule 13, but it is not there. The point is to improve and bring Mr Kourublis here to change and improve the regulation he has brought. Finally, as a Democratic Integration, we are voting against the principle - examples I have brought, their reasons - this bill. We will vote on individual provisions because the opposition we are going to make will be on the basis of regulations, with political arguments and political criticism. No one can take away this right that the Greek people have given us below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, sixty-seven Dutch students and students from the region of Rosedal. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. The debate, three days now both in committee and in plenary, was marked by the controversy between the parties who voted for the memorandum on their attitude to the bill we are discussing. The SYRIZA Members are amazed, they do not understand the attitude of the opposition parties who, while voting for the third memorandum, are now voting against the measures they are implementing through this plan that we are debating today. The New Democracy, the PASOK and the Potami answer how they voted for the memorandum to save the country. But they're telling you this memorandum is yours and you're gonna have to raise it yourself. Is there any contradiction in this attitude? Is there a discomfort, as SYRIZA Members have told us? No proposals for opposition? Is this a fugitive stop? How does this controversy, in any case, explain? Ladies and gentlemen, the urban political system has exceeded the way it went - it is not the moment to analyse it - its trembling. In other words, a government that continues to implement a policy that serves the interests of the bourgeoisie. However, the problem of the bourgeoisie is not only that of forming a government that is implementing its policy of meeting its profitability. That is why the attempt to rebuild the urban political system is continuing. The bourgeois class needs the other pole. It needs backup solutions. This is how the game is played in the urban political system. Everyone must have a distinct role in trying to implement this anti-popular policy that shields the profitability of business groups. There is also the need to absorb the indignation, which will, in any case, be glossed by the implementation of this anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots policy. This is where the workers must interpret the attitude of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the River, who, while all voting together in the third memorandum, now appear to disagree with the measures that are implementing it. Such a confrontation, in our view, is callous, but it is useful for the system. And it's callous, because you all agree to the core of this policy. It is also useful for the system, because it must also be seen to the people that you have differences. But you should be aware that with such tactics you will not be 'washed' by the fact that you have already voted for all the anti-grassroots measures by voting together for the third memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, this multi-project shows that the attack by the government, the European Union, the capital, does not stop. Let me remind you that these measures are not the first ones brought by SYRIZA - ANEL. He has voted for two more packages of prerequisites, voted for the memorandum, now he will also vote for the multi-brand plan. And, unfortunately, it won't be the last. These measures are a pretext of the most cruel and sweeping attack that will continue in the next period, with a view to the complete dissolution of the social character of insurance, the smuggling of wages and pensions, labour rights. Take these measures, eat what has left the flesh of the people, because these measures are necessary for the recovery of business groups. You are now setting the target and those who are not today in a situation of extreme poverty, those who believe that they are 'beneficiaries', that is, the rich of EUR 1,000. You even reduce lower pensions. You are chasing off the falsified pensions of the ultra-aged, the privileged pensions of the OGA and especially the repatriated relatives. In fact, according to the Pontian Federation of Greece and the Homogenous Committee, over forty thousand pensioners will find themselves completely unprotected and without any means of living. And what are you telling us? Now vote for the abolition of pensions and later we will consider giving a benefit, while all of you know that in recent years it has been reduced and continues to reduce the state welfare budget. This course is not going to change in the next few years. So here's a cloud! This is your social sensitivity. On the other hand, you are challengingly continuing to support big capital. Why else is the exemption from the contributions to the municipalities and the deletion of debts to OSE and TRAINOSE? You delete debts against third parties, you pass them to the state, with the aim of "cleaning" from the burdens of the past and making them privatised. But the clearest thing we've lived in this Chamber for three days now. Literally we became his witnesses to slaughter lads on the pharmaco-industrial apron. While shouting about the destruction of the domestic pharmaceutical industry and the government answering that there are other financial instruments to strengthen it. Mr. Secretary of Health, I'd like you to listen to me. It is characteristic, in any case, that the Minister for Health was placed last night. Do you know what you're telling them, gentlemen of the government? We'll get you the egg, but we'll give you the chicken that makes the gold eggs. That's what you tell the pharmaceuticals. At the same time, cultivate illusions to the people, that the growth of their profitability with greater penetration on the domestic market can go hand in hand with the interests of workers in the medicine and meet the modern need for cheap quality medicine. You hide that health and medicine are being plundered by the reforms of the European Union and the parties that respect its framework, which put costs on the people. Workers will have to fight for a state-run drug in an exclusively public health system without any business activity. Abolition of VAT on medicines, abolition of workers' participation in pharmacy expenditure, taking responsibility exclusively for the State. Finally, we call on the workers, the people's layers, even more dynamically, even more decisively, with even greater massage to organise their struggle, to escalate their struggle. Corrections do not take policy that breaks the people to regain the profits of business groups. The people have the only choice to fight it, to make it difficult, in order to overthrow it, along with the causes of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Vardalis. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. ‘Forwarding’, ‘forgetary tax’, ‘forgotten’, ‘forestry’, ‘forestry tax’. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just read you some indicative paper titles in the last few days, which describe what we are called today to discuss in plenary, namely the first ones of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, all signed by Tsipras - Kammenos, and that is what is known as the difference. Headings like those I just read to you, monopolized the columns of the printed and electronic newspapers in recent years, the same time that the voices of the extremist antimony, who, with the inducement and the presence of many of the SYRIZA and ANEL strains, evoked threats and curses against all those who suffered to keep the country up. Let us think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Would the New Democracy Government ever dare to announce and bring to Parliament new tax increases for citizens and businesses? Would the Government of the New Democracy dare to announce and bring the House to a vote the taxation of undeclared rents, the great increases in VAT rates, the increase in the tax advance to 100% for businesses and professionals and, indeed, the taxation retroactively from the year 2014 on the profits of companies with a higher rate? Would the New Democracy Government ever dare to announce and bring to Parliament the abolition of agricultural oil, which is supposedly defending farmers and increasing the price of tickets in urban transport? What if we were to announce the reduction of all the state's benefits, first and foremost in heating oil? What if we were to scan pension provisions and what if we decided to amend the legislation with a risk that the prisons would be filled with petty people? The government would not dare to think about it, because the country would have been broken up is the answer. You would cry from morning to night for donors, analsexuals, sold germans who don't understand what the world is going through, who are happy with the expansion of the market and the economy, who are responsible for even the death of students who used bracelets to warm up. And now? What now, ladies and gentlemen? With what moral right and after what you have done in previous years, are you in Parliament and not only say 'yes' to everything, but are you defending them already? You will reply to me "with the right to give us the result of the elections" and you are partly right. Just now you say "yes" is an opportunity for two big apologies: The first for everything you did when you were opposition, when you first took the lead in every attempt to stand the country and the second because you deceived the world and after the "first time left", where the country was with primary surpluses and a step before the final release from the memoranda came the "second time left" to tax ruthlessly mobile and immovable property, just because someone has to pay the experiment of eight-month rule. Don't tell us we voted for them. These are proposals from the Tsipras - Kammenos Government. It's a national policy. There is nowhere in the Memorandum, because that is why, gentlemen of the Government. You continue to deceive citizens, such as the repatriated over-aged homosexuals for whom you promised to re-evaluate the retirement that had been abolished. You have voted for it and after the elections have passed today you are voting against it. You are clearing the arrangement for lower insurance contributions to new doctors, engineers, lawyers. You are clearing the arrangement for the 100 doses of Mrs Valavani. By the way, can you tell us which of the great ones benefited? Now you overthrow the planning of thousands of petty people who will lose and the regulation and risk being found in prison. By the way, have you explained to the world what that means in Article 1(4) that by voting tonight all pensioners in the early retirement process lose an additional 10%? Is that what Mr. Tsipras meant when he said about a parallel election programme? Did that make the Greek people understand that this is the parallel program? I have just received a memorandum from the Association of the Regions of Greece, which states that the EIA and its President, Thessaly, Mr Agorastos, are clearly in favour of the preventive control of the costs of the regions, and this is a permanent position of the EIA, but Article 10(24) is an unauthorised intervention in the first and second degrees of economics. I ask you: it is possible for thirty years for the Left to fight for the financial independence of the Ottas, the universities, etc. And it just became a government to legislate and take their money? There are limits, ladies and gentlemen. As the dear Minister for Health is here, to whom I wish an opportunity and a good success, I shall refer a little to health issues. Thank God Mr. Kurubley has changed his ministry. There is no greater shame - and I mean politically - than happened in the past eight months in the Ministry of Health. There is no ministerial decision, ladies and gentlemen, or a provision which it has voted on and which it has not withdrawn. He doesn't have a precedent! I shall mention a few examples. The prescription scheme added the trade name while it was only the active substance. He took it back. The law of choice of hospital governors took him back. Also, the "price" for cancer patients. He took it back. The abolition of the ETUC. He took it back. EUR 1 per recipe: He had announced the abolition, but maintained it. Minister, you are aware of the issue of MEDIA which is under dissolution. Shouldn't we do something? You'll talk anyway. I shall also refer to another subject, Mr Minister, concerning young doctors. Any doctor, ladies and gentlemen, has opened a doctor's office after 1-1-2012 established by the EEAY and the OPCW has been abolished cannot conclude a contract with the EEAY. Of course, on the other hand, we all cut ourselves off for the new minds, which are leaving abroad. And how can they stay? Three years now they cannot compete with other colleagues. Should we not give a solution to this, too? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, what about the vaccines? Official announcement of the IFO reports a shortage in Tetravac, Pentavac, in the Infanrix tetra until the end of 2015. We're talking about elementary programmes. We're not talking about luxuries now. As far as pharmaceutical expenditure is concerned, we have said so in committee the day before yesterday. Pharmaceutical expenditure has escaped because the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health would drive out the troika and in the first eight months we have exceeded over 250 million euros and pharmaceutical expenditure is closed down and specific: Two billion, in fact, 1,945,000,000. The Troika's retrospective demand leads to the pharmacy cost of ECU 2 billion, but mainly or solely with imported medicines. It is paradoxical when everyone in this Chamber and outside are talking about growth, we are talking about reducing unemployment, and at the same time we are going to legislate to close the third pillar of the country's development, which is the Greek pharmaceutical industry. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people pay dearly the things and the inconsistency of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. I hope the bill will stop here. I don't believe it. And you know that better than I do, that the government is forced to deal with the economic situation and find money, because the equivalents are now over. With the argument that we don't agree, but we're forced to do it, because it's the country's commitment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u218	You're welcome, Mr. Kelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u219	...you can't tell Greek citizens for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u220	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u221	The government's responsibility is high and it's entirely borne by you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u222	Thank you. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, your coup d'état, having the full support of the European Union, of the United States of America, of local and foreign capital, is being dismantled even further by measures of incoherent anti-popular intelligence that would envy them even by the original fervent supporters of capitalism. So, what do you want from her right when you have one on the left? The Left of the Second Opportunities, as a follow-up to the first, includes new massive rafts, privatisations, warm money, provocative exemptions and facilities for predators of pluralism, even for cases concerning the extradition of counterfeits and virtual invoices. The infamous conclusion of the Committee of Wise Men on Insurance is a real cause of war. Demolishes the labors of a lifetime, cancels every grid of workers' protection, provides for dramatic reductions in pensions, increases in age limits until your soul comes out, abolishing the heavy and unhealthy. In other words, at the heart of the rights of the working class, the right to pension, which will be determined on the basis of income criteria, with individual, mental accounts, without the actual deposit of their contributions being credited. The right to health, welfare, protection against occupational hazards, accidents and diseases, i.e. new theft of workers made with the blood and sweat of the working class, is being beaten. Ladies and gentlemen, the measures are not complete. And it's just the beginning. The beginnings of November are coming the next steps. This requires all sacrifices in support of capitalist development through the further crackdown of the people. It is a strategy that is implemented in all the Member States of the European Union on a single condition: capital depreciation and devaluation, a reduction in the value of the labour force. It is a one-way road to save the profits of pluralism and to expand even further. This strategy presupposes the people to the tartars. That is why all the efforts of your co-government, urban parties, the rest of the four parties that supported, voted for the measures in the previous term, the Association of Greek industrialists who support this effort are because you want to manipulate the people, because you want the workers divided, sketched and subordinate. That is why you serve the theory of social automation, penthouses and undergrounds, privileged and unprivileged, the less poor and the impoverished. With the main aim of preventing the class unity of workers, the reconstruction of the movement, the ripeness of the popular alliance in anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly course, the Prime Minister himself from the step of the Central Political Committee of SYRIZA called on the people to take active action in the process of implementing the new memorandum. That is to say, the people who are co-responsible for the measures, since they are supposed to have approved them by their vote. So, after removal from the shell, it's not wrongly recognized. You want, in other words, to swallow its justified indignation and not to think about expressing it with participation in struggles, claiming the recovery of losses and measures to relieve the working people's family. You're the first in this patronage. Who does not remember the famous "we've eaten together" of PASOK and Mr Pangalou? If you convince the people that he was involved in the food, how would he refuse to pay the bill after that? Isn't that right, Mr. Micholonnakis? He is not my co-rapporteur Mr Micheloannakis, who on local radio addressing the farmers of Crete, told them the following undocumented: "The world should not protest, since he voted for us and knew what we were voting on, what we would bring." "Monday..." he says, "...the other great "stick" begins, meaning the provisions for farmers. And Mr. Michelovanakis continues: “Okay, the world is protesting. I'm with him! But don't listen to "ma.....hey now!" This world didn't vote for us? Didn't we pass the memorandum and then she voted for us? In Heraklion, we were given a seat above. What am I supposed to do now? Do not vote?’ What did Mr. Micholonakis say? Everything you don't say, exactly the rest of us, Mr. Micheloganakis says. That is why the people must reject you. SYRIZA has wrought popular vote with many tricks by cultivating delusional and logically smaller evil and monologues, sharing callous promises to dismantle reactions and stir racing attitudes and manipulating popular forces in capital policy. And where these patrons don't work, you'll pull out the theory of the equivalents that will compensate, as you say, for the losses. Even if you find an equivalent measure against VAT, for example, in private education, such as this unacceptable measure to increase ticket prices for museums and archaeological sites - which the people again will pay for these increases - you actually enter social automation and facilitate strategic goals of the European Union, which are the business operation of museums and archaeological sites, their self-finance not only by carving visitors, but also by penetrating business groups in the protection, promotion and the exploitation of cultural heritage. The only equivalent measures for the benefit of the working class, the poor people's population, would be the taxation of profits of industrialists, shipowners, bankers and large-scale hoteliers at 45%. In poverty, unemployment, the abolition of rights, there is no soft application! That is why no worker should be fooled by the theory of equivalent and soft implementation. So the fraud of SYRIZA, his leadership and co-government, has no stopping. They share uncovered cheques to the people, promising redemption after the end of the crisis. That is why they draw the vision of the democratic path towards socialism and the fairy tale of anti-neoliberalism. Half the truth, they say, is a whole lie. Whether neoliberal or anti-neoliberal, memorial, anti-monstrate, economic policy is formulated on the basis of the priorities and needs of those who have the means of production, based on the requirements of industrialists, large-scale traders and shipowners. That is why the people, the workers, the poor populaces must reject the reheated food of these anti-neoliberal fronts. We say that why? Because you don't just defend capitalism, by banging it into the eyes of the people. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have the people themselves to defend the system that ends him, to cause him to resign even from the struggle to meet his needs pending in vain growth that will benefit him as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u224	Please conclude, Mr Co-chair, because my colleagues are protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u225	I shall conclude, Mr President. The development of SYRIZA and all parties serving the capitalist development path has a classic, antisocial person. You impose HISPIA on the tourist accommodations, while exempting the big-time owners, and even making an increase in the tax of up to 2,000%. Exempt business groups from remuneration fees and at the same time make complete "safari" in micro-magatators with hard fines, even by sealing the stores. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the working class, then, and the poor people's strata, there is a way, not to show any tolerance to the government and to the parties that are fighting it while they are strategically and organized to claim their right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u226	Please, Mr. Synatiakis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u227	This practically means that all the people must be on the road today in Omonia on 18:30; in the afternoon and on the 22nd and the strike on November 12.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u228	We got 'em on. Let anyone else speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u229	On this road the JRC enters, organizing the struggle of the people and preparing its counter-response.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u231	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u232	You're welcome, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u233	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u234	To what's the staff, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u235	Last night Mr Antoniadis referred to me and I would like to reply to him. He had arguments that don't stand and offend.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u236	I'd like to because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u237	For one and a half or two minutes. I've been waiting for Mr. Antoniadis since this morning. He's not here, he's not here, so I was expecting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u238	It is not right that this should be done in the absence of the other Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u239	I was absent yesterday, too. I've been waiting since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u240	I'll beg you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u241	I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u242	I would ask you in a minute to give your answer without provoking a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u243	No, I won't cause anything. One setup.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u244	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u245	Just a minute, a half and a half. Mr. Antoniadis is a member of the New Democracy in Florina. He said yesterday: 'Mr Balauras is gone'. I'm not saying he's gone, I'm waiting for him. "Who does he think Mr Balauras is when he chairs the hearings, does he not give the floor to the representatives of the Pambodian Federation, the largest federation in Greece, with three hundred and thirty unions and gives the floor to a representative of a competition committee? If he does not know, he should be informed, and if he wants to sit here, in the temple of democracy, to make proper use rather than misuse of his temporary authority." I would therefore like to say to Mr Antoniadis: Firstly, no one can appear as a protector of any union, small or large. One of the prisoners. Secondly, where I presided over there were requests from the different parties for some forty operators. I have called on the rapporteurs of the parties, as usual in the House, to sit together and choose the bodies. Indeed, the rapporteurs have brought to the secretariat of the House - I have not dealt with it at all - about twenty bodies, of which I have in turn spoken who will take the floor. So these bodies were not chosen by me. Thirdly and perhaps more importantly: I personally sent e-mail to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group where I requested, on the day before, the following. I read the e-mail: "Please allow entry to Mr. Tannimanides Stefano, representative of the World Pontidian Hellenism, Kalaitzidis Georgios, representative of the repatriates, Apostolidis Charalambos, representative of the Panhellenic Federation of Pontian Associations, to attend and speak in the work of the Committee" etc. So Mr. Antoniadis can't say that. One last thing: The SYRIZA Member, Alexandros Triantafylides, also made special reference and intervention in favour of the right - I repeat - for the protection of the pension received by the retired and unretired. They're absolutely right. In this way, however, what some appear to be patrons undermine the fair fight of these people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr Balaura. Mr. Tsiaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for those of us who have been serving this place for many years, this is unfortunately the feeling of a period of missed opportunities. And I say this, because at a very different time from the one we used to live in politics, but also in reality and life itself, with problems multiplely in the national economy, in the Greek state itself and with the needs that are multiplied for all Greek citizens, the average Greek citizen would expect an essentially different attitude from the entire Greek political system. Unfortunately, we repeat the well-known practice that comes from the past, a practice of seeking political prevalence without actually seeing either the problem or trying to resolve it. And I say this because, unfortunately, in a wrong way that - I will confess - was working in the previous period when our country was in this difficult budgetary situation, the government's practice with packages of measures that are not targeted and which are not part of a general strategic framework, I do not think it is coming in a second time to offer or help in a certain direction. The plan that we have been discussing these two days in the Greek Parliament is, on the one hand, a product of practices that had occasionally been hampered mainly by colleagues of the government. I would like to say in very simple terms that speed practices that were incomprehensible to some people are now fully accepted. In order not to remind you of the well-known words of the former President of the Greek Parliament, which said that democracy is not just falling on tanks, but also on legislative acts - and then you were all ever applauding - but much more through measures which create even greater difficulties for all Greek citizens. The major issue we are discussing and the pension scheme, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly not answered through the legislative initiative that we are discussing this weekend. I say this because we have not actually understood what the problem is and the insurance system on the one hand and the Greek economy on the other. It makes sense that the insurance system is falling apart. And there are many references, many demands from all the social groups, from all the insurance funds. But don't we see the obvious? We do not see that the insurance funds will certainly collapse in the near future, because there are not enough employers' contributions, in other words, there are no new jobs, unemployment is growing, there is no real growth? And how will there be real growth when we do not answer the question of how it is produced or what is the wealth in our country, how is wealth produced in Greece? The wealth in Greece, ladies and gentlemen - you may not like it, because you permanently invoke the well-known ideological reference - produced by entrepreneurship, produced only by the private sector. And if this is not cleared up as a rule of choice that will help us make good decisions in a timely manner so that the national economy can be cleaned up and stay alive, then I am very afraid that this constantly repeated reference to either left-hand payment, either left-hand or left-hand, will only create a greater deadlock in the national economy. If we do not support a specific framework, with rules - I am the first to support this - the entrepreneurship in Greece by creating - a more favourable tax framework and by motivating the average Greek businessman to survive, I am sorry to tell you from this step but in the immediate future what we are discussing today will obviously be empty content. There'll be no reason to even talk about it. In fact, through all the things that are being attempted, which - I repeat - do not fall within a general framework or a more general plan to address the problem of the national economy, what do you think you - and of course all of us here in this Chamber - in the middle of the Greek citizen when the decision of the Committee of Wise Men, or rather the prediction, is that after a while of the Minister responsible - said so - the drafting of the average Greek citizen will be EUR 360? What are you going to say to the average Greek citizen when the price of heating oil starts at 88 minutes, when, in general, the price of petrol and oil is at least 20% lower than last year? Of course, what will you say when you see that all that you have shown as the moral advantage of the Left is destroyed every day by behaviours by officials, people who may be in the government or have a leading role today on the Greek political scene? Ministers who forget to declare millions, ministers who forget to transfer shares. Is this where the other time is? Is this where the other policy lies? I am addressing this House not to make a cheap opposition, but above all to show that we must finally change our attitude. Greek citizens expect more of us. To hide behind a cheap rhetoric, which basically shows a more ideological reference and to show who won or lost with truths or lies in recent elections, will obviously not highlight the pedagogical role of the political system. I am one of those who say that the political system and parliamentarianism can only function pedagogically against Greek society. To repeat stereotypes or common words which simply characterise us in a report from the past, obviously does not help. On the other hand, to realise at this time that we must all get together on the same side and that we must fight for the good of our country, for the good of society, for tomorrow of the next generations, for recognition of the problem and for initiatives to be taken globally, is essentially the only way to achieve something. Otherwise, I repeat, both history and reality itself will record us at a time when we have not responded to either the role assigned to us by the citizens, nor much more have we met the obligation we have to ourselves, but much more to the future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr Chiara, and in particular the consistency of time. It's a qualification. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Prevezis Mr Konstantinos Barkas is requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u249	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, will we not stop now, in accordance with what we have said this morning, in order to move forward in the debate on the subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u251	We will proceed normally as decided this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the debate is adjourned at the outset of the bill. According to a unanimous decision of this House, which was taken this morning, the roll-call vote on the principle, which was tabled, will take place this evening together with the roll-call vote on the articles. We are therefore entering the debate on the articles. The procedure I propose is for the rapporteurs to speak, as provided for in the regulation, and for the special speakers. The remaining speakers will be followed by the first meeting, which will speak in principle and on the articles and follow those who are enrolled in the articles. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Papadopoulos, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, a clarification to this House. Does the list go on as it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u253	It's continuing, yes. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in Parliament has raised four major issues: Firstly, is it necessary to vote on the draft law? What will happen, gentlemen, to the New Democracy, to the PASOK - Democratic Reconciliation, to the Centron Union, if Parliament does not vote on the draft law? Second, can they change articles of the draft law? What and how? How do we demonstrate that we have listened carefully to the opinion of the bodies that have submitted their specific proposals to us here? Thirdly, is it a myth or a joke about equivalent compensatory measures? Fourthly, can there be a parallel socially sensitive programme leading to the country's definitive reconstruction, the data from the third Memorandum of Understanding and the current European reality? I do not see any of the JRC's partners, nor Thanasis who gave me the floor yesterday, considering that the common course we had since 1974 allowed us to have a more open dialogue with them. But I think, anyway, that the debate on the Communist Party of Greece is necessary. They believe, of course, that the adoption of the draft law is not only necessary, but they will strive together with the people's movement to overthrow the measures, the third Memorandum of Understanding and the whole of government policy, because they serve the interests of monopolies, big capital, the European Union, from which they think we should get out. They believe that in Greece the people will live better if they move away from the United Europe. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would like to remind them - and especially the friend, Thanasis Paphie - of Breech's historic phrase: 'What is the point of describing a situation that proves to be disgusting if we do not analyse the causes that have caused it and, above all, how we are going to get out of this terrible situation?' He may not be here, but we're waiting for an answer to this relentless question. Where are we going to drive if the SYRIZA government really falls, as they expect it to be as a result of popular mobilisation? What's the result? Will a people's authority arise? I think the answer is obvious. The alternative government solutions that exist in the present historical reality are a government with a trunk of SYRIZA or a government from the old, that is, a government of all who are responsible for why Greece has been driven to explosive deficits, overcompensation and then to memorial agreements, at 25% fall of the gross national product, in the closure of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, in recession, in nightmareous unemployment, in suicides, in the forced migration of its new human resources, in children with qualifications, without Greece making use of their studies, by the new doctors who the Germans recognize that it is the best human resources they have but to serve the health system of Germany. And they are forced to be able to work, to flee from Sweden and England, to Dubai and Australia, and Turkey to entice them with proposals, "Come here to us to serve the Turkish health system." So what led to the rocks? Mr. Samaras isn't here. Seven-month policy? It is not the result of a distorting, unregulated, capitalist development that the friends of the JRC would agree to in the country, a philosopher of political power, a neoliberal but also intertwined customer, corrupted policy, without personalising it. But the features of interlocutory and corruption are embodied. They are included in all those well-known and unknown scandals that are detected and with the responsibilities for the Post Bank of Greece, for the Agricultural Bank of Greece and many others that we talked about and, of course, the detection of what was all that staff who invested and joined the Lagard List and the other lists and how it escaped. The issue is that the new loan, which was dictated to the government of George Papandreou in 2010, was a loan of subjection to their demands, the impoverishment of the people, the undermining of the public and the private property of the Greeks. Mr. President, do we only have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u255	Unfortunately, this is the agreement and it cannot be done differently. It is eight minutes for the rapporteurs and special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u256	Yes, but it is not now possible to make a place on all the matter and on the issues of the principle that have been raised here and on the articles only in eight minutes. This also concerns the other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u257	We should go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u258	You're wasting your time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u259	Don't complain, ladies and gentlemen. This process has been selected...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u260	Because he's forced...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Papadopoulos, just a minute, please. This procedure has been chosen to speak as many Members as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u262	How can they talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u263	And it will be observed. With a small, minimal tolerance, but we're there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u264	Not a bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u265	And not at all, Mr. Kegeroglu, and I'll agree. Keep going, if you want. I'm only giving you two minutes because of all this interference. You have the floor. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u266	The opposition claims that the measures contained in the new agreement are ours. And they believe that this allows them not to vote on the agreement that has been made and there is all those issues that will be open for the course of the country's genuine negotiation throughout the next period, which is open to all open issues and which concern debt write-down, an issue that is crucial to Greece, is an issue for which you have proposed a national negotiating team, you are due to an answer. Do we now think that it is unsustainable to get into all the issues that will allow us to do restructuring and sustainable service? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm on my way. We are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, because the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, but also Mrs Christophilopoulou, have proposed that we have a specific debate on measures and not just a generalised debate: the challenge for us was open. It was open by the ministers who would make these amendments. It is open to many critical issues. We have heard the proposal from the five points put forward by the PASOK Parliamentary Group. The question is: We will conclude that over the rest of the time we will reject group redundancies, avoid hunger pensions and move towards a sustainable socio-security system by rejecting it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u267	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u268	I shall conclude, Mr President. I only focus on what is very specific. . the change of HICP to become a major property tax, the choice of a lower scale insurance for engineers, EAFRD lawyers, as well as for the insured of the OAU, the minimum guaranteed income for uninsured homosexuals, the transparency of the ‘from now on’, the ownership and radical reform of the tax system with stable, fair rules, the democratic reform of the public administration, the escalating taxation of rents and the regulation of uninsured bonds, the safeguarding of the independence of the management of LAGs and universities, the emblematic change in health that I do not analyse, since the Minister for Health is present to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u269	And the overtaxation of the farmers is in the five points you mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u270	Sure. However, the issue of dealing with the agricultural issue and rural development is an issue that does not concern this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u271	If you're kind enough, please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u272	I conclude by saying: I think we can also appeal to all those colleagues who think they are interested in the European perspective of the country and who will be that human potential that will ensure that the course in the United Europe has all the rules for Europe of the values that we have seen and not for this Europe which is a Europe of the priesthood, which has blackmailed with forty-eight people who need to get to this draft law. For our part, we believe that the Left is the difficult ones, as a colleague has said. The EAM saved the people from hunger, and the people trusted us again the regeneration of the country. Why? Because he knows that only in this way can we go to the productive, administrative, development reconstruction of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u273	Thank you Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, SYRIZA rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has been speaking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I do not think there is any benefit of the debate on the future of the country. General rule. Second, you're asking us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u275	Is EAM a civil war conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Colleague, you're probably asking...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u277	Are you saying it's a civil war conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u278	Yeah, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, We know history.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u279	Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u280	All right, after-mortem warfare. Anyway, they think it's civil. Secondly, you ask us what will happen if Parliament does not vote for these measures, if it did not vote, etc. You are obviously addressing the Members of the government majority. Are you addressing the MPs of the Opposition asking them what will happen if you do not vote on the government's bills? I didn't get it. In other words, in any parliamentary democracy - and in the Greek Parliament of course - the general rule is that the government's majority vote in favour of the bills that its government brings and the opposition vote against by controlling, criticising. This rule was followed by you to antenna, until millimetres when you were in the opposition and you said 'no' to anything we brought. We have a little derogated from this rule, and we have said that we will vote for something right. But we will certainly not vote for all the mistakes. And now you say to us, "But, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, why don't you vote on what the government brings?" Can't you see what happens to other opposition? Mitterrand had said that the government majority was voting and the opposition opposed. These are the rules in parliamentary democracies. How do we do it? Do you now want me to address you in the Step to how parliamentary democracies work? It doesn't fit, I think, at the moment. But that's the rules and they're the ones we're going to follow. That's where the people got us, and we're going to make an opposition. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u281	If the measures are neoliberal, why don't you vote for them too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u282	Leave that to you, Mr. Kegeroglu. I'm a little more general.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Kegeroglu, you'll have the floor to talk. Go on, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u284	I'm a more general parliamentarian. I now have an answer - I did not do so yesterday, not to abuse a right by taking the floor on staff - to Mr Tsakalotos, the Minister of Finance, who insists that I distort what the Prime Minister said. But, Minister, the Prime Minister said at the reading of the programme statements on "The return to positive growth for the Greek economy will be in the first half of 2016". That's what he said. You predicted a recession in the draft state budget. You predicted, of course, a slow recession. You said, that the economy will continue to be in recession, but milder than 2015. Because when 2015 you have -2.5% and forecast for 2016-1% or -1.5%, then you do have a milder recession, so the recession is slowing down. It remains, however, a recession. He's got a negative sign. Development has a positive mark. Garlic - onion. Let's talk about this, because they're incomprehensible to people outside the House who are watching us, but with interest, who, anyway, don't have the special knowledge to understand. From there on, however, linguistic and excessive use create confusion. So the Prime Minister should have said in word - and tell me if you agree, when you have the opportunity - that in 2016 we will also have a recession, a Greek people, but milder than in 2015. However, it should not have said that the economy would return to positive growth in the first half of 2016. That's for restoring economics. It's not an exact science, that's what they call it. But if we want to explain things to people, as I said, who have a problem of understanding, why knowledge and incomprehensible concepts are very specific, I think we should be applauded. Third point. Today the findings of the so-called Committee of Wise Men, appointed by the Minister of Labour, were announced. Here, really, there's a cosmogenicity. Things and miracles have been said. They're circulating as rumors now. There was talk of recalculating four million pensions, with the most likely result of reducing new taxes to support insurance, adjusting contributions, applying income criteria - it says - the payment of pensions, high contributions formula - low pensions. Things and miracles, literally. Yesterday, the Minister announced a reform of insurance in November. However, there are already measures in this bill that curb insurance rights. He spoke of a new architecture, about the general alternative, which is - he says - reform of the system, public redistributive character. I think we should start, without delay, a great public debate. Because you know, this reform, this weight, I think it goes beyond all the political forces in here. We need to see what happens. To start this debate, at the initiative of the Ministry of Labour, perhaps, in the committee responsible, perhaps in plenary. We must come to what exactly an insurance system we have to come up with. Will it be a redistributive character, like it was by now? Is it gonna be recapitalisation based on what you're bringing? Will it be mixed? Is it going to be disguised? Is it gonna be something else? But we have to come to an end. And we must conclude that if, at last, we do not link social security directly to employment, rather than talking all day about pensions that are falling, increasing, etc., we will not be able to find a solution. Direct link between insurance and employment. High employment, high revenues from contributions to the system. Low employment, high unemployment, of course, undermine the sustainability of insurance directly. To begin with, at last, with openness and understanding, this debate, because it goes beyond us all. On the articles, very comparable remarks. I told you I was waiting for the Ministers' contribution to be finalized. Apart from Mr Blonde, who has to believe in this, who has come and made friendly efforts to explain exactly what the provision he introduces about the price of medicines means and, of course, you, Mr Minister, which you are also the Minister for Finance, did not do so to the extent that we wanted. No adequate explanations were given. In Article 1, 'Restriction of insurance rights', we will say 'no'. Although some provisions have been withdrawn in Article 2, however, the ENPI remains in the rentals. We have said that we cannot accept that. It is both material and unfair because small and medium-sized business is affected in tourism. We are therefore saying 'no'. In Article 3, ‘to amend provisions, tax procedure code, abolition of fines’, etc. We are saying 'no'. Article 4, amendment of CEDEFOP provisions, we are voting on it. In Article 5, we say a great 'no' in terms of the 100 doses and the tightening up of the framework. Article 6 on the extension of the transitional arrangements, etc. We're voting on it. It's minor. In Article 7 on the violation of Code of Books and Elements with fine reductions, we are negative and we say 'no'. In Article 8 to tighten up a criminal evasion framework, basic principles of criminal law are overthrown. It's a pity the Minister of Justice has left. Is there a Legislative Committee of the Ministry of Justice, which looks at exactly these things and comes and legislates the Ministry of Finance on criminal tax law, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, where a committee has been set up with ministerial decision since the summer? Excuse me, we can't accept that. So we say 'no'. Article 9 is the regulatory framework for brewing. We were expecting Mr. Apostleu to tell us exactly what he means. For both Article 9 and the other articles on the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, that is to say, Article 19 on winemaking and Article 20 on winemaking, these arrangements are referred to in a ministerial decision. So it did not bother coming to tell us about what it consists of, the general framework of this ministerial decision. What can we vote for? That he's coming to make a ministerial decision to regulate? It's vague. And can I tell you something? It is an inappropriate attitude to Parliament and to us that we have honoured, in any case, this duty to come and to inform and give explanations and answers to everything. So in Articles 9, 19 and 20 we say 'no'. Article 10, where it is the abolition of preventive control by the Court of Auditors because the institutions want to speed up the process, cannot support it. We have already legislated to increase the limit for preventive control from EUR 15 000 to EUR 30 000. We believe that this meets this need to speed up the simple cases at least. So we say 'no'. Article 11, like Article 12, will support it. We are saying 'yes'. In Article 13, the fees are the fees to some natural legal persons from the GOI. There, because the local authorities are deprived of claiming not only final validation of resources, we are negative. Article 14 provides for the abolition of the possibility of a special account to cover deficits of the social security institutions and thus the repayment of these amounts to the AACC. That is what we have been saying for so long, and we therefore support it, 'yes'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Not a minute, Mr President. Thank you for the tolerance, because I think very much we're telling you what we're going to do. Article 15 provides for the reduction of drug prices. This is where we propose the blow that will be suffered by the home pharmaceutical industry. There is already a predetermined cut in pharmaceutical expenditure per year at two billion. We believe that no further measures are needed by the Italian originator of the institutions that are negotiating with you. We also believe that this measure will result in the damage to the domestic pharmaceutical industry and the increase in expensive imported medicines, which will not lead to a more general reduction and we are therefore negative. We shall vote on Article 16 on the liberalisation of the gas market. In Article 17, we cannot support the issues of exemption, deletion of debts from the TRAINOSE to the OSE, from OSE to the Greek State and the premium of 50 million for the next six years of the OSE. I did an exercise with my mind. I imagined what would happen if you were opposition and we brought this in. And I wondered if we would prescribe the 'TRAINOSE' - which will be privatized, in other words - with 50 million for next year, how about you for a present to the next investor and scandal? We are therefore saying 'no'. In Article 18 for the restructuring of the OSCE. Here is a plan prepared by the administration. I hear that today the CEO resigns because he dared to say something about sanctions for those who do not pay a ticket. Mr. Spirtz didn't accept that. Mr Spirtzis, who makes social policy, giving tickets for a period of time and fessing this Agency with 10 million, for which the CEO will answer, not Mr Spirtzis. This restructuring plan is inconsistent with the proposal you are tabling here now. It is approved by the UN, by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy responsible for European transfers of the UN and comes and overthrows this ministry and says: 'My plan, where I appoint three Presidents, for subsidiaries, and not three CEOs under one President', so administrative chaos, but the opportunity to appoint friends. And now we have to support it. Not in Article 18, therefore, not in Mr Spirtzi's policy, which, as I have said, can make social policy from his Ministry, but the company is responsible for the festive and restructuring and in the background, of course, we have an increase in tickets in return for this social policy. In Article 19 we talked about winemaking and winemaking. A large, not the largest, in Article 21 ‘Removing favourable provisions of Law4330/2015 for EFF insured persons, uninsured over-ages’ and, of course, ‘the police, fire and port relief funds’. Here, tell them, where you negotiate, that the self-employed have been integrated and regulated, that they have been charged and paid contributions by the self-employed. What about the others, the uninsured overages? In any case, he'll be back as a forum again anyway. Tell them that. You can't be exposed like that. And as for the three police, fire and port funds, here you changed the rules of the game in the middle of the game or rather before the deadline expires, so that they can take action and set up their own fund and blow them up all the plans. For people who guard Thermopylae in the Aegean Sea, in the fires in the forests and in the streets against worsening conditions, we think that this treatment is not worthwhile. This is our position, ladies and gentlemen, in articles one by one. We expect the roll-call vote to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u286	Thank you Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Before giving the floor to the next special speaker of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u287	I would like the good colleague of the New Democracy to take back what he said about the report by the EAW that it is a civil war.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u288	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u289	If I am not mistaken, Mr Colleague, in 1981 the PASOK brought the recognition of the National Resistance and thus of the EAM. Thirty-five years later we hoped that the New Democracy is not the New Democracy of the '50s and '60s and '70s, but it's a New Democracy looking ahead to the 21st century. I think you have the opportunity to fix this, because it was very heavy what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Panayotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u292	I have no objection to taking it back if it is historically inaccurate. But you know, every reference to history and, in times of Greek history, very painful, it's pastology. It's not a reference to the next day. We are here to organise the next day of the country and not, in order to do so, to look at periods that really cost the country over a period of time. In that sense, I said it, and no one else. I think that's good to be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u294	Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative for Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u295	Evidently, Minister, the reference to the EAW has no civil-war trait. Anyone who knows history knows that. The creation of the NCA has nothing to do with the civil war. That's obvious. The argument is correct. However, Mr Papadopoulos, as rapporteur for the majority, you also made a mistake. You have liked this draft law and the general effort that is being done on your part today as an effort that corresponds to history has been made with EAM. Unlucky to try to match. Don't you both leave it with EAM? I think you will do both in the history of Greece and in the EAM, both of them and each of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u297	I think it's closing the deal. Mr. Tsakalotos raised the matter, Mr. Panagiotopoulos explained, and Mr. Loverdos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u298	The reference to historical attempts to tackle hunger has a timelessness. On the question that the circumstances were different then, and really different, it is now that we do not ignore the fact that our ability to deal with the major problems that the people have led us to a government like today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u299	Good, Mr. Papadopoulos. Now is the reason for the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u300	The multi-legislative plan with the prerequisites of the Memorandum of Left is an anti-constitutional abortion, which is brutally affecting our country's national sovereignty and is being punished against the Greek people, which has been subjected for five consecutive years to heavy sacrifices, which do not have the slightest positive impact. Five consecutive years, you Memorandums claim you are saving Greece. For five years, however, all you have been saving is the profits of your bosses, the profits of our compatriots. Over ten thousand suicides and much more deaths than the collapse of the social state and miserable health services. Acquisition of medium and low incomes, equilibrium of the Greek economy, sale of public property and our national wealth. This was the work of the PASOK and New Democracy Government, and this is today the work of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. All of you responsible for the misfortune of our people, clothed with the cloak of the supposed defender of the Greek Constitution, became their true mortals. You speak, shedding crocodile tears for democracy, you who imposed the republic on Greece. You are talking about freedom for you who have slowly and methodically built the inhumane slavery of interest. We do not, of course, expect to make you'red' out of shame in front of the hurricane crimes which you have committed at the expense of the country and the people. We are not addressing you, we are addressing the Greeks and Greek women, who have to deal with a cruel and impeccable survival struggle every day, because we are not like you who represent the blind, we nationalists know that there are millions of our compatriots who live in bad conditions, unable to ensure even the absolutely necessary for their children and for them. They defend the Golden Dawn for them, fighting against any honor. In this light, the multi-brand plan under discussion is judged by us nationalists as an anti-constitutional, anti-national, anti-lingual. It is a bill which does not serve the interests of the country and the people at all. And not only that, but it does not offer anything about the well-being and propaganda of our people, and it also makes a decisive contribution to the eradication of every prospect of prosperity and prosperity in this place. Without all of you having experienced the democratic arc or a second from the daily anguish of the Greeks, you come with a characteristic ease to impose on him measures that lead to mathematical accuracy in extinction. So don't come here in the style of King Cyla, to convince you about the need to implement a bloody memorandum, which is made by foreigners. You have the requirement of new sacrifices by the Greeks when in your party funds and in your personal accounts money flows abundantly. Is that black money? We do not know that. Possibly. We do not remember, after all, whether and when the ILO checked you. Prove us, then, also the custodians of legality that we are wrong. Open up your party funds to the relevant audit services. You forget to declare 1 million euros in the tax office when there are Greek citizens looking for 1 euro to get bread for their children! Every article in this obscure bill is proof of a truth that conceals the media that you control. You are not a sovereign government, you are an executive committee of a shameful and vulgar protector. Every article in this bill reveals hatred against the Greeks, whether they are employees or retired or self-employed or farmers. For the millions of unemployed, of course, no reason. You do not recognise the minimum right to them, which is simply acknowledging not only but also giving the last illegal immigrant, the one we are talking about at the moment invading our country. It is worth standing in your furious intention to "disappear" the freelance professional, depriving him even of the right to draw up debts of more than 20,000 euros. He is not even allowed to be offset by pension - debt, because your humanism is selective and your sensitivity is exhausted to illegal immigrants. Remove provisions such as that of debt relief by adjusting the hundreds of instalments by requiring lenders. You sell public property and additionally relieve those who buy it at degrading prices. Reductions are made from 1.5% to 5% in special wages, including doctors of the ESS, as well as those of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies. You are intoxicating the abolition of healthy funds, such as the ASEAP-ASA Assistance Insurance Fund, of Greek Police officials who are integrated into the EIB to cover black holes. But the black holes you're trying to cover are not covered and all you manage is to destroy healthy funds. You are even harder on ENPIA, the abolition of which you had made a flag in the January 2015 elections and while - worse - you impose a tax on undeclared rents, at the same time you leave to the unprecedented fraudsters of the Lagard list, the Luxembourg list, the London property list, and those who are involved in corruption scandals that you do not dare touch. And why don't you dare touch them? The current President of the Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, had revealed this at a conference in Halkidiki which concerned local government. Mr Voutsis said at that time: 'We are not opening the corruption scandals, because the only one won by such action will be Golden Dawn'. The People's Association - Golden Dawn is voting against all the articles of this multi-brand plan, declaring to the highest tone how if Greece needs a memorandum to be saved, then this memorandum should not be applied to the Greek people, but to the parties of the climax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u301	Thank you for the special speaker of the Golden Dawn Mr Evangelos Karakostas. The floor has been asked by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u302	In order to avoid any misunderstanding and probably the bill has not been read properly, there is no provision in the bill that increases the burden from HNVIA by one minute. As of the date of the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the application of this Others are the provisions that we can agree on or disagree. As far as the issue of the lists of tax evasion cases is concerned, I mean 'i' - I think that the government's programme statements clearly stated that there is no way, not only to leave it behind or not to be exploited, but first of all we will check, because there is no way, when we impose difficult measures, that we leave these things aside.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Deputy Minister Alexiadis. We move on to the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by repeating what I said yesterday and why we will not vote on the provisions that add new tax burdens to citizens, the provisions that reduce pensions, which burden the conditions of insurance, and the necessary years, and on the penalties for early retirement, as well as those relating to the release of positive, favourable regulations for citizens, taxpayers and freelance professionals. We will not vote for these provisions because we believe - and I would like to repeat this once again - that this three-year roaming of the country in which the Government of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos put us with this third, a happier memorandum was not necessary for the country. We have said that it was not necessary for the country, because it was possible for the SYRIZA Government to have made other choices and to use the positives created by the people for a period of five years, namely that we reduced the deficit that in 2009 was 15 billion and zero and led to primary surpluses, that we started to leave the recession that existed in our country since 2008 and at the end of 2014 it seemed that growth, as anticipated by international organisations, is coming, and that we had recapitalised the banks - the crack test that had been ahead of it - and we also had at the end and the 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund, with which we said we could go to the prudential credit line and get out on the markets, taking the rest of the instalment of the previous programme and thus Greece would become a normal country in 2015. That's all SYRIZA destroyed, so we're not the ones who have a change of attitude and line. We're consistent. We had to vote on the agreement on 14 August, because the country was going bankrupt on the other day, and we made it that day - and since then we have said it constantly, we have also said it in the election campaign - that these measures are the identity of SYRIZA - ANEL. So we have nothing to do with it. So they are fully responsible. So don't challenge us again by saying 'vote' here, because if we didn't vote, we wouldn't have covered the gap that you have left by losing the majority. This was a result of the policy you had followed in previous years, of the contradictions and falsehoods that SYRIZA and part of the Group's parliamentary group were committed to, so that today the country was not in what third-world situation. So, our responsibility, which we took on at that time, will not allow you to reverse it and bring it back to us again, on the basis of what you say today, that 'before you voted, why are you not voting?' Therefore, on the basis of these issues, which concern pensions, Article 2 which is tax, Article 5 which is the hundreds of doses and Article 21, which abolishes regulations that have already existed, we will not just vote on them, but we will also put them in a roll-call vote. I say telegraphics: First, with pensions we have been charging for years, we are changing the so-called 'founded', as was contained in the 2010 Loverdos - Koutromanis reform. We disproportionately burden the insured. We welcome the so-called 'ripes'. There are constitutional issues. With taxation we create a new burden. Don't say it again, Mr. Deputy, because the law on the discharge of the tenants has been the law of the State and would have been in force since this year. We fought her and you get her back. You are abolishing the possibility of dividing undeclared rents. So they'll pay tax, so there's an extra tax burden. Finally tell the truth! It's not bad. You take responsibility. Tell the truth! The bill that we are voting on in Article 2 has additional tax burdens, as is the case with Article 5, which abolishes the part of the hundred instalments that had the low interest rate and collects the instalments such as those that had regulated taxpayers and enables the taxpayer to reduce them. Rule 21 is clearing up. Because here I am saying - I am going out of SYRIZA - that I am slapping memoirs, I am giving a third pension, 12 000 tax, etc. - we went to the vote - I'm voting. And then we were right to vote, because - I repeat - we fought for it three years and beyond the partners, we also had the partners, in order to get together in these matters, and sometimes we could not coordinate in the best way. So we voted for these and what did we give them? The possibility for freelance professionals, doctors, engineers, lawyers, to choose a lower class, so that they don't leave the profession. And we were told here by the representatives of their institutions and also by the President of the Fund that this regulation has been passed. So we can't destroy them now. It was also the opportunity that we gave the uniforms, namely police officers, porters, firefighters, to testify to their subsidiary, professional funds, where while people entered the process, they have paid studies, they have submitted them, you get it back. They will be raised in constitutional terms, because you are abolishing the deadline. And, of course, you are also abolishing the provision on the basis of which the possibility of increasing the debt limit by offsetting the future pension for freelance professionals was allowed. I mean, he couldn't retire, he made the application, the Agency would agree to his old debts, and he would take the rest. Now, in addition to destroying them, in our view there is a legal vacuum and I want you to see it, Mr Ministers. Because by abolishing the military arrangement, I think you are also abolishing the previous one with the lowest amount of the arrangement. So it's empty. Tell us. I'm just making a legal question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the government to answer. Tell us. My assessment is that the way Article 21 is written in paragraph or abolishes the old provision. I come to the rest of the tax issues. It's the Minister here. Mr Minister, we have begun with goodwill for Article 3, which refers to the rationalisation of fines. Mr Alexiadis gave us a painting here, just like we asked. There is indeed a reduction in penalties and fines. However, be careful, remove fines in Article 3(5)b in the non-issuance of item. I don't know if you realize that, because some of us - we couldn't make your career abroad - Mr. Minister, you don't have a knowledge of Greek reality. For example, in the focus, in other entertainment centres and so on, there is the habit of not issuing proof. In the face of this, then, there was the fear of the fine in the non-issuance. Too much? Dragon? Let's straighten him up, pick him up. He'd already gathered a lot. You're the ones who do it. And Mr. Theocharis also told you the example of the doctor, who, because he has no VAT, will have no effect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So do you want to abolish this and do you not think of what impact it will have on revenue? You will apologise for the revenues. And I have to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that on the basis of the paper produced by the Ministry of Finance, we are squandering revenues in the nine-month, most important, about 4 billion dollars, and it does not seem, because there is a hold of payments. But that cannot go until the end of the year. You think about it? We are very sceptical. We were in the mood to vote on it, give us an explanation. As we wanted to vote on Article 7, but we have seen that 'brokenness' may be a misunderstanding. Because, yes, we are not opposed to those who cannot pay, to be able to pay. But just think, is there a need? Should we set some criteria in this process of "brokenness"? Also, Minister, because you have a history in Parliament, you have been rapporteur - I mean the opposition - of n. 4270, who was voted here in 2014, and then conquered all of us who voted for him. What you said about how we abolish democracy, limit rights and so on, is not described. I am pleased that you are accepting this philosophy of the draft law on the principles of financial management and you are bringing it here and you are proposing it with the explanatory statement as Minister. It's a turn. We salute her. But look, in this article, you've put the paragraph on the treasure bill. It's not just the constitutional versions that Mr. Loverdos put forward and which have not been answered, it's the substance. We cannot trust you when you have gathered the reserves of all legal persons at the moment, and it is not certain when they will be returned and neither of the legal persons, whether they be self-government or other public bodies, to make planning. Also, with regard to Article 13 on local government compensation, Mr Kourublis, which refers to the second and not to the first paragraph which exempts them, made a legislative improvement. And I am surprised that Mr. Kourublis has not come - while we have called him, like Mr. Loverdes - to explain to us whom you are giving and why, what purpose you serve. Also, two words on Article 15 concerning the medicine. The dialogue between Mr Loverdou and Mr Xanthos was interesting yesterday. With modesty - I believe - and with arguments Mr Blonde has attempted to justify the regulation and he said 'we will manage the crisis'. So he admits there's going to be a crisis. So you haven't convinced us, and that's why we're negative. Finally, I would like to say two words about gas. As a follow-up to the liberalisation regulation, there is a need for further improvement, because there will be no liberation if the investments that have been made throughout this period cannot be exploited and if we do not deviate and the increase of the EUR 4 per megawatt, which is particularly burdensome for the industries, is not enough. As far as the restructuring of the OSCE is concerned, we were prepared to vote on it. The plan that has been submitted is what has been worked out by the previous government. Let Mr. Spirtz say what he says here, taking down the previous ones. In fact, previous administrations and Mr Chrysochidis have succeeded in not having redundancies, reducing the ticket and entering a series. So this plan would be voted on. But be careful! You have the means to stop the provision of transport to the untreated, the disciples, the people who need it, the unemployed. If the Department doesn't pay, what's going to happen? At the moment, then, the Ministry of Labour has not paid. Aren't the LAPDs gonna get the cards? We need an answer. Otherwise, we cannot vote for it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] We are also in the mood to vote on Articles 19 and 20 which refer to the Ministry of Rural Development. But, ladies and gentlemen, no one was here to explain to us what is going on in this area. For Articles 19 and 20 refer to the Ministry of Rural Development. Of course, with regard to Article 21, I told you that it has all the things that are being abolished and for which we have expressed our disagreement. With this, Mr President - and thank you for the tolerance - I have tried to get into the articles. And we will vote against what is the major political ones, but we are also in a position to contribute to the rest. And as for what I have raised with regard to tax evasion, Minister, after consulting your Deputy, in particular with regard to Articles 3 and 7, I tell you very well and in order not to find any problems before us that we want some clarification to shape our final position. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u305	Thank you for the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Giannis Koutsoukos. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Evia Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for eight minutes is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. We would suggest that the SYRIZA rapporteur be a little more careful. It does not need to be so exposed to this excess political courage that it has shown in its position beforehand. Let's see what he asked for from the JRC. He asked us to stop the struggles, stop the mobilizations, stop criticising the government. To bow to the government in the name of not coming, because the JRC is supposed to have no alternative. So the people must choose between the Dog and Harybden. But you don't innovate. You're not saying anything new. That's what we were told in the past. PASOK told us when he was almighty then. And, of course, I would say that you are learning very quickly from this PASOK propaganda, confirming once again that SYRIZA is the old not only in propaganda, but also in political practice. Because when exactly are the games being framed? We saw that too! SYRIZA, the party "the first time left" to incriminate the struggles, in the name of not coming! If you think that with such slanders and such behaviour you will prevent us, you are deeply laughed, as you are, and unscrupulous, because you are acting - not only by SYRIZA, but also by other parties - the honorers of the struggles of the people, the EAM movement, when you are offering land and water to monopolies, capital and imperialists. If you think this was the action of the NAM, and today you copy it, you're deeply mistaken. Move exactly in the opposite direction. You are on the opposite side of what EAM has done in its time - and of course the JRC is proud of the action of EAM at that time - because you are the government of capital. You are in every way satisfied with the needs of the monopolistic groups, as these needs are reflected in this plan as well. You accepted the two previous memorials and their implementing laws and you come upon this anti-grass building, into this barbarity of the capitalist system and bring the third memorandum and new burdens for the working class and the wide popular strata. Mr Tsakalotos promised with his speech yesterday that "when we apply our own development model, the problems of the people will be solved", that is, "living for me May to have a triple!". In other words, promise that the people will be patient by Monday's presence in order to find relief, because the development model you will bring, Mr Tsakalotes, is such a model, which requires the working middle ages, the cheap labour force, the demolition of a number of rights to social issues, health, education and welfare, in the name of the armoring of competitiveness and the profitability of monopolistic groups. In this respect, therefore, it is clear that your development model does not differ in substance and as a result, as a result, as a result, to the Greek people from the model that New Democracy and PASOK had. Where you differ is in which part of the chapter you will strengthen more or less, what priorities you will give and support with your policy and how you will do this and how much more effective you will be in being able to accept this policy. In this respect, therefore, the debate confirms the JRC's assessment of the bill and the issues relating to insurance. For example, the conclusion of the Committee on Sages which was made public yesterday is precisely this monument to barbaric class politics. What the New Democracy and the PASOK have not been able to finish in the insurance system, you come and complete it. You are doing this with the proposals contained in this bill, because you are turning social security into individual responsibility and disconnecting the insurance system from work, from work to work. So, what are you doing? On the substance, you accept the permanent strategic choice of the bourgeoisie, not only in our country but everywhere, to 'root' any social right. The insurance was a "snitch in the eye" of the employer, for that very reason and over time, not only at the time of the crisis and the memoranda, but from the mid-90s, when the association of forces changed, the insurance starts and the place of social security comes and introduces the known "three-axle" system, so that the state guarantees only the preferential pension from there and beyond, either with the professional funds, or with private insurance, to privatise insurance. You have reduced, and in some cases to a very large extent, employers' contributions. You stole the insurance funds and their reserves. Today, in the face of this situation that has emerged in the name of service and armoring the competitiveness and profitability of capital, you are coming to give the final blow to insurance. That's exactly what you're trying to do. So on this issue, whatever stone you can raise - as our people say - you will see under the interests of monopolistic groups, competitiveness and profitability. And here you are raising the retirement thresholds up to seventeen years, reducing the earnings, beginning the fall of the heavy and unhealthy. The non-financing of the subsidiary insurance funds leads to a further reduction in supplementary pensions. You are arriving at the point where you are abolishing the pre-pension pension for insecure uninsured. You even reached the point where these measures, which were'resolved to the sick', and which were given by your own government, the previous government, for the new engineers and the new lawyers, who gave them the possibility of having a temporary payment of reduced contributions, and these are to be brought to the attention of you - and you are even returning to the pretext - with the result not only of paying increased insurance contributions for the second half of 2015, but also of imposing the dispute retroactively on them for the first half of 2015. In other words, in this way you are giving another, bigger hit to young engineers, to young lawyers. Or you do the same for the Armed Forces, for example, with the particular provision that you raise the retirement thresholds there too, accepting the Lovertou Act. We talked about tax evasion yesterday, Minister. You have confirmed that you cannot deal with tax evasion and tax evasion of monopolistic groups. You said that there is not only the people and the monopolist groups, but there are also intermediate strata. And you brought a simple example. Well, this simple example of dealing with it. We don't say no. To deal with it, to deal with, that is, with all those who do tax and manage it. But in the name of these examples you are creating such a climate and such an environment of social automation and, in essence, the theoretical ground to unfold an attack on those who have an income elementary in today's conditions, to bear the burdens of the tax attack. Once you cannot tax wealth, you cannot have reduced tax revenues, you will launch the attack on those who have some elementary revenue in the next period. As far as Article 13 is concerned, we call on you to withdraw it, Minister. It is the well-known article, with the exception of fees for undertakings operating at airports, ports and other areas granted by the State. Furthermore, this policy, which essentially serves the interests of the large capital, is also reflected in the issues relating to the privatization of the 'TRAINOSE'. Exempt from the debts, transfer them to OSE and the public by extension, so that TRAINOSE can be privatised. The restructuring of the OSCE, the urban transport of Athens, is based on the same criteria. It is done at the expense of OSCE workers, by intensified work, by overturning working relations by the method of evaluation, at the expense of the popular layers, with increased computers. And, of course, it is a pretext that you have secured the free ticket for the unemployed since this fund is not recorded in the State funding of the Ministry of Labour, so that all this can be sought and made possible in order to withdraw this whole process in practice. And, of course, the OSCE restructuring plan opens the window to the logic of fleet renewal, which is really in favour of using the method of partnerships, i.e. entering business groups within the OSCE, in the name of fleet change and renewal. And as far as the medicine is concerned, because there's been a lot of talk here, you didn't get the pain of having a cheap medicine for popular mattresses. It is just as much that your policy increases the cost of private expenditure on the medicine. Over the past five years, while public expenditure on the medicine has fallen by 57%, private expenditure has increased by 43%. And at a time when there is the closed envelope for the EEA, in EUR 1.9 billion by 2018, you understand very well that there are vaccines that have previously been included and the expensive drugs that will be released, or some drugs that will be taken off the list and will supplement the negative list with which the insured 100% is charged. So you will pass on this reduction to the worker. On the other hand, you have given land and water to the pharmaceutical industries. "We will support you in every way whether this is tax measures or new incentives, new subsidies, new activities, so that you can maintain and increase your profitability." So your point is not that the world has a cheap medicine, that the people should have a cheap medicine and not put their hand deeply in the pocket to pay expensively, but that exactly how the worker will pay much more for his medical care. In this respect, therefore, it is clear that the JRC cannot vote for any of the articles in the plan and will vote against it. In fact, for some of them, the most unfair, the most unpopular, the most barbaric and the most classic, we have already tabled a proposal for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much Mr. Karathanasopoulos, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. The special speaker from Potami, Mr Theocharis Theocharis, has the floor. Mr. Theochari, you have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Papadopoulos. He told us the same thing again. For the sake of the government, the fear of the 'left parenthesis'. Don't worry. You win. Just now, the elections took place in September. Why so much fear and debate on 'left parenthesis'? You win. I'm fine. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, That's what we're telling you. Go, go, go, go, go, go! You are not 'left parentheses'. You are, of course, becoming "neo-liberal" marvelous with what you are voting on. That's what you will be. There are several liberals in our country who have failed to achieve what you have achieved in so short a time. That's true. But, "left parentheses" you are not. No, don't worry. You can now really do the enlargement of the SYRIZA and to the neoliberal wing. You've lost your left, you can widen that way. You are actually passing through the measures that no one has been able to pass, because you are the MATs of the political system. No one dares to move you. They're going through measures, opening stores, coming on Sundays, etc. They broke the marbles in the Constitution while you were opposition. Now you'll have a good time. This may be your historic role, and that is why the Greek people have chosen you. You also talk to us about fake dilemmas. Mr Papadopoulos told us, "Government with body SYRIZA or government from the past?" Maybe someone should tell you a secret. The SYRIZA government is one of the old. There's no difference. You have no difference from previous governments. I don't know if you know. You did, of course, make it unthinkable to vote with false paganism in July in favour of the poor, the weak, in favour of pensioners in order to keep them three, four months, even. To spend a month of the election and to withdraw it now. This is, if necessary, the only achievement. Let's talk a little bit about the insurance, to understand the lies and the mockery that SYRIZA has made to the Greek people. Mr. Katrugalos chose a Committee of Wise Men, which came up with a conclusion. Perhaps you should be careful of what'soft' you put on these committees. He made 30 pages of a finding if I'm not mistaken. In fact, the Annex follows our proposal to finance insurance for moving to a beverage-based system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u309	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u310	So the Committee of Wise Men came out and forgot about the PSI. He said all the reasons for the collapse of the insurance system and he didn't find a word about the PSI, which you're saying is the cause of the breach of the insurance system. All it takes is for you to read this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, just like the Greek people to understand what you're lying to. You told us the PSI destroyed the insurance funds. And they haven't found two words to tell about this self-proof truth that you've been roaming so long since 2012 that the PSI happened. As far as the Committee on Wise Men is concerned, I would say to you this: Or choose the Committee on Wise Men better next time so that it does not undone or control you. Tell them what to write at last, because they won't be so wise!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u311	...the reserves of the insurance funds and the bonds of the Greek State the other day "weared". And he knew it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u312	Let's not have a dialogue, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u313	Of course they're 'tired'. But also to talk about funding from the budget for the insurance funds. Such funding is no place in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing these measures and telling us that you do not like them. But Mr Famelos said three days ago that, according to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, these measures are not hard. It's not tough! Greek people, the measures that SYRIZA brings you, according to his parliamentary group, are not hard! These are the measures you need1 So say it. Why don't you tell the Greek people? Tell him you don't believe this is hard. Can I tell you something? I agree. It's not hard. Because the measures you will bring to the next bills will be so hard that they will be 'butter'. "Butter" will be the cutting of all these insurance rights and all these changes that you bring. So bring these measures now and soon you will bring us the next measures written in the memorandum, the second prerequisites and whatever is needed. These are known because they are written in the memorandum. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen: the Greek people must know that you will bring more measures, not yet known. You should probably bring them in with the 2016 budget, certainly with the medium-term budgets of three years. So we are also waiting for further measures, because, for example, the revenues are falling apart. Five billion. The announcement from the Ministry of Finance came out yesterday. I spoke yesterday about EUR 3.4 billion reduced revenues for the previous months and yesterday, and there is more than half a billion euros of collapse. A total of EUR 5 billion is reached. And you are so back with the young, the revised objectives of the preliminary draft budget, not the objectives of the previous government budget, the New Democracy and the PASOKs. So you will bring in new measures, because you have no management capacity. No management skills! You wouldn't be able to pass any practicability tests. Bring here with this bill - that's not hard! - I've never known things. There are articles that create inequality - I spoke about the differences concerning the EFF and the OAU - articles that rack rights, articles that favour tax evasion. However, if the Minister does not say that we do not make proposals, in the VAT which I have told you that you are wrong with the evidence, we propose something else: put a small, self-interested fine, such as EUR 50 or 100 per proof, with a limit of EUR 1 000, or EUR 2 000 or 2 000 again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] That means that the auditor will be able to do his job very quickly. Now the auditor has to go in, see that the evidence has not been cut off at this table, to see what's on the table, to check and consider whether the two bottles of beer are gone and now he sees two, but it was four, to get the price list to see the prices, to sum them up, to get the new fine that is 50% on the missing VAT. We'll catch the tax evasion if the controller enters a store, ends in twenty minutes and leaves to go to the next one. So he'll go into more stores and make his job more efficient. So get in there. To enter and say, "There are five proofs missing, five times 50, a total of 250". He's signing it. It also makes a very rapid assessment of the level of tax evasion, so that it passes into the information system, the risk analysis, and so the next day or the next cycle of control, is taken into account with the risk analysis criteria and the control to come. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't need much time, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. So we suggest there that you do something different, which will be really effective. We propose, as far as the limitations are concerned, that you give some transitional provision even the work done so far or that is in the courts not to fall because of limitations. Give it a concrete solution. As far as over-taxation is concerned. Watch out, the one who invokes the invoice is the one who puts it as an exit. He must be punished. The one who lowers the invoice is the one who puts it as an income. He must be punished again. Both are offenses but on the different side of the table. Keep them as offenses and focus on where someone will benefit. And it's not just tax benefits. Overestimates are used in European funds and in the NSRF. That is to say, for non-taxable reasons, one might want to overestimate. There are articles that get back and disappear what you've done so far. I really find it very difficult to introduce to the parliamentary group what we are going to vote on. Very little will be voted on, because the tax evasion articles really "help" so much that they "color" the whole bill. We will, however, try to vote on articles that do make some reforms. We have wine, that is, 18 to 20. We have Article 9. We will also reserve for 10 to 12, which are the articles on public accounting. I'm not sure. We will discuss this in the parliamentary group, because we have not seen any legislative improvements. The Minister promised us and finally put in a correction that does not seem to change the philosophy of the article on public accounting last night. Therefore, these articles will be voted on at night. The rest of the articles on us cannot be voted on at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, special speaker from the Potami. Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm going to start with a question to my friend, Harry Theocharis, at the time he was Secretary-General of Insidon. It's a rhetorical question. We should not have the dialogue now, because we do not have the time. At some point we need to know why the combination of cash machines did not run on the servers of the "Democritus" - if I am not mistaken - which worked for a few months and then, for some reason, frozen, in real time, all the cash machines in Greece. In conjunction with “ENPRISE” and TAXIS in the General Secretariat of Revenues and the General Secretariat of Information Systems. Done, paid, worked, stopped. In Democritus. And there was research on Greek students.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u316	It's not true. There is no such system in the 'Democritus'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u317	Okay. We'll see. Well, there's something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u318	How does that man know all about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u319	Let's talk a little bit about employers' contributions. I'm young in politics. A lot of people have come to me. I've done my research myself. Of course the PSI in relation to the incredible recession caused a loss of companies, i.e. the closure of companies, padlocks and the loss of jobs in the private sector, mainly because in the public sector there were few redundancies, despite the rules of 10 to 1.5 to 1. People were retired, no new ones were hired to reduce operating costs a little. But I have infinite examples. I'll leave them if you want. There was a private fund of Alpha bank that has been inside today of 800,000 euros, in which the total contributions of old insured persons in relation to the pensions received by all together, the total pensions, for twenty-six times. The leverage is for twenty-six. Contributions 7,000,000 and pensions 200,000-300,000. And today someone has to pay those 800,000, if you want, for which the fund has been inside. I said yesterday that some time we should also find responsibilities. It is good to describe, but unfortunately, I have not learned in my work to make a statement, especially when there is a fraudulent or criminal responsibility or a felony, and to look into the eyes. Someone has to run a management check and find criminal responsibilities, put someone in jail. And we will have to see whether we will be able to regain personal property and not those who are responsible, part of the money that Greek taxpayers deserve, the rest of us, who have been burdened for so many years - and I as a Greek citizen - if you like, all these burdens. In relation to rents, I will table a proposal based on case law and the Code of Books and Elements on how we can do - I know the legislation - the collection without taxing it now, but when it is collected, because it is confirmed when it is born and not when it is collected. We'll see. I do not want the House and the Minister to get tired. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The next one, too, which fell in my understanding and I would like to discuss some practical issues - because yes, we will vote on and on the whole the bill, for the reasons I have explained in my three speeches - is this: a building partnership. A building partnership has five hundred and eighty - six members, one million owners. And be careful, it comes to the president of the cooperative club. Because there is no law in the state for a cooperative association, where they may have indivisible - to say it simply - a thousand plots and it has not been partitioned by the state - and it is the state that is to blame - for what each one has, firstly, does not pay any HPAI, because the state does not know where to send HPAI. Wrong number one in the state. Minister, to make the partnership contracts, to get everyone what they deserve from their share of real estate, and to secure the EVIA. But it is forbidden to put the president of the cooperative in jail, because he is the first to find himself on the list. We find him, like I said, in the corner and we shoot him in the head. It was confidential, but I'm going to file the introductory and descriptions for everyone's knowledge and for the Ministry. Because I saw the president of a cooperative worth 380,000 euros. And no one else has paid HISBIA, because the state doesn't know who's gonna pay HISBIA. This is how we find for a million - I say again - owners, members of cooperatives, a new income every year. They're a million people who want to pay, but we don't find them, because we haven't given them the property they're entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u320	Is the property of the cooperative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u321	Yeah, it's indivisible. There's no law if it's the property of the cooperative. It's not anyone's fortune. The framework is unclear. Nevertheless, if you want the 200,000 or 300,000 or 400,000, i.e. the value of HNVIA which is accounted for in one, it has to be divided, because this is an income, which will ultimately lose the state. Because the president of the cooperative will go to court and will be acquitted, and the state will lose the 300,000 or 400,000, which could have shared, and each man will also have a fortune in his hands. From there on, I will also give old analyses that we have done in relation to the fines of the two German car manufacturers who have fled. We should check here from 2013 and 2014 what the DU has done. I should also like to say to Mr Papadioulis my friend - for my part - that on 5-9-14 he had raised a matter with the European Commission, saying that they systematically flee due to the undervalue of imported luxuries, BMW, OPEL and MERCEDES. I'm saying it because they're registered with quotes by Mr. Papadimoulis. Along with Mr. Papadioulis to go find the 600 million fine. And what's the IRS doing right now? Mr. Minister isn't here. It's 600 million. 600 million has been charged. We're looking 280 for VAT. Immediately they've been counted 600 since 2013. Mr. Papadimoulis has done it. VOLKSWAGEN in America puts the car 35 grand. We've sold about ten thousand cars with 30 grand, that is 300 million fines. Are we going to do this? We should do it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I did a quick look at the pawn shops. 60 percent is illegal. 80% of the transactions are money laundering. One to four know is the revenue. There's one thing you get four. One cost you four wins. It's absolutely what I'm saying. Over four hundred checks have been carried out by the DUs throughout Greece. No one's been caught. What's the joke of the revenue case? The funny thing about income is that the average of three hundred pawns of annual income is 5,000 euros. The annual income declared to the DU three hundred VAT is 5,000 euros. We're all looking and we know it's 20-fold, 100-fold. And gold, I say, has left HOCTIEF and gone to Germany. There were systems and the IMO found them in its controls, which spit the gold. In other words, they melted quilts or anything Greeks gave, unfortunately, and sent them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u322	They're occult, most of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u323	Yeah. But they're occult. It is the largest fraud detected by the IMO. I'm saying it's because here we have to talk about it, record it, check it out later. I mean, when there are occults, they're all in prison for many years, for acceptance, for the promotion of crime, etc., which you lawyers know better than me. What's the chance for Greece? Watch out now, 'cause we're talking about a parallel program. At the same time I think that we will find money for the state so that we do not trouble the Greek taxpayer, who has had a great deal of trouble - we have told Parliament a thousand times - over the last six years. I'll testify to what Ireland's doing these days. It gives 6.5% instead of 12.5% - take care - of the 'knowledge development box', tax. What does "knowledge development box" mean? We've done it abroad. Now the Prime Minister brings it to us and is called "knowledge development box", which will be intellectual property rights revenues. It's official. I'll testify. I've translated it here in Greek. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, Ireland, which has the lowest tax in Europe - they bring us as an example - makes it half for intellectual property - as Luxembourg had - and the rights of trademarks and what intellectual property exists in cinemas, music or branding in companies, with 6.5%. Can I say how they create jobs? In Malta, where bet companies operate, so you all know, they're fifty-five thousand jobs. Why is he in Malta fifty - five thousand jobs in the six hundred thousand population? Because that's where they give them 10% or the cigarette. There's a framework, anyway. We, I said yesterday, do not even have a framework for the taxation of betting companies, which is why there is a huge amount of money laundering and black money. Finally, I will set two examples and close. For anonymous companies, I said that I disagree with personal responsibility. A new bankruptcy code will have to come out because - I predict - the liquidation of companies which, through the'red' loans, will be forced as a state to clear them up to the intermediary. There too, because there are irresponsible and unresponsible collections of "black" loans, which have been received but which have never been paid by the Greek businessmen and there the responsibility will go to a natural person, to find their money in Switzerland, their homes, or where they have it, does not mean that for them all the other anonymous companies, two hundred or three thousand companies in Greece, should have a responsibility for the natural person. I'll give an example. I came from a big taxi company and they told me this, which I didn't know, and I'd like to let you know. Today the transfer transaction from a father to a child or to a wife or a taxi market has a imputable income of EUR 2,400. Funny, like the annual income of pawnsmiths. The presumption gain to the seller is EUR 3,400. Real selling is between 40,000 and 70,000 euros. Let's just say it's 50,000 euros. There is a request, Minister, from these clubs and it is very serious that there should be a supposed income of 30,000 euros. "Can you do us instead of 2,400 euros, 30,000 euros the transaction, pay you tax, be ‘from where we are’, make our license worth? They do not want EUR 2,400 and there are EUR 55,000 or 60,000 'black' in every transaction, which with the capital controls they can neither get. And imagine what promises and what other materials and intangible things they give. This is a proposal they made to me. I want us to think about her because it's their proposal. This amount can be raised to 300 million transactions a year, maxim, with an average of 100 million. That is to say, three or five or six thousand transactions, for thirty thousand, to have an imputable income for us and to tax the transaction with a goodwill at thirty thousand per transfer. Not 2,400 euros and 50,000-60,000 black under the table. They don't want it themselves. And they told me, do it, pass the law, put in a testimonial of 30,000 euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, special speaker of the ANLL. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor from the Centro Association for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. We started by holding a standby so that we could respond to this bill. We've never been blind followers of him. We waited to hear your last word. We had hoped something might change. However, nothing seems to change, not only in terms of the multi-brand plan but also in general in the culture of the Government. Unfortunately, you are still reproducing the tradition of the rosés and the customer relations of the former governments. We asked you. Why should non-fighting officers retire ten years earlier? We have asked you to tell us why you consider that a bureaucratic uniform produces more work than a heavy manual worker in the private sector. We never received a reply. We have also asked you why you want private companies taking on public land or sea land with a public mandate not to pay municipal fees. We haven't received any answers again. We were impressed by your will to drag you into the banks' guise over-age banks to pay 2 euros HISBIA, in fact 1,1 euros. As if the summer suffering with the ATMs were not enough, as if the faintness we had in the bank tails were not enough to carry out even a transaction, we continue to deceive our Greek people and fellow citizens, who even at the last moment believed in this government by giving it another chance. We Centroles now have to defend the left-wing positions you have forgotten, because we consider it fair to hear the voices of non-preferential private workers too. To date, all these people who produce the wealth of the country have been treated with discredit, which, unfortunately, you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, seem to be continuing. They're not the orders of the strangers to whom you obey. It's the voices of the customer consciousness that keep you tied up in hand. No stranger imposes a lack of respect on our oldest fellow citizens. No European capitalist forced you to be amateurs in the wording of the laws. And why am I saying amateurs? How else can we explain the fact that you are trying to identify amounts of VAT in black market activities? What's more fragile and disappointing? Did any Europeans tell you that? Did a Merkel or an Olad come to tell you how you're going to formulate funny legislative proposals? No, of course, these clearly bear your signature. They show a lack of know-how on our part, and this is due to your arrogance in not asking for a government of wide cooperation, even on the brink of the dissolution of this country. For decades now, our President, Vassilis Leventis, and all the enthusiastic potential of the Centro Union have been fighting for the criminalisation of the ruse and the abolition of the party armies. We constantly denounce all tons of state-owned companies that are hurting the free economy. And to our surprise we see that all these morbid phenomena continue with zeal. Don't you know the rules of the healthy free economy? Or do you simply not want to apply them consciously and drive our country into a vicious cycle of misery and further recession? The recent national elections have managed - as paradoxical as it may sound - to create a huge blow. Is it not unacceptable to continue the regime of the reinforced proportional and the bonus of the fifty seats for the first party? The abstention was huge. Approximately 50% of the world denied parliamentarianism. Why? Did you bring a dozen wise persons here to explain that to you, too? You use committees with wise people for public pensions and benefits but not for democracy in general. He did not vote for us, ladies and gentlemen, the people to be managers. He voted for us to be politicians. We therefore call on you to be political and to understand the deepest moral and political deadlock in which you bring the country. It doesn't even seem to have bothered you that only 20% of the Greek people, based on proportional figures, have elected you as government. The Left's time-consuming demand was always the simple analogue and you obviously forgot it along with dignity in all your election speeches. It seems, beautiful power as well as convenient not to change anything. We have been drowned by the state, and we have been sent to the bottom of the well for this debt. We Centroles are proud that there are still productive forces in the country and, unfortunately, we are ashamed that there is no exploitation to them. You are only useful to collect money and even under the ruthless chase of tax criminalization you want to impose. You treat private businessmen as deceivers and all private employees as their bosses' ribbons. You are trying to identify dignity with the right to recruitment in public or the right to social benefits. No, gentlemen, it's time to know that dignity is not just about money. It is deserving that he produces work, that he who raises on his backs the many sins of detention, that he who participates in his movement pays not because he is a fool but because he wants to keep our country high not for you, not for us, but for his children, for the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u326	We thank the last special speaker, Mr Marios Georgiadis, from the Central Association. We are entering the speaker's prototypes on the articles. Since there are too many colleagues, over fifty-two, it is expected that Parliamentary Representatives and Ministers will also speak, as we have done in cutting the time of the ministers from eighteen to eight minutes, to do one, not analogously, a reduction in the time of the speakers on the articles from eight to six minutes, so that everyone can speak and not be wronged by the end of the list. I think it's fair. You can see that the Bureau has a tolerance. So if you agree to go to six minutes with a relative tolerance so that we can all talk and have finished on the twelfth so that the roll-call vote can follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u327	Who are the special speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u328	They're the speakers on the articles, they're the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u329	From seven to six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u330	It's eight minutes because it's a speech on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u331	Yeah, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u332	That's the suggestion. I think it is reasonable at a time when we have also cut backs to the ministers. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u333	So the House agrees. So we're on our way with six minutes. Mr Savvas Anastasiades has the floor, as the first speaker, from New Democracy. Give the good example, Mr Anastasiades. You're the first on the list, so it'll be a very good sample.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law, of course, in principle and the articles, has been mentioned very thoroughly by the rapporteur. In addition, Mr President, we will make a political position in the short time available to us and refer to some parts of the bill. Today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of the people after the election result, you are bringing for the vote a plan that changes the lives of all of us to the worst of course. After seven months of supposedly cruel and proud negotiation, after two elections and an incomprehensible and disastrous referendum, which led to the closure of the banks, it was time for the truth that the account was over. Self-determination and self-determination, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, too quickly. It's time to prove your double face. One, the election person, the face of promises, lionisms, parallel programs, illusions and the other, the post-election person, the face of landing in the harsh reality. No more pride. Neither did you abolish the third pension, nor did you restore the memorandum, as you were demonstrating, but you accepted a much tougher, without any negotiation, since first in the inability and disastrous way you negotiated you brought the country to the edge of the cliff, before the disaster. And if we, ladies and gentlemen, did not stand up to the circumstances, we did not show a high sense of responsibility towards the country and the citizens, today the country would have collapsed. We do not say that, the Prime Minister said so, and you ask us on top and the change, because today we do not vote on the implementers, while we have voted on the programme. That fairy tale that's going to be a comedy ending! We have told you, and then, that there is no way we can vote on implementing measures that will actually bring about. We voted on the country's stay in the Eurozone. We repeat this to you, to inspire it. Political framework and objectives have been adopted. The measures and specialisation are yours, they are your property. You have studied them, you have negotiated them, you will be voting on them. Don't try to figure out you don't understand. Did you forget what you were saying last year? You forgot what you said in the January elections, what did you say at the time of the referendum? Do you remember what you were saying a month ago in the last national election for parallel projects? What you are supporting today is when did you see them? When did you find out? Where are the painless solutions that you promised in society? The fraud is over, ladies and gentlemen. Today you bring and support what you have been declaring until yesterday, tough measures, fundamentally, anti-grassroots, anti-developmental. Where are the measures against pluralism, which you proclaimed in advance? Is there even a reference to such measures in this bill you're introducing? Take back in a humiliating way everything that you had supported - and we had supported - in the previous period, a few months ago. We told you then, be careful, take the unilateral actions back. Refuse the 100 dose adjustment today. You are abolishing the option of selecting a lower insurance contribution to freelance professionals. You are bringing increases in taxation and in VAT that dismantle entrepreneurship. If entrepreneurship is not supported, if we do not strengthen business and investment, wealth and GDP in Greece will not increase and new jobs will not be created. Moreover, go to horizontal cuts in pensions and increase the retirement age limits. You bring increases in urban transport tickets, when you vote in favour of them, with philosophical politics, moving around the world free of charge. Now the account's coming to the citizen. Of course, inconsistencies and mockery are sealed by the abolition of the provision that restored the benefit to the uninsured over-aged, repatriated relatives and natives, which the Prime Minister himself pledged to grant. Now the Minister said he'd bring it in November. Let him come and commit. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, for a while your tolerance. All the myths you have created, the delusions and the illusions collapse with huge noise. All these unpleasant things, which we are discussing today, would not need to discuss if they were to stand up to the circumstances and with a sense of responsibility, you did not lead the country in January to elections if you do not turn growth into recession and surpluses into deficits. We would not need to discuss this today. Of course, you still find that you have the moral advantage, both white and uninfected. But what you have done with the election flag breaks down today too. Why? Why did your ministers reject it, the ministers who forgot to declare the shares, which they forgot to declare, Mr Minister, who have invested or put their money into foreign banks and otherwise, urge the people to bring it to Greece. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the SYRIZA and ANEL Government, trying to create a parallel virtuality, creates a senseless reality that is confusing the country in recession, poverty and inexperience. Impact downwards. Because I do not think there will be a serious man who will bring money to invest in Greece with a hostile government. We, ladies and gentlemen, consistent with our positions and election commitments, do not adopt the tactics of SYRIZA, the 'no' to everything that followed when it was in the opposition. We are voting for what we think is right and beneficial for the country and the citizen, and we are looking after you, Minister, because you are here, to hear about the articles on agricultural land and bring the agricultural bill and see what you will bring here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr. Savva Anastasiades. Mrs Fotini Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy and we hope that it will be more time-consuming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if we have heard speeches by SYRIZA Members start with faith in our partners, in the European Central Bank, in the International Monetary Fund, and we have reached the SYRIZA MPs asking us to respect the agreed actions and not unilateral actions. This is how the anti-Russian radical Left is slowly becoming the first neoliberal Left in Europe. However, while the Greek people are looking at this mutation, Mr. Tsipras and his ministers are engaged in a bar of tax raids, pension cuts and dramatically reducing the income of citizens, having the nerve of calling them all a fair burden-sharing. At the same time, the ministers forget. I wonder if anyone's wondering. Are they just forgetting? They forget to say millions and shares, they cause with their responses the common feeling, government MPs are asking for their expulsion from the government, and the Prime Minister has not even the elementary emotiveness to say a word about the issue, but it only whispers something about the left's infamous moral advantage. What moral, what advantage, what left, Mr. Tsipras? On the other hand, instead of confessing with prudence and plunged head that you have deceived the Greek people for the second time, completely hiding at the time of the election, the heavy account of the agreement that you have brought, you are now asking, at the fund time, that is, the first 4 billion, the change and the responsibility of the Opposition. I have listened with surprise to Mr Alexiadis both in committee and in plenary. Of course, at least Mr Alexiadis was present - and from the result he is credited to his positives - in contrast to the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development - and we welcome Mr Apostle - who has taken the lead in the committees, and I mean for provisions of your authority, Minister, in the multi-project. Fortunately after the instigation of our rapporteur, Mr Panagiotopoulos, we welcome you to the ministerial seats to inform us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u337	You'll vote for the articles on me, so there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u338	We, Minister, vote for anything positive, as opposed to you who voted against and positive from philosophy. You have therefore deceived, Minister, with the so-called equivalents, which you have pushed to the prerequisites and, therefore, not in the measures adopted, to explain, you have been criminally delayed, ejecting the account, 'negotiating' - with many introductory words, of course - you have signed, you will implement. But are you responsible - to come back to Alexiadis - from the opposition party? As for the recent people's mandate that every three and a little while you call it out to rinse out the responsibilities of the plundering you bring, dare you say that we who uncover the works and the days are criticizing - I read it self-determination - to the people for their vote, look at you guys to respect this popular command even post-elections, asking for an apology from those who deceived their vote, an apologies for what you politically voted for and now you vote against with this multi-branded plan, an apologies for the incorporation of the hundred doses that you voted against when the New Democracy brought it, in October 2014, despite a positive measure. And you and the Annell of course voted against it. And this is one of our capitalist differences, that is, we have the political stature anything positive to vote for, even if we are in opposition. So since you have then voted against it, you have occasionally forgotten it by including huge sums of money - and why not consider tax-gatherings more than one million - and now you come and worsen it traits, increasing the interest rate from 3% to 5%, reducing the three-month stay to regulation in a monthly and, of course, a major one, arbitraryly giving the public administration the absolute power, the absolute sovereign right to reduce the instalments at the beam. Inaccurate, uncontrolled and unacceptable, regulation that, in our view, leaves the thousands of civilians unprotected - debtor to potential transactions and corruption. I'm sorry you're also due to retroactive taxation on real estate. You have said that you will abolish the present HPAI you are now in charge of collecting HPAI from the first euro. Remove tax exemptions even in the rented rooms, individual hotel facilities, a hit on the small and medium-sized tourist business, a hit on the small and medium-sized development workers, from whom we expect revenues to pay salaries, pensions, allowances, necessary state expenditure. So level up tourism, level up primary production - as is the multi-brand plan for farmers - to see where you will at last pay the high-priced - otherwise - your statement. I am sorry, too, for the deception of the ultra-aged insurers of the OGA, more than twenty-two thousand of our returning compatriots, whose vote you consciously intercepted, wearing the staff of a so-called social sensitivity. But now, the faces and masks have fallen and political cynicism, opportunism and the fragmentation of the second-time left government is revealed. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I shall conclude, Mr President. An apology is due to the pension neck that you bring, by digging even the provisions of 2015. An apology to police, firefighters, portals for the insurance policy you're looking after them. And while you do not have the courage to ask for this apology, you have the courage to ask us to vote for a Armageddon of measures that you bring, to be, consistent with our views. You talk to us about consistency. I think it is the shortest left joke, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. But, to end the jokes, you'll vote on your own. You rule, you tax, you are mocking, you are going to vote. Our own consistency will be seen where there are positive provisions, where there are measures to help economy, growth, employment, pretext and production. Unknown concepts I'm afraid of you. That is where we shall say 'yes'. But only there. In the rest, the tax-sprinklers, the substantives, the "yes" will be heard by the Members of the first time neoliberal, as it turns out, Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u339	Thank you to Mrs Fotini Arabaji from New Democracy. Mr Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for six minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] A little quiet, please, so that we can continue, if you please, Mr. Cryazides, Mr. Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, we can unite our voices because of quality....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u341	You're underneath, and I'm on top. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u343	Mr. Theonas, please. We're on. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor. Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u344	Thank you. With the multi-brand plan, there is another step in the escalation of the attack on the lasting government, the European Union and capital, which is now unfolding towards the rights of workers. It comes as a complement to the previous two Memorandums, while preparing the ground for the "main dish", which will include new changes in industrial relations and social security rights in the next period. Thus, at the same time as the multi-brand plan is scanning the low income and workers' rights, the government, like the Members of the Co-population, is stepping up efforts to disorientate the people by paving the way for corrective action to continue negotiations to reduce the negative effects. This is clearly a mockery and affliction, trying to throw ashes into the eyes of the people. Because no corrective action will bring back, for example, the retirement age limits, will not restore pensions that are slaughtered for the most part, it will not remove the effects of taxation for farmers, for the self-employed. In fact, the measures provided for in the plan and the other measures to be followed constitute a derogation from a rule? Is this a mistake to have a corrective intervention? But this is the course followed in all the Member States of the European Union, whether they have memoranda or not, and these are measures which are consciously promoted, which have been decided years ago in the European Union and which were also promoted in our country before the crisis, but which has accelerated their implementation and which are an objectively inextricable condition, in order to serve and ensure the best conditions of profitability of the monopolies, to strengthen their competitiveness. It is also proof of this that, at the same time as the government is fainting, it puts hands on the poor income of pensioners, workers, farmers and self-employed, it continues its provocative support for large capital with a number of new advantages. The government, as we have heard from the SYRIZA rapporteur, considers that the measures taken are necessary both for evaluation and for financing and debt. These millions, however, will the institutions add 1 euro to people's income? Of course not. In the Memorandum itself, is it not described that to disburse each dose, will new measures be taken? Or will the debate on the debt be alleviating to some of the pensioners, the poor farmers, the young people fighting for the cut? No, of course not. Because any debt relief is related to the possibility for the urban state to go out on the markets for borrowing in order to pay off the debt and scoring hot money on the investors for investment or to do business with them in the form of partnerships. However, the tax storm has continued for the majority of the local households affected for years, for example with HNPH, which is maintained and even imposed for the owners of endless real estate, but which, for example, exempt large hotel groups, for example, or as in Article 13 where the exemption from business fees is provided for. Or is the fact that the coroners and convergences which have taken place during a debate on the multi-brand plan in committee, but also in plenary, on Article 15 on the price of the product, are intended to satisfy people's needs in quality, safe, effective and free of charge? Of course not. They represent a reflection of competition that is objectively evolving in the face of the forthcoming opening up of the market through the introduction of generic from other countries, a competition between domestic and foreign companies in the sector for market shares in the drug. However, because patients continue to pay higher and higher sums for the drug market, no one said anything of all parties, rather than questioning who will give credentials to whom? To the pharmaceuticals, who from this very point of view in committee were blackmailing raw and cynical. You say nothing, however, that the insurance price of medicines is normally lower than the retail price, so that patients are charged out of the percentage of participation and with the payment of the entire or part of the drug difference that hundreds of drugs have joined the negative list and are paid 100% of the patients, as well as the designated non-prescribed medicines, which are also paid in 100% of the patients. You also say nothing about increasing the rate of disease participation from 0% to 10% or even 25%, or also about imposing 1 euro per prescription nothing has been heard. All this remains in force, forcing patients to pay more and more for the drug market, even though measures to reduce retail prices have been promoted over the past few years. This is how, in the last five years, while public pharmaceutical expenditure has been reduced, the State's and the insurance funds' share of 54% - and here, however, is one truth or, if you will, half the truth that the Minister said last night, because he did not say the other half - increased the private sector, i.e. the payment of patients by 43.1% at the same time. Thus, in reality, with the measure of the Government, as with the previous measures taken in this regard, a small part of the high profitability of the pharmaceutical industry can be deducted. But that doesn't mean patients will pay less than before. It also calls for an inadequate budget for public expenditure on medicines, including the costs of vaccines, as well as the new drugs that will be released, so-called 'accurate medicines', which the Memorandum says should not be charged with the budget being closed. I would also like to ask the Minister - who is not here now, but has already been - what will happen and what will the government do with the anti-physical vaccine. Two years now, there's no anti-physiological vaccine. We now have invasive children against tuberculosis. What measures will you take? Will the children be vaccinated? This means, therefore, that the government will take measures to limit public pharmacy expenditure but not private payments. This can be achieved either by increasing workers' contributions - it has already been done in the health sector of the main and secondary pensions - or by increasing the participation of patients in EPPO-related medicines or by increasing negative list medicines as well as unprescribed medicines. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Mr President, give me some time, because you surprised us with the change. Such measures also serve the pharmaceutical industry to reduce or abolish the amounts returned by the claw back, depending on the amount of the overrun to the EEAS. In fact, the Minister was revealing last night, after having taken care of the pharmaceuticals, saying that the government will not only take care of the potential loss but also of measures and initiatives to further enhance their profitability through innovation, through export aid, etc. Even so, the reduction announced by the Minister for Health, even in the programme statements, does not mean that it will be implemented by increasing government expenditure but by taking into account the closed EEA budget, so this expenditure will be shared among other patients. Here, then, is the "divide and rule" which has become the government's official policy in order to cover the classicity of the policy pursued, but also to disorientate workers from the main cause, their opponent, that is, their monopolies and political servants. That is why the question of medical care for everyone without a wall and a cutback, with the abolition of all payments, characters and participation, with the abolition of contributions to the insurance fund and lists of medicines, is the framework for claiming the labour movement and popular alliance in the prospect of the popular development path through socialisation of the capitalist industry, research and production of medicines as the only condition for them to be converted from expensive paid goods to social goods. No worker, therefore, should fall into the trap of the polluters for any corrections, because this policy is not corrected, lifts up recesses, only fights and is overthrowsed with the causes of it. In this direction, the Communist Party of Greece calls on the people not to show any tolerance and no waiting for the government, rather than to give their own fighting, racing, classic response to the anti-Following Government - the European Union - capital. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and two educational escorts from the 2nd Evia Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Panayota Kozombol has the floor for six minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government is called upon to manage the greatest economic and social crisis facing our country in a time of peace. It is a crisis that has been the result of the policy that has been pursued over the last forty years by the governments, by the parties that have ruled this place, by New Democracy and by the PASOK. It is a crisis, mainly due to the great lending of our country in currency which it itself could not print on the guarantees given for this loan by granting our national sovereignty. So any recovery in the country passes through the recovery of our national sovereignty and development. Both are now demanded and pass through the 'convergences' of measures and regulations. In this context, the funding agreement signed with the lenders in July and became a state law in August. The applicable law of this agreement is also the specific draft law, which we are voting on today, nothing more, nothing less. This draft law allows for the country's immediate financing, removes the risk of the country's exit from the common currency and helps to create fiscal stability. More specifically, the tax system in question becomes more equitable because, without new taxes being imposed and without being the draft law to bring about the overall tax reform, an streamlining of the fines is currently being carried out, thereby increasing the collection and allowing small businesses to solve chronic problems. The institutional framework for tax evasion is reinforced by stricter penalties, depending on the size of the crime. The Code of Tax Procedure shall be simplified, allowing for the submission of a late supplementary or amending declaration each year. It also reduces bureaucracy by simplifying the procedure for authorising public expenditure, since preventive control is abolished and only pre-contractual and repressive controls remain. The electronic handling of documents for the clearance and payment of public expenditure shall be established. It is planned to concentrate the public financial resources, by creating a single account of the Greek State, a provision which will help to improve the management and use of the available resources, without, after acceptance of the modification by the Minister, harm self-governing legal persons. The urban transport of Athens is restructured, in order to make the public transport viable and attractive, so that it becomes the first choice to move to the wider Athens region, thus contributing to the economic, social and environmental development of the capital. There are also positive provisions for the resolution of the OSE. Having said that, I find it very hypocrisy to vote for everything that has been heard and heard in this Chamber by the opposition, and even by those parties, which, since February, have already called on the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to vote for what the lenders presented to it, shedding crocodile tears and screaming for the alleged damage that the country has suffered since the late signing of any agreement, from the parties that had taken the gatherings and protesting in favour of the Yunker proposal before the referendum, and which are now being cut, because SYRIZA has allegedly turned the "no" of the Greek people into "yes", from the parties that voted for the Finance Convention on 14 August, which contains all the provisions of today's bill. What exactly did the voters keep in mind of the loan agreement? To forget it immediately after the loan requested was granted? The truth is that this is exactly what the previous governments have done and that is why they are calling us today because we are applying the agreeds. In fact, many with selective memory, we are also being moved by the finger for the risk of deleting the Lagard list, those who for four years had the Lagard list in the drawers or did preformative checks. Let me not talk about the other cases of corruption and the assumptions of other lists. Those who led the country to bankruptcy what exactly do they propose? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill opens the way for the completion of the first assessment, the recapitalisation of banks and the regulation of'red' loans. And that's how we officially open up the debt write-down debate. The road is difficult, but it has perspective. And now is a greedy period that measures are taken without any positive results being evident. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] However, there is no other way to regain our national sovereignty unless we regulate our credit obligations unless we develop the country and do not propose its economic reconstruction. By guaranteeing the NSRF on better terms, with the fronts that have already been opened for the fight against corruption, with the laws and initiatives that will be followed for the development of the public sector, for its return, it will appear that, apart from the implementation of the agreement we have signed, the parallel plan promised by SYRIZA is unfolding and so we can hope in better days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Kozobol. Mr Dimitris Kyriazides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u348	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, another aim and purpose, but the intervention of Mr Theonas, who has been elected for the first time, as I see two other colleagues,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u349	He had been elected an old MEP. of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u350	As a congressman, I mean. I am therefore taking the floor for his own intervention and possibly 'attack' against Mrs Arabatzis - and I will explain - because she was very perceptive to him in relation to some of her references. Colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately we are not mindful. I would like to express my solidarity with the SYRIZA colleagues, because we and I myself have had similar situations coming too many times in a controversy with my conscience. Because I have been representing a large sector for years in which I have been forced or forced to take a situation - as one wants - in the medium term in 2012, in terms of measures for which I have played many struggles, so that there can be institutions in a hard working area. Unfortunately, we have been forced under certain circumstances either positive measures to lift or - if you want - too many times to mitigate and make the working and insurance status of these hardworking workers more difficult - and I mean workers in the Armed Forces and Security Bodys. That is why I express my solidarity. I wish you courage. But I would expect, my dear colleague, Mr Theonas, that he would have a substance and value and I would have honestly felt a little more illusory if there were a self-criticism from you, from the Prime Minister and from the colleagues who were during the previous parliamentary term, where we heard the tenths of what, which is very heavy, and we were forced not by myself but by many of my colleagues to hide and cannot fall into their prefectures. Because you were one of the 'protagonists' who were creating this whole climate not only outside Parliament, but - if you like - even in small geographical parts of the country where the situation was very painful. I always wished that every bill in my previous parliamentary term would have a understanding between us, because things were difficult. Today, as a government - and I mean the previous seven months - you have also grown up from within all that we are required - as you wish to call it, whatever name you wish to give - in terms of lenders, loan-to-courts, those home-to-dossers, etc., as you have mentioned many times. This cycle closes either we like or we don't like it. But it will unfortunately also be the swan song of this Left in this perception and in the way it deals with all these issues. From our point of view, from the point of view of the New Democracy, a confederation was requested. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, this is the case. We have a three-year-old program. If you want, it's a specific menu. Now if you dress it up with something different, the substance doesn't change. It is therefore of great importance and it is another to be a hundred fifty-five Members and possibly a few hundred-four or fifty-three - we will live all of this - and another is to have a set of parties with this European orientation and commonly seek to improve issues that we are being imposed on us outside. The lenders specifically chose you, because these kinds of measures couldn't have been taken by New Democracy. Besides, its Members and the speaker themselves - I have always had to report to them - we have reached a limit. It was next that any other measures could not pass. So you have chosen and unfortunately the Left is coming to take - and it always happens - the most anti-social, the most anti-optical measures. You take them the way you take them and come and move the finger again today. I think there should be a remorse, an apology, so that we can work together, because all the other countries have done so. The only country left is us, who continue these kinds of conflicts without content. I hope there will be a follow-up from your side of remorse so that we can come to an agreement. That is what I believe the Greek society is asking for. The Greek society seeks to do this because we are all working for the fascists - whether you like it or not - if that is the case. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I wanted to stay on a matter. I would like to stay on this issue, for those people who were on the night ensure public order and security of this country and our own. From where you come from, ladies and gentlemen, the police officer will be able to ensure you, your family and Greek society. You cannot come today to bring this kind of provision alone for them and, indeed, with a regression in terms of their insurance rights. We've made a lot of effort. You have given time too - and you do well - so that they have time in the studies to create their professional funds. It is not possible today to come in a retrospective way to get them back, to put a hand in their pigeon. Because that is the sole objective and purpose: The 270 million that their funds have, so as to strengthen what you think you will be able to exploit and, in my view, to create or steal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Cryazides, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u352	I would like to stay in the report made by the Prime Minister on this matter. And that's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. Article 221, that is to say, has to be withdrawn. It's not just reinsurance. It is deeply undemocratic. Once again it contains anti-constitutional provisions. This article cancels accumulated insurance rights and restricts the freedom to choose the insured persons of the Security Councils. "What was being promoted by the government" - meant New Democracy - "it is not called social security resolution. It is called extinction of social security". That is what you are doing today, ladies and gentlemen, is doing with this regulation. We have tabled an amendment in order to salvage at least our dignity towards what we will just meet from this door. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u353	Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware - and the world is all too well - that the anti-grassroots machine now operates with three engines, three memorandums. The third memorial child is the multi-project that we are discussing and every word and line, serving the needs of business groups and capitalist recovery. As such it attacks the poor income and the remaining workers' rights and, of course, it continues and escalates the anti-population attack. At the same time, it is announcing the next anti-grassroots measures on labour and social security rights. In this way, the Government confirms the well-known saying of FIAT's Agnelli, how useful it is sometimes that Left who handles capital matters better than Right. The pattern of government propaganda that we hear here and here is basically moving on two axes. You say “all right, there are some injustices in the measure. But what do we do, guys? We have avoided the worst, and now it is important for evaluation to be opened for funding to be opened. Let us begin then and the debt debate." You didn't just take the government chair from the previous ones. You got their arguments, too. Are the millions borrowed by the lenders - 'the predators', as you once said - will you give them to the people's income? We recall that according to the memorandum you have all voted on together, provision is made for the disbursement of each instalment, new measures are needed to remove income from the people's families. Is any debt arrangement going to benefit the people, young people who are struggling for a part-session? But now, with this bill, you are permanently seizing the cash reserves of the municipalities, hospitals and universities, so you can pay the lenders in full and in biennial. The second axis of government propaganda is equally misleading and dangerous. You say to the people: "Be patient, take care of yourself. We've received burnt land. We're taking tough action, but we're gonna make remedial moves. We're continuing to negotiate. We are confronted to reduce the negative effects and, after all, we also have the alibi, that is, the label of social sensitivity." You continue unwise to cultivate deceit. You want to earn time and take the popular tolerance and consent to the barbaric measures you take. Really, what conflict are you talking about? The only thing you are fighting is with the people and, on the front, with the victims of their rights and their conquests. This is evidenced by the brutal cuts in education, health, welfare, insurance, pensions, to support the competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups, this sacred cow of the system. It also bears witness to the tragic situation in the field of special education and the Golgotha of the families with disabilities. Ashes fly into the eyes of the world. You hypnoticly give him when you talk to him about supposedly corrective actions to avoid reacting to your policy. So what are you gonna fix? Capitalism? Will you make him more human? Are you going to reinstate the retirement age limits that you bring them up to sixty-seven years and put them on? Aren't you going to restore your pensions? Will you abolish the taxation of poor farmers and self-employed persons, or will you tax the big capital, whose provocative tax exemptions are still going on with this bill? But your policy is not a mistake, as you imply. It is the general policy that applies throughout the European Union. These are the predetermined measures of capitalist restructuring, which go everywhere to boost the competitiveness of capital. As for the sign we've been talking about, the alibi of social sensitivity you've been projecting from Genaris and put, faded and spidered. With the resolution of the third memorandum, pieces and shrouds became involved. In addition to the other anti-grass measures, it is also the automatic cutting-up of social costs triggered by the multi-brand plan and concerned with essential people's needs. And that doesn't allow you to invoke that sensitivity. The only sensitivity you show is against the capital, giving it new privileges and space for its concentration, reaping the small from the market. Isn't this the ENVY for small tourists and the discharge of the hotel owners? There is no time for passive expectation or time for deceptive and deceptive expectations of correcting this policy. This policy is neither corrected nor divided. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. One must be the choice of the people. With his social alliance and his struggle to fight it, to make it difficult, in order to overthrow it and the causes of it. The rallying of class forces today and on the 22nd of the month, the pagan strike on November 12 shows the way for the people. We'll be with him!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u355	Mr Gregorakos Leonidas has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u356	Democratic Reconciliation? PASOK, weren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u357	I, dear Thanasis, am in favour of the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u358	You're joining the new one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u359	Good evening. Mr President, my dear colleague, ladies and gentlemen, where is my friend Sakis? We lost Sakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u360	The municipalities are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u361	Sakis is my university student.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u362	You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u363	No, I wanted to talk to him about what he said yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u364	Make an appointment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u365	Well, Sakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u366	Last name? What Sakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u367	Sakis Papadopoulos, my student from the university. We're friends. A year older is Sakis, but we're fine all the years together and friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u368	Were you classmates?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u369	We know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Gregoraco, it's good without Sakis to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u371	But what Sakis said yesterday, I can't believe it. I didn't expect Sakis to say that. That's why I wanted to see Sakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u372	You believe them, you don't believe them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u373	Continue your placement without having to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u374	I wanted to see Sakis talk to me about this. And to tell him, "Look at me, how did you say that?"
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u375	When he's present, you can tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u376	So I think Sakis didn't believe what he said yesterday. And I don't think what Sakis said was the result of a tough negotiation. In my eyes, therefore, as well as in all the Greek people, the conclusion of the negotiation is more the image of an unconditional tradition. You're not the one who knew and we've been listening for the past five years. You're something new, something different, something mutated. This fits the phrase, "Where were you young enough to say that I would become someone else."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u377	Is that for you or for us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u378	For you. For you. Five years I took Golgotha. I got it on my back. It's time for others to take these and tell a lot more lies. With today's measures, then, bring the tops down. I don't know you. So many radical changes are taking place in the fundamental pension rights of all the insured, that if your ex-boyfriends, the Army and some Romans who came out in some morning room, I think they'd do a rag. But it's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u379	Aren't you happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u380	Of course, Greece's pension system needs reform. We are not against this, and one cannot say that it is sustainable. But if I remember correctly, we said that there would be no reductions in wages and pensions. So will we accept a reduction in pensions, the abolition of the CSCE and the disappearance of supplementary pensions, as this government suggests? I do not think any of us would believe this because we simply went to the elections with a specific programme. It's abolished with this, today, and it seems to me that you're going out on the streets. We were then throwing oranges, lemons, yogurt. You were outside then. Now you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u381	Why don't you go on the road too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u382	Let me talk. You're here. The outsiders who were yelling, "to burn, to burn..." etc., are no longer there because they are in here. So remove all the beneficial provisions made by Lover and all the previous ministers. It is time for you to understand that we are in a new, different reality, which you yourself have created. The drachmas and those who were outside, those who were going to the Mint, with hackers in the VDUs, are not just outside the government party, but fortunately they are outside the House as well. What a sanctuary of hours the House is having with your peace of mind, Mr President. It was your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u383	Are you referring to me personally now or generally because of the situation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u384	No, Mr. President. I'm telling you, you're calm and we're having a good time now. We used to have a really bad time in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u385	But I do not think it was a matter for the Bureau of Parliament that was caused by the inconvenience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, you do not understand that you have participated in a Bureau of the previous government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u387	I'm sorry, Mr. Gregoraco, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u388	...which was not dear to the Government, was it not dear to the Anti-Population, was it not dear to Parliament? You weren't a partner? Didn't we join together and see what was going on? The Bureau and the House had changed their time as North Korea changed. The gentleman in North Korea changed his country time, made it at night. And the Bureau of Parliament had changed Parliament's time. He did it at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u389	The last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u390	I'm saying the last thing. That is what I say to the President, because he was in the previous Bureau. Well, it's true that beyond the first seven months, this government leaves us no room for optimism. The Prime Minister is the first Prime Minister not to be confronted with an irresponsible and demagogic opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u391	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Theonas, let us hear them a little. You were telling us. Aren't you gonna hear us at all?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u393	I'm listening. I'm watching you carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u394	In the past five years, therefore, we have kept a 'no', a 'no' demagogic', an irresponsible 'no'. So we are an Opposition responsible. We are not protagonists of populism. So your ability will be judged. The image of the same and double on the other pillar of the social state, the hospitals. All intensive care units are closed. They closed them the other day. They've been opened again. They understood the mistakes they made. Doubts from here. They fired the unit nurses. They took them back. He doesn't know the dog his master. The oil bonus you probably won't give. One in five households has no worker, while some three million people do not have access to the health system. The financially affected Greece still has a way to recover, which you are employed. And we saw the Vice-President of the Government talking on the channels last night. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So do not enjoy your laurels. You have not changed the bad text. Unfortunately, you made it worse. From now on, you and ANELs understand that in ministerial seats, which you understand, things seem different, because those who do not fit there are stacked in general secretaries in the state, special secretaries. Because, as we said, Greece has changed now gives the fight from the new meteors. The great populace fighters! Of course, the goals of the race have also been changed. Mrs. Merkel now is your friend. Eminence Shoeble must exist, because there must always be an enemy for you. The "Olandreou" that will come tomorrow and honor him is Aleente of Europe. The Americans, "the first killers of the people", are your best friends. The memorials have been shaded but you first apply them and better than the previous ones. Isn't that what you want to say? So Greece has changed. Greece of social genocide, as you said, and humanitarian destruction eats stuffed, is no longer there. SYRIZA to the government and all the people's friends in power because they left the squares and they're in here. Thousands of tons of toxic hatred and social fanaticism used as normal propaganda vehicles against righteous and unrighteous have been forgotten. You have responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Gregoraco, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u396	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are talking about a social state without having a real picture of Greece. The same, of course, could be said of the upcoming deadlocks in the area of public health and wider welfare. Go and see what's going on with the pensions every day and with the CSR. All this is becoming even more complicated if we add to this environment the serious social change that has caused immigration and refugee. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the second time left has now lost the moral advantage. Any breaches, will make SYRIZA Government's shape - ANEL lame. You can't be the minister of a government, and for three days you've been hiding. That was never happening again! This Committee on Insurance cannot come out and bring great memories from the past that have been overtaken. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now a responsibility for all of us, for the political parties and politicians. We have to make the big decisions. But for you, "First, the soul comes out and after the houi." Because it seems that your mindsets do not change, even if it is the second round of a so-called left government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u397	Mr. Gregoraco, this is where you'll have to stop now. You've already reached nine minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u398	I'm done, Mr. President. We, ladies and gentlemen, although the people have given you a second chance, say: 'Finally, work. The times are not so thin.'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u399	Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, the climate in the Chamber in the last few days is inevitably a climate of historical memory. It is a climate that forces us all to remember what happened five, six years ago in this Chamber and, at any rate, to look at the ways, methods and conditions under which the left government has developed into power. On November 25, 2014, the Minister of Economy, Mr. Tsakalotos, who even lets nothing fall down, referring to the New Democracy, said: "You have no sense of urgency. New approaches and new analyses are needed." He said that, with reference to the economic situation and economic policy of the Samara government. And it goes on: "You are like a hamster." For the Greeks is the well-known animal, the hamster, the mouse, which runs on the wheel and is constantly at the same point. And it concludes: 'You have a lack of sense of urgency'. The story, and I would say, Nemesis brought them together so that this government, a member of which Mr Tsakalotus is also, after some time and with the well-known blackmail that the Constitution has unfortunately been in this bad position, has broken up, the House has gone to elections and has become a government. And it now seems that it took eight, nine months to see the sense of the urgency that this government has and to pay for a "apron", which they say in my village, about 100 billion more, for the "teachers" of this left-wing government. You are, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the epitome of political mutation. You are talking about the old and the new, which has succeeded the memorial and the antimony, when the twenty-one of the members of your Ministerial Council are chosen by the former members of the New Democracy and PASOK. Mr. Tsironis supported his rhetoric on the dual moral advantage, etc., Listenson - listen, in the Greek Parliament of 2015 to speak among us about moral advantages. The concept of morality, ladies and gentlemen, is a broad concept for everyone. Many books on morality have been written since antiquity, from "Methics Nicholas" until today. You must be very careful, especially you, addressing us, talking about morality. In any case, whatever moral advantage you have had, you have dismissed it with your general political career and practice. So he said Mr. Tsironis, speaking of HISPHIA, to us: “You brought HISPHIA. Why are you talking now?" And he said it as if Mr. Tsironis was not the minister of an elected government, he is not the minister of a government which invoked the abolition of HISPIA. We're talking about this for once, because we have to talk about this. It reminds me of the old 'EEC and NATO' the same union that we have reached as if we were ashamed to say who was in favour of this European perspective, who defended it, who did not, and why you are not changing it today. It says to us, in fact, 'You speak of a lesser state' - so said Mr Chironis - which means less schools, less hospitals'. We, gentlemen of the Left, are not just talking about a lesser state. We're talking about a lesser evil state. In other words, we are talking about a director in Sparta Pathology, who has not been in existence for a year and has been in your own government. We are talking about an EEW, which, for example, had recently been launched to be straightforward and correct. And, unfortunately, yesterday at noon in the Molas of Laconia, a serious accident was not settled with the EKRD, which was an hour from the Molas, while there had to be an ambulance from the EKRD in that area. Myrrels would say if it was a government of New Democracy and Mercedes in another case. And we have come to the point that this Greek citizen has once again been transported by a rural car. We want to abolish this evil state, of which you are champions, allies all these years. Mr Theonas - who is present - referred to his speech about Protestants and the alliance of the South. Mr Theonas, do not have these - I would say - obsessed. The Protestants for five years have been supporting the Greek people with the backwardness of their peoples. There are - as you know - the protesters who have collapsed for many years and, I would say, dragged into the squares, whose leaders today are Ministers, elected members of this government, and who have also been protesting. We must understand that at the moment the alliance of the South, which you referred to and which would change the centreline of Europe, is just a great idea on the left, one of the great bankrupt ideas of the Left. I don't know if you have anything to do with the God of the JRC. I remember the JRC's colleague, Mr Theonas, who has been speaking with the other rhetoric for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u401	I'm the same guy! He's the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u402	I reckon with the JRC's colleagues on their obsessions and views. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u403	In a minute, it would be more acceptable, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u404	You are also talking about returning to normality. What regularity? The normality you have undermined with your rhetoric fighting reality to become a government? I just want to say one. In the Naples region of Laconia on 17 July, there was a catastrophic fire. There was a parade of ministers of your government, a pre-election period gar. In particular, there were three ministers, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Tsironis and Mr. Apostolos, who was here earlier. Furthermore, the Neapoli area of Laconia, in which thousands of acres of crops were destroyed, has not been declared firefighting. I'm telling you an unfavourable example. In 2007 my special homeland, Mani, had catastrophic fires, like all of Greece. In ten days, a firefight was declared firefighting. Where are we today? The main functions of the state have been destroyed - read 'KATHMERINA' today - and you are responsible exclusively for this. Don't transfer responsibility. You rule. You need to grow up. You have to understand that the thoughtful attitude and this policy that you had towards an entire party, which on the eve of the 15th century put aside the personal party interest and supported a prospect of the country's European course - and today I hypocritically hypocritically pretend you come and give us up - will lead you where Solon said thousands of years ago to Lydon King Krussos, "Zenna before the end was hacking". May you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Buras Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will go directly to a controversial article in Article 13, and if there is more time, I will also deal with the general picture of this multi-fashioned plan. Furthermore, for the bill itself, there were detailed positions, both in committee and in plenary, from our rapporteur, Nikos Panagiotopoulos, from our Parliamentary representative, Mr Brutsis, from our President, Vangelis Meimarakis, and from so many of our chosen colleagues who have so far spoken or will speak. And I'm going straight to Article 13, because I need to remind those who don't know that he has a special reference to a particular area. And this is the area that I have the honour of representing, together with other colleagues, the Attica Region, what many people say - we do not say it - and the rest. For many and over time, even for the governments - and I have no problem with saying it - it was considered the backyard of Athens, that is, what had to go to Attica, in the good sense of the term, what had to be applied more generally to the Lefkanoped region, and not just, it had to go to Attica. And I'm explaining you understand. The waste management, not only in Attica, which is in Ano Liosia, for decades, is now even referring to other parts of Greece that bring their garbage here, should have been in the Attica Region. I must tell you that 40% of the heavy industry that supports national wealth is in the Attica region. I would remind you of areas such as Elefsina, Aspropyrgos with the largest and heavier industrial units, the industrial areas in Koropi, Keratea with industrial parks and others. There all Greeks had to be facilitated, and more so, the Lefkanopedi, because it is only through this area that the Attica Street passes through. But there is also the international airport of Spata, which serves all of Greece. And you, left-wings, had a lot of sensitivity and protesting years - I listened to it here by the ministers who had paralyzed from any party - because the airport in particular does not pay for a VAT of 500 million. Questions, petition reports, protests, complaints. And now you know what you're doing? All over the world to balance the environment is always recompense - that is - because I don't think anyone is happy to be the airport next to their home, nor to have the trash near them, nor to have this crowded road otherwise very useful on Attica. And in the municipalities that offered their land, they offered their property, do not have their products the quality they had. You mean what I mean, when so many planes land in the very fruitful and from the ancient part of the Mediterraneans. And now Article 13 is coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u407	Why did you do it there then? Let's do it in the mountains.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u408	We did it because it had to be done. Let's go to the national interest, but at the same time, my dear fellow Member, we have predicted and had the reward fees, which you now have on a one-tie-tie-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. That is the unacceptable. I would ask you to read Article 13. I do not know which area each comes from, but this will also be tasted on his back, because major projects are expected. It is expected that in Macedonia gas pipelines will pass through. No good unblemished evils. This, however, is the bad that is created at local level. It owes a credible, serious state to give it the reward it deserves. And that's what we've done all these years and given the reward. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As we give to Ano Liosia a special charge in favour of balancing the environment if you do not know. That is why we have also put a roll-call vote on Article 13. What I would ask the Minister-in-Office to do is as follows. Of course, no one else is present, whereas, life being, many are, articles exist. I congratulate Mr Alexiadis, because all days he was present. Everyone else as tourists went by and not to hear if they were concerned. We and the roll-call vote are taking place. If it is withdrawn, we will also withdraw the roll-call vote. It does not have this government, for the first and second time left, or the enthusiasm to call on the institutions of government. You, as leftists, have always been in favour of these institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u409	Now I was in a meeting with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u410	You have seen them today because they have asked you to see them, Mr Papadopoulos, as we have seen them, but we have been seeing them for a long time. We expect Article 13 to be withdrawn, Minister. I don't want to say how badly it is. I will not say it, but the contradictions it has in paragraph 4, not to read them to you, because I do not have time. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, thank you for putting me down for a moment, because this is a very critical matter. This is a very serious matter, and I would ask the Government to withdraw Rule 13. To call local government organs, CEDEFOP in particular, to discuss with them. I shall table the unanimous decision for the Minutes. They are not all neo-democrats, you know, I imagine, and it is not local.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u411	We got her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u412	I will also table the decision of the CEDEFOP and a unanimous decision of the five municipalities of the particular region around the airport, the people who lost their land and now, for their own land, the state gives them nothing. It tells them 'you won't pay'. Who? Reimbursement fees to the concessionaires. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] A lot has been said about the bill. What I would like to clarify - and it is still dragging - is something that I see in the morning and in the evening shops, is that the New Democracy as a responsible political force, as constantly responsible, as Mr Davakis said, when you were all mining 'EEC and NATO the same union', this fact has put the country in Europe alone. Because this party that belongs to the West and that sap you've all made it, and Andreas Papandreou who then made it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Bourra, let's finish slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u414	He also came to Europe and this free West. Now SYRIZA. You saw Mr. Tsipras' pilgrimages in the United States and well he did. Because you say a memorandum, on August 14th to us our conscience, our national responsibility, our historic obligation, in order to stay what we and Constantine Karamanlis deprived of for Greece, namely that the country should remain in Europe and the euro. As Vangelis Meimarakis said yesterday, we voted for the objectives that Greece should set in order to remain in the euro and in Europe. The measures are yours. The measures you bring them in. You didn't talk to anyone either before or after. Now you'll taste them completely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u415	Mr Papaliou George has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be brief and specific. I will focus on four points, one general political approach, a brief reference to some individual arrangements of the multi-legislative draft, an observation on issues of unconstitutionality and a general proposal to do with legislating in general. The Multifibre Arrangement provides for the implementation of a series of prerequisites for the implementation of the new programming agreement on n. Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 4336/2015/EU and repealing Decision No 4336/2015/EU and repealing Therefore, his vote is a reasonable continuation and political consequence of the adoption of this law. The adoption of the prerequisites is a prerequisite for a positive assessment by the institutions in order to proceed with the recapitalisation of the banks and further to negotiate on the settlement of the public debt. This political necessity is also the reason why SYRIZA votes for the plan. The criticism expressed in relation to the plan, in particular by the opposition parties that had voted in favour of the new programming agreement, shows that their negative attitude, in addition to the logic of contradiction, inconsistency and hypocrisy surrounding it, refers to purely opposition reasons and to the intrinsic desire for the government to fail, in this case, the national attempt to overcome the crisis, for which, through its policies, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have sole responsibility. The second point. It is well known that the prerequisites contained in the new programme agreement are not an ideological choice of the SYRIZA Government and Members, since they have been the result of a painful compromise that has been blackmailed, but after a tough negotiation. In any case, it remains to be established whether it will be economically effective. Indicative of two arrangements there are doubts in this respect. One is the new approach to the provision of a hundred instalments, which is concerned that collection will also be reduced and many debtors will be out of control with all the risks that this exit entails. The other concerns the abolition of the scheme for EFF members, freelance professionals who were given the opportunity to choose to classify themselves in lower classes of insurance in order to be able to pay their insurance contributions. However, during the debate on the plan, the government, by negotiating to the last minute with the institutions, and in particular with the social and social actors, proves, firstly, that it does not deal with the prerequisites in a dogmatic way but seeks and achieves, as far as possible, the most favourable solutions for the citizens. It is known that the increase in the rent tax has been abolished. On the other hand, it demonstrates that in the context of its general policy, it is able to announce that the new arrangements to be adopted will be reviewed, after all the parameters are weighted in order to cancel or mitigate any uneconomic and anti-social nature of these arrangements. In the context of the insurance bill under way, there will be a composition of insurance contributions with income and the pension for uninsured over-ages in the form of a benefit. The government's treatment of anti-constitutional issues posed by Repression has been documented and constructive. In general, however, tax and insurance arrangements must be carefully dealt with in order to comply with the Constitution so that they do not subsequently fall within the courts and, furthermore, there is no need to seek equivalent measures in the future. Let us not forget the decision of the Council of State 2289/2015, which considered that the 2012 pension cuts are unconstitutional. Finally, I want to make a general comment on how to legislate. The multi-legislative draft includes chapters with individual arrangements so that it is not possible to seek and find a single authority, since its provisions relate in substance to issues of several different ministries. It is understandable that the prerequisites for the Multifibre Arrangement should be voted on so that there is a positive assessment by the institutions of what this entails. But this point-of-the-art legislation must be stopped and, above all, systematic registration and codification of legislation in all areas, particularly in the tax, insurance and pension sector, so that both citizens and households and investors operate within one of them in a sound, comprehensible and stable regulatory environment. This project is a major part but also a condition for the country's institutional and productive reconstruction. Let us hope that this new insurance bill will be the beginning of this process!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u417	Mr. President, does everyone have ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u418	Mr. Papaliou, you said you would be brief but you exceeded your time by two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u419	You have your sympathy, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u420	Mr Davakis, do not cause now, because the tolerance of the Bureau has been to everyone so far. Please. Please. And to you we have been tolerant of ourselves as the Bureau. Don't give up on us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u421	You left me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u423	Mrs Anna-Michel Asmakopoulou and will follow the position of Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mrs Ilias Kasiri.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Mr Tsipras' election speech in Kalamata on 12 September 2015, Mr Tsipras said: "I came with the dilemma that we are ending or ending on 20 September. I'm sure victory will be for SYRIZA next Sunday. It will be of our people'. First of all, I can assure you that no one disputes SYRIZA's victory in the elections. You have taken your second chance, and even so you have taken it very lightly and in accordance with the conditions you have asked for. Alone with the Independent Greeks. And so that's how we live the episode second time left. Of course, to be fair, Mr. Tsipras claimed: "I never said I would finish you. What I have said is that we will end with the old'.' And because I am a well-meaning man, I accept that this was a clarification from Mr. Tsipras's side. Although the truth is true, I am tabling the link in the minutes in the video where Mr Tsipras said: 'We are ending them or ending them'. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But I accept this clarification and I move on to my position on the bill to see if, with this first bill, we are ending with the "old", if there is something new that comes and finally who ends who. The new one, which came in is the Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos and we have new cuts, new taxes, new sacrifices for Greeks and Greeks and, at the moment, also, on the basis of the budget you have submitted, what ends is the prospect of developing the country in 2016, ends the prospect of having surpluses, ends the path of reducing unemployment, because according to the "ERGANI" system, we have a - Mr Brutsis, correct with - a new unemployment record. Thirteen thousand three people unemployed in September, and from what I hear in October, we have a new record. I know that you will say to me 'Yes, yes, you voted for the memorandum' and because I want us to finish with this argument - my colleagues have argued very well - that we, the old one, have voted not to leave Europe. We did not negotiate the content. You negotiated it and you are negotiating it now. We, if you wish, accepted that the only way to avoid the catastrophe that had occurred in the Greek economy on the "first time left", the only way to leave the capital controls that you put, was to come to an agreement and, indeed, we said: "Get it quickly. The account's up.' We authorized you to go and negotiate the deal. When you lost your parliamentary majority, yes, we supported you to keep the country in Europe. We did this but we never negotiated, we never accepted these measures. These measures that come with this multi-project that will come to close the first evaluation, you've brought them. You and me, so we can get it over with! You are, moreover, the 'new'. So let's go see ten new things in this bill. New one. Article 1. Gradually increasing the retirement threshold to sixty-seven. New second. Article 2. New taxation, in fact, retroactively, on incomes from non-recoverable assets. New third. Setting a hundred doses. It's gone easier now. Also, the public can enter and change the number of instalments, depending on the income the debtor considers to have or its condition. Article 5. New fourth. Aprons for criminalisation of tax obligations. Article 8. New fifth. Do not be carried out by the Court of Auditors on the expenditure of the State, on the expenditure of the EBRD and on other legal persons. Article 10. New sixth. Revenue from local government agencies. Article 13. Mr. Buras analyzed it before. I'm sure this should be withdrawn. New Seventh. The drugs. To abolish the thresholds on the prices of medicinal products. We'll be worried if we find cheap drugs on the market. That's all we need! Article 15. New eighth. Repeal of the grant of a pension of EUR 260 to uninsured OGA over-ages. Article 21. New ninth. Abolition of the option of selecting lower premiums for lawyers, engineers, doctors. Article 21. New tenth. Retroactively, the extension of the deadline for the subsidiary funds to be converted into private legal persons, namely police officers, firefighters, porters. So this is the news of the plan. And I would like to add that, having read the findings of the Katrugalo Committee, which is working on insurance, I very much fear that other new, new pension cuts and pension cuts are coming. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that Mr. Tsipras may have gone to Kalamata with the dilemma "We end them or end us", but now is the time of the account. And I fear that under the responsibility of Mr Tsipras the only thing that ends with measures, such as the ones in the plan, is the Greek people. However, you should know that I came to the House today without any dilemma. I am voting against the plan to finish with Mr. Tsipras, let's see nothing really new in this place! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u426	We have seen the Minister - who is present at the moment - somewhat celebrated, because HNPH is maintained as it is. And that's a cause of celebration for the SYRIZA - ANEL government! At this point I would like to ask a simple question. How many Greeks do you think they will be able to pay the existing ENVIRONMENT with the objective values of 2007 when the objective values of the real estate have literally been paid off? And you call on the citizen to pay with the objective values of an eight-year-old back! That is impossible, something we have said on several occasions. This memorandum will not be paid by the Greek people. We can't get the fund out. You will come here after a few months and you will understand that we are absolutely right. Because remember the notorious oil case. The oil tax has increased and instead of the tax increase to make public revenues, it has entered 200,000 euros! In other words, do you not have common sense to see that there is absolutely no case for all these measures to come out and make public revenues, so that you will then go and pay to their international loan sharks and pimps in Greece? Previously, the Minister responsible celebrated and on the subject of the Lagard list, saying 'no, okay, it's all right, we won't have limitations and we'll be checking the lists'. So I will tell him that the previous parliamentary term - not a while ago, not even months - was Mr Nicoludis, the Minister responsible for anti-corruption, who was not from the SYRIZA and had told some truths about parliamentary control, to a timely question asked by the Golden Dawn. The Minister responsible at that time said that the ILO does not have any opportunity at all to proceed to thoroughly review the Lagard list and the rest of the foreign lists, where it hides too much "black" political money. Same with offshore companies! And you know very well how many offshore companies there are in the Cayman Islands and other exotic destinations, where the "black" millions of political corruption and hatred are hidden. And now we see businessmen going to interrogators and to prison, while no political person goes for all of this, because the law on the responsibility of Ministers, the famous Venizelos law, has dropped it. We see, that is, the comicotragic. Minister Majmarakis must go to prison the businessman who has given the hatred and not go to the politicians who have taken them because they have been banned, he says, all this on the basis of the law - a scandal about the responsibility of the ministers, which you have certainly dismissed. You have forgotten what you have said before, that you will abolish it, as you have forgotten about the deletion of Greece's illegal debt, as you do not dare to say a word about Greece's mortgage and go by saying. I would mention that because I saw the relevant Minister present. I would also like to point out to him that we have already tabled a timely question, which we will bring to parliamentary scrutiny next week and we will ask for very specific answers on the issue of lists. We will ask you to answer us - prepare yourself, that is, from now on - what timetable you have, that is to say, when the public will receive money from these grand-dollars, grand-dollars from the HSBC Bank of Switzerland. If you remember, when the pre-examination committee took place on the Lagard list, we on Golden Dawn had made a major point that Falticini should come to speak by teleconferencing, even via Skype, because he knew the secrets of the Lagard list. So Faltsiani is coming today to tell the prosecutors - on duty, not on the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - that the great secret is in the accounts that are empty. Because through these accounts, millions of people were stolen from offshore companies, known public life factors. And within these are many politicians, like Faltsiani said. Yesterday the Golden Dawn asked some questions here in the House. He asked some questions in an intense style. Since it is about financial scandals, since it is about buying television frequencies to unknown factors, we have raised tons and asked questions. Of course, no one has answered us on the basis of the substance. And I watched in the channels, in the 20:00s, talk again about trabbing and the violence of the Golden Dawn. What's violence? Is the questions that we ask in Parliament a question of violence? One responded to who was ultimately sold to the '902' frequency? Because looking for the answer inside the internet, I found a Pakistani. Obviously, it is about a strawman of a Greek, because of course a Greek businessman is behind this whole story! We've asked more questions. We didn't smuggle anyone. We asked where Michalakis' million is. Michelakis allegedly has eight hundred thousand euros declared in the 2012 ‘undertaking’ which he had invested in bonds in ‘BLACKROCK’, ‘JP MORGAN’. Another million that 'forgoted' it. Where did a university professor get that kind of money? So well they pay the Greek universities? Because I'm talking about a university, you remember very well that at the University of Crete, they were smiling. A group of teachers, in which Mr. Michelakis was also called by the prosecutor, was called by the justice... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u427	No, Michelakis. Stacey.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u428	Stastakis, excuse me. Mr. Michelakis is in New Democracy and he was asked to waive immunity from the prosecutor, because he was "taken" from Palli, the shipowner who was supposed to finance the Golden Dawn, and at random...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u429	Now you're talking about Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u430	You're right. I'm going to continue with Stathakis, but Michelakis today, I'm reading on the Internet that he's at "Epsilon", on the channel that the KKE sold the frequency to a businessman and they don't tell us who he is. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We're talking about scandals catching from one end of the political system to the other. So let me come back to Stathakis. Michaelis is a journalist, not a university professor. The lifting of Stathakis' immunity was asked by the prosecutor responsible for a felony, because a financial crime is a crime when the money is not too much but when the money is too much - the Minister forgets the millions, it is a lot of money! - It's a felony. That's why this gentleman never gave a reason for justice. Today, after all these revelations, after his assumption that he "forgot" to declare a million euros, he must immediately resign and if he does not give up, the government should resign and then go to a criminal court, because it is a criminal offence, to forget to say such huge, astronomical sums. However, there is a Commission'subject to you', which again excludes the Golden Dawn. We see in this committee representatives from parties with less parliamentary representation from the Golden Dawn. They have created a new law - so now, when I want to cover fraud and corruption, I make a law, as Venizelos created the Law on the Responsibility of Ministers and everything is good and blossom in Greece! - and the Golden Dawn - and I denounce this - is excluded from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, so that we cannot see where there are irregularities in the 'before' political factors, so that we do not take all this out in the forum, because there is a symposium, a conspiracy of silence in this House, which certainly promotes the system by means of this alteration of the law on the Committees 'from the point of view'. There are too many cases. Personally, just before I went to prison, I had made a document in the committee responsible for the infamous Babis Athanasios, New Democracy, who had an undeclared property of three hundred square feet. This is where the other one forgot, now about the three hundred square blocks of Babi's will we talk? But one and a half years now and with a SYRIZA government - ANEL, nothing has happened at all. How does this committee finally work? I'm closing up with the bill, with all the tax measures you impose. Don't expect the Greek state to be led somewhere. Of course, the Greek state has money to share. Now I read online that he shared 1,412,000 euros to the parties only for the elections, but of course the Golden Dawn. We tell you not to give that money to the parties. That money won't be needed for the parties. We made it for ourselves, they say. We didn't get anything from the state, we put our hand in the pocket, and we paid our expenses for the elections. That is what you will do, if and, of course, if you have this left-hand sensitivity to the problems of the Greek citizen. Finally, I would like to inform the House that the Golden Dawn is making a request for a roll-call vote mainly on the articles for which no roll-call vote was requested from the other parties. These articles are two neural articles. One is the pharmaceutical industry of Greece, which, like any other sector in the Greek industry, is intended to literally dismantle it. The other one is about the single account to which you intend to lock down the funds of the Local Government bodies, the money that you will receive from the municipalities to give them directly to the International Monetary Fund, so that you can pay back the illegal debts you have condemned Greece to pay completely illegally without ever having to pay audit of the public debt of the country. Finally, those who are primarily favoured by this bill are, of course, the concessionaires, who will no longer pay to the municipalities. Who are we talking about? This is where we call names. Money will be saved by Attica Street, that is, Bobolas, money will be saved by the person managing the Athens International Airport, that is, the Germans of "HOCHTIEF", all of whom are the promoters of Greek public life. On the basis of this law you are voting on, they will save too many millions, which the Greek people will pay for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u431	I would like to inform the House that the requests made by the Members of Parliament have already been made to the Bureau. From 18.30 a.m. they'll start their speeches, with possible intervals. The Bureau therefore strongly urges all Members to be consistent in our time in six minutes. The Bureau has given it a tolerance, it always gives it a tolerance. However, I must inform you of this, because the honourable Members will then complain that they are not given the floor. Mr. Simeon Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by listening to many of my fellow speakers in the opposition, one makes the easy point that most of the people are denouncing a crime in here at the same time as saying innocent people of crime, as these speakers, at least - at least most - have suddenly appeared in the political scene, as if it were not at the forefront of governance for forty years, as if they were not responsible for the drainage of both the economy and society. They conquered the measures of the agreement by calling for change and withdrawal. But are these measures not the result of the agreement that we adopted together in the previous period? Haven't we read them and voted for them? Is this not the result of the commitments we made to save the country, the economy and society? Didn't we know when we voted on them what we'd soon be happy to approve? Of course, this is not an agreement as we would really like it, of course, and there are also unfair and painful and substantive measures and, of course, it is also the result of a regular retreat in the face of the pressures and blackmails that we have received. This agreement, however, is not just the measures we are debating today, it is not just the negative ones that exist and have been heard. Is it not at the same time an agreement, which also provides for the launch of the debate directly on debt write-down, which ensures our financial needs for the next three years, which provides for the lowest primary surpluses, saving us again about EUR 20 billion, which has an annual average budgetary burden of EUR 2.9 billion compared with EUR 17 and 10,7, respectively, of the first and second memorandums? Is it not an agreement that allows us to reintroduce the question of regulating labour relations and reintroducing collective bargaining? Is it not an agreement that creates the margin for seeking alternative proposals to alleviate our socially weak fellow citizens? No one can ignore and no one can forget the fact that for months we have fought, we have tried for the best. As we cannot, of course, forget the encouragements that existed all this time from the Opposition to the Government "give an agreement to sign it and calm it" or the encouragements to the lenders "pastly, Daiselblum" and "Grown, despite the money". These were the encouragements of a "superior" and "superior national attitude". It was the attitude of those who are today accusing us of this agreement, which I repeat and remind you that they voted for it. Of course, as I said before, among the measures, there are quite negative ones to be seen and we will see them, with an attempt to find a balanced measure with a social mark, in order to alleviate the weak and to stop the easy negative propaganda that has been intensified over the last two - three days. It goes on enough, even for those points that the ministers have already made the necessary clarifications. Already, for many things, improvements have been made both from this Step and a few more minutes ago we heard the whole truth being hidden. Let me remind you of a few. It's about abolishing the pension from the OGA to the uninsured older ages. The abolition - to remind you - of the provisions of the Treaty. It does not concern the whole, as it has just heard from here, of the beneficiaries to date. Unfortunately, it is a matter of concern to the expatriate pallinists. They're the ones who're being affected right now. It is a negative point for this category of citizens, but for whom the ministers have clarified that the possibility of regulation will be examined immediately or with improvements to the n. For the purposes of Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 4093/2012, as regards the strict conditions laid down by that law, either by recognising their pre-service abroad or by covering other categories of uninsured persons through the minimum guaranteed income. I was informed today that in my special homeland Volos, it is strongly heard that the small allowance given to children with disabilities is being cut. That's a lie. There is no reference in all the text of the measures. And for selecting the lower insurance class for self-insurers, clarifications have been given. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to point out that it can be difficult to implement the agreement with measures painful, as I said at the beginning, but it is an agreement that we will implement, trying to make any improvements that can be made. So let some not be rushed down to the end of the attempt on a different social policy. We call on them to see the great picture, the picture of climate change and gradually the correlations in Europe. To see the different policy we intend to follow in Greece, with the cut-off of abscesses that kept the country and society captive and established for decades. To realise that the withdrawal tactics by signing the agreement leave ground for a management of the terms in a different direction. To trust the Government that not only can it sincerely manage the new European reality but it can widen the breaches it has created, by exploiting any different attitude recorded between different European states or different European political forces. Let the Vice-Presidents finally stop talking about a change of opinion. Let them stop listing the "how many times left" because they will get tired of counting. To conclude, as the recent elections have shown, citizens trust this Left, who know they will do what they can for society, from this Right, who know they will do what they want in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u433	Mrs Fotini Vakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Let me inform you that after Mrs Vakis, Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltaris, Mr Shahinides and Mr Koukoutsi, the Minister will take the floor. He's already asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u434	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u435	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u436	Thank you. In order to facilitate honourable Members and respond to what has been said on various issues, I know that it is not in parliamentary practice but a statement of my own has been prepared which has been posted at www.minfin.gr. I will give it to the Secretariat to share it with the honourable Members. Not to enter the Minutes, of course, but it is information material for what has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u437	To testify to the Minutes and any one of the Members who wishes can take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u438	Mr President, has he said he wants another Minister to speak? So we can make our schedule, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u439	According to our programming here, about 6 o'clock will take the floor, Mr. Apostleu. From there, I haven't been asked by another minister. It has already been requested and I said - you have probably heard it, because you were here - that from 18: 30' and then we have been asked to enter the proceedings of the chairmen of Parliament's groups. But don't waste time. It's four the number, starting time from 18: 30 and then. Whether they're consistent or not, I don't know. That's why I informed the House before. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the government is bringing to the vote a number of prerequisites as they arise from the Agreement of 14 August. Obviously, this process involves difficult measures and none of us can celebrate in this context. However, we are listening to all these days parts of the Greater and the Elassian Resistance beating us and accusing us of all science. I would therefore like to ask a question which, in my view, is essential. What do the ladies and gentlemen of counter-population propose to us? What are they asking us to do? Do they not want to secure a stable financial framework for the country? Do they not want the banks to be recapitalised in time? Is it not their priorities to discuss the problem of Greek public debt? Didn't you tell us anything at all and we could sign and bring you anything? You know, it's not the EAW civil war, like ruthless and embracing on historical memory a party MP claimed. Civil war was the climate that you sparked ahead of the referendum on July 5, when Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras appealed to the popular verdict. You know, if things separate us, these are meanings such as 'classmark','social solidarity', 'humanist crisis', 'lighting', 'rights', 'foreign', 'immigrant','refugee'. These are our differences. It's arrogant differences.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u441	You're very sensitive socially!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u442	SYRIZA a few weeks ago asked the above questions to the Greek people, to the citizens themselves. Society responded clearly. What was the verdict of 20 September, ladies and gentlemen? The citizens, knowing of the difficult shells we have to go through, have asked the government to go ahead with implementing the agreement and to pave a new way out of the committee and the memoranda. This clear message has been received and with this message we are on the way. The deal with lenders involves difficult points, where we have not been able to change the agenda. Unfortunately, we are still faced with some of these, such as a series of charges on property taxation or a restrictive application of positive social provisions on insurance and welfare. But even in these difficult areas, as we have all seen, the government and the majority Members of the majority have not stopped fighting for negotiation throughout the entire parliamentary debate. Hard topics, such as the retrospective increase in the taxation of rents, have changed. Issues about what will happen with unrealistic rents have been settled in a positive social direction, while at the same time the government continues to fight for a fairer tax system. It was also the first time that in such a difficult bill of prerequisites the government worked with absolute transparency and constructive disposition. The bill was consulted. The competent committees were asked to present their views to dozens of social bodies, while all the Ministers analysed their provisions of competence in detail and with the availability of real solutions. At this point I would like to ask the following: when did a government operate in such a clean and honest manner in five years of the memoranda? The answer is 'never'. The PASOK and the New Democracy governments have never used the parliamentary procedure constructively to change the arrangements put forward by lenders as prerequisites. On the other hand, the provisions were to be voted on in an article and 'fast track' procedures were voted in a few hours. That's the reality. These differences are known by the Greek people and for these reasons it has chosen SYRIZA for the driver's position at the wheel of the country's governance. But, apart from the standpoint of counterpopulation, the question posed by everyone and first of all by us is one. Can we be happy with these measures? The answer is quite clear. Obviously, we're not happy. Obviously also a number of restrictive regulations of the bill contradict both our programme and our previous legislation. One cannot welcome the restrictive application of the overtime pension threshold. One cannot triumph to increase the retirement age limits. Since, however, our task is to continue to fight, we will not stop negotiating these issues and try with parallel actions and an alternative programme to alleviate these difficulties for the benefit of society. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has chosen to face great difficulties and fight for the change of balance in Greece and Europe. Our worthy reports, our ideological arsenal and our social targeting were and remain on the left. As much as some try to cover their own responsibilities forty years behind our own difficulties, they will not succeed. The government will continue to walk by the Greek people, because it is a living piece of it. Together we will proceed to create the conditions for the discharge of supervision and austerity, so that the Greek debt can be made sustainable. We will not stop, within and outside the country, promoting fair social demands and thus changing the correlations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my speech on one point: a few months ago we were all told that we are not going to achieve anything, that we are not going to be heard, that we are in vain. Today, however, the struggle of SYRIZA and the government has become a point of reference for all the progressive powers of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u443	Ms. Vaki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u444	I'll be a minute, Mr. President. In all countries political and social movements against austerity are growing, conservative forces are now gaining adversarial awe. In these successes, we will continue to build as much as we need to hurt and fight. With more progressive alliances, we will fight for a Europe of justice and social solidarity. So we move forward with this strategic horizon and always compass the vindication of the difficult, difficult, but also beautiful struggles of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mrs Efstathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after so many days in the consultation of this bill, and of course in the Chamber, with the views of the Members and the Ministers, I think it has understood the grande on what a realistic basis this government has put this debate on. I think that all these days we have had a lot of discussion about what is going to happen with the hundreds of doses, because this government has legislated them, while the New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état has referred them to the bells. We are also talking about the need not to eradicate positive arrangements for retired people, professionals and retired for the same reason. We are also talking about the Lagard list, because this government has made it a central political issue and a border between the people and the cliffry when New Democracy and PASOK had it in their drawers. We are talking about the insurance and tax system that employs our rural world. I cannot, however, remind you that New Democracy and PASOK over time have dismantled the primary sector, have faithfully served the Common Agricultural Policy and, of course, the discussions on the transatlantic alliance. Unfortunately, however, the insurance funds have also been cleared. We are now committed to a fairer tax treatment for the main employers, but also to the removal, with the new insurance policy, of the unfavourable charges imposed by the new agreement on farmers. We will find the solution, as the Minister responsible said. Be sure! We are also talking about how the Greek public debt will be restructured, so that it becomes socially and economically viable, because this government everywhere claims to be declining, calling it non-viable. But we are also talking about the imposition of extreme, neoliberal policies by lenders - partners, because New Democracy and PASOK have led us out of markets, while this government is trying - and has tried to reject them in terms of social justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is another step towards the implementation of the agreement with the lenders of the country. As we have stressed since the first time that the agreement on a debate in Parliament and a resolution has been reached, it includes interventions that we consider necessary, but also measures of a fundamental nature imposed by creditors. Neoliberal Opposition and, in particular, the New Democracy party, criticise the contents of the bill. However, the parties themselves and the financial establishment that served over the years, which designed a parasitic import and consumption economy, uncontrolled lending, tax evasion, tax evasion, scandals, such as the Exchange, SIEMENS, structured bonds, submarines, Batopedi, the job jungle and others, together with other neoliberal parties, were the reactionary front of 'yes' in the referendum. In fact, it worked as the fifth pillar of creditors to sign an agreement on as unfavourable terms as possible to keep the 'left parenthesis' project alive. On 20 September they received their answer. And now, of course, he's had a whim, but of course not for ideological reasons. On 12 July, therefore, the lenders wanted to impose a complete overthrow of all legislative arrangements between January and July, because they were in breach of the memorandum policies pursued. Unfortunately, they had "yes" parties who were blackmailing for our unconditional submission. We fight every day to prevent this planning, where possible. We see it until the last minute and in this bill on rents, pensions and so on. SYRIZA, therefore, does not claim full ownership - as has been heard by too many colleagues and by the Prime Minister himself - of this economic policy programme. This government is considering countermeasures to design for the Greek economy a sustainable recovery with a social intent in favour of labour forces. For the social security system we have to deal directly with short-term financial risks of sustainability. At the same time, we are aiming to support by significantly reducing undeclared work from 25% today and increasing the collection of contributions. Our country has been under international financial control since 2010 and has no hope of a sustainable recovery until potential investors have discounted the suffocating commission and the unstable fiscal environment, as long as unemployment is at explosive rates, which significantly reduces domestic consumption, as long as it is not financed by the European Union with a brave Public Investment Programme that will be excluded from the calculation of the public deficit. We will not be looking forward to this situation that we are experiencing to manage against the people with bad narratives, a type of success story, but we will always capture it in its accuracy as the first steps towards its progressive transformation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Members, all of us who support the government and its legislative initiatives, have to contribute to the existence of the necessary treaty for the progressive overcoming the crisis that is no more than democratic political stability in terms of dignity and social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mrs Georgopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the next speaker, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-six students and four educational sessions from the 10th Larissa Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. John Shahinides has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u448	My good evening to the students who came to attend another parliamentary session. As you can see, children - I address you, because the others, I see, are not worthy - Parliament and parliamentary control, which we are supposed to exercise and get paid by your parents for this very thing, is a total debasing of the constitutional arch. Every time a Golden Dawn MP speaks, they leave. They'll learn to respect us if they want to have our respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u449	Let's applaud the kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u450	And I continue: we have heard that yesterday we have exercised a violence which, as our Parliamentary representative said, was the questions we have put to us. If these are the questions and questions we are going to ask as a People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, you can be sure that we have many weapons and a huge arsenal. Golden Dawn is the only party that truly expresses the national people's will and we vote against the plan and its implementation. We were told forty-eight prerequisites. Some of these are in today's consultation and in the committees that we have discussed in the past few days. Our question is as follows: How many other prerequisites will come after the forty-eight prerequisites? However, because, as Golden Dawn, we have learned not to blame anyone, which we cannot blame on the Prime Minister is this: remember very well, honourable Members, that he had set up seven hundred thousand new jobs. Indeed, the man didn't lie. He did so, except that these seven hundred thousand jobs were three hundred thousand young Greeks who emigrated to Germany, a hundred fifty thousand to the United States, a hundred fifty thousand to the United Kingdom and another hundred thousand to Australia. Thank you so much! It solved the unemployment problem in Greece! But I have not heard the rest of the Members mention the measures they will impose through these consultations, as far as farmers are concerned. And we're talking about the primary production sector, we're talking about the real development machine in this country. You are punishing them, as you have punished our industry, the professional sector. You're taxing, you're taking insurance measures, which are inconsistent. So did you ask a farmer - from what I see the Ministerial Council is missing - who has twenty acres, whether he can pay every two months or every month, who want to do so, his insurance contribution? What can you do? Sell their fields to the nostrils who have five hundred and a thousand acres. It is impossible today for a farmer who grows either by mechanical means or manually a small area of land to cope with it. What will they be forced to do? To create groups of five people, of which one will pay the insurance contribution and should be erected to everyone else. You're removing the oil tax. Do you know how much oil a farmer needs to carry out his production? No one in this Chamber has spoken of the compensation that farmers should have already had from the Russian embargo. You still owe them some money from the previous compensation. And no one, but no one has given an answer about when the next ones will be taken. Anyway, take care of the problems that have arisen in our homeland since they were born. We as Golden Dawn are open, and we can even help you. There are three simple ways to solve the problems. The first - and easy - is to locate a problem. The second is to show it up. The third and most important, however, - something you cannot do, because you do not have a face to go to the countryside - is to ask the farmers themselves and every business sector how you need to solve the problems, to take proposals from the professional sectors themselves. You're talking about growth. For what growth? Is it possible for a serious businessman to come to invest in a country that does not have a stable fiscal framework? You know, over the last two years, the Treasury has sent over a thousand Circuits to the accountants. One accountant, if he does not pass two seminars a month, will not be able to cope with his work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You're talking about bank recapitalisation. Let me ask: aren't banks private? Why should a private company be recapitalised while you could put that money into real growth and the real economy? As a result of time I do not have time to do so, I will report to you very quickly, and I believe that they deserve your attention. We have heard Mr Majmarakis feel proud of the ENPIA, an ENPIA imposed by the New Democracy, an ENPI that was proclaiming that today's conflict will be abolished, but an ENPIA, which should essentially not exist. And the reasons are two and unique: When a man builds a property you know very well that for the money he has used, he has already been taxed. Why are you imposing a tax on already taxed money? And let's go to another piece, one last, and I'll close, Mr. President. INVITATION with regard to people who have taken loans from the banks, should it not be paid proportionately? If I make a loan contract with the bank, and I've paid 10% of the loan, why shouldn't I pay 10% of HISBIA and 90% of the bank, since I don't own the property? Why don't banks pay what they're responsible for? In conclusion, I would like to refer to the capital controls, which have really destroyed the remaining professional sector and not just. I will ask the main ministers - I believe they are following my speech and other competitors, although they are missing, rather from outside, on television - if it is legal that they will not let us manage this money and if there is no human rights violation. With what right do you commit money that we have made with our sweat and our blood and you want to manage them as you want? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u451	Mr Koukoutsis has the floor from the Golden Dawn, and then the Minister for Rural Development Mr Apostolos will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. With what heart to talk when all that's happened is beyond us? There are the things that we see here in this Chamber and that are blurring your mind, what is happening. Did we lose everything? Did we lose hope? Did we lose faith, our humanity? Did we lose our orientation as a nation? In addressing the supposed left of humanity, of hope, of justice, of supposedly equality, of costs and of all the other bubbles he proposed, I would remind her that in previous elections he went to the polls on grounds of the hikery, with thousands of promises and in parallel with poverty and unemployment to drown the Greeks. And what finally happened? Personal aspirations and pursuits, scales, morbidity and left stride! What about the people? The proud youth? Old age? The farmers? The workers? The nation's backbone? All these people got the flags, voters ready for everything. And yet, some have failed in these elections. The eight thousand killed by suicides, the hundred fifty thousand, the two thousand young people who have been hosted, some thousands of homeless people, some who run through the piles and who with their heads are unaware we had elections. The "first time on the left" decided to save the poor by making them the poorest! Classic socialist, Marxist recipe! The measures, ladies and gentlemen, will not be over. There's gonna be more to come. Every three and a little bit, we'll need more, because the numbers don't come out. And then the solution will finally come, the final solution. Mr. Tsipras says he was blackmailed, succumbed for our own good, but he'll fight for the best. Bullshit! Bullshit, bullshit! [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] First, he has signed that even to be passed, he must get permission from Mr. Shoeble. And secondly, when they know he's subjecting to extortion, then they have no reason to be stopped by the blackmailers. Others rule and you all know it here! The further recession, 200% of the debt in relation to GDP, unemployment, GDP reduction, the whole of the memorandum, will lead the country back to the dilemma of a new memorandum or negligent bankruptcy. And at some point the exit will seem and it will actually be the only solution. But is there life after the euro? Of course there is. And after bankruptcy? So many times our country has come to these limits. And finally, let's see how we deal with the betrayal of our property mortgage for a debt that is now impossible to pay off. The objective result confirms a historical political truth: The tough measures go better than the so-called 'progressive' - those who define themselves as left-wing, progressive - socialist governments. This is because the trade unions are more closely controlled and the view is spreading to society that measures - listen to them! - they're a historical necessity. And it is a different need for a 'progressive' government to invoke it from a conservative one. It becomes a little more convincing - to say it - and it makes it easier to cancel any reactions. That's what the Tsipras government did. He built a memorial speech for many years. It has brought together a large part of society that has been hard hit by the first two memoirs. It was not based on a convincing alternative plan, however, on a new development model that would produce even a small recovery. You appealed exclusively to the anger of the weak, and you promised what the audience wanted to hear without a sign of morality. The only pursuit was the acquisition of power. The people have stolen Mr Tsipras' story: 'We have fought for it, but we have had all the beasts in front of us'. The red flags passed, Berlingwer, Caligin, Marce, socialism with the human face, ECON Alice, for us oldest, and social transformation. Only the party of SYRIZA would be able to enter the forefront and lead a new memorial front with more progressive terms and designs. The Greek economy has sinked even deeper, but who cares about numbers in a European banana that no one is struggling only for his ass and power? The government has given all the status tests and passed with excellentness. It can now be considered a reliable and willing force. Since, from its opposition past, however, some Marxist remnants were left, which insulted the aesthetics of the strong, colonialists, and made sure he sent them out and held elections. This people paid for their crimes with the above. And he was your only ally. And yet, you betrayed him in the most appalling way, having put the tombstone in every prospect of posting every Greek production activity, sinking into medium-sized citizens and businesses. In addition, you make statements that cause the public feeling, mocking on the essence of Greeks who are asked to pay the price of your aristocratic old age. Mr Famelos said in the past few days that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group estimates that the plan does not include overtax measures or hard. So, a nail doesn't burn on the bored left, on the state side. What is it? The old PASOK! This is SYRIZA today. The nail does not burn on the bored state-runners on the left for the additional suffering they load on the backs of the tested Greek people. But the mockery also has a limit, and this is what SYRIZA is over it today. So what does the Greek people have to expect? What's his hope? What's his perspective? What are you afraid of? Is the wet man afraid of rain? What are you afraid of? What scares the homeless, the retired who gets 300, 400 euros? When will we be with a plucking head with the wings down, depressing, fatalists? We have become razors, ladies and gentlemen, this people. Understood? We're the same. We nationalists, however, have a great deal of difference. I and my competitors will tell our children and our grandchildren: 'No, man, I did not worship!'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Venizelos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, a central political question in the debate on the bill is why the parties to the democratic pro-European opposition, while voting on the agreement of 12 July, refuse to vote on specialisation and implementation measures contained in the bill. I would therefore like to have clarified the political context of this process, but also those that are going to follow. Ladies and gentlemen, we voted in July and August on the agreement of 12 July, voting in favour of protecting the country from the policy of SYRIZA and ANEL. We have voted to protect the country from the ideologies and mistakes of the Tsipra - Kammenos government. We voted in July and August to avoid Grexit. We have voted to end the flirt with the drachma, with the parallel payment system and with the comeco-trained scenarios that have been revealed in recent months. We actually voted to cancel the anti-immemorial lies and illusions of the past five years and, above all, to cancel the great illusion of the Thessaloniki programme, the pre-election commitments of SYRIZA in January. We have historically voted to abolish the artificial distinction between a memorandum and an anti-memorandum. We voted for the cancellation and termination of the easy demagogy that brought to the government the strange heir-roll of SYRIZA - ANEL. We voted to disembowel the government from the result of its own referendum that could not be managed. We voted with a sense of national responsibility because the parliamentary majority of the previous SYRIZA had been dismantled, if anyone remembers the previous SYRIZA, the one that existed until a few weeks ago. We voted not because the Tsipra memorandum was necessary and inevitable in January, but because it was unfortunately necessary in July, following the serious damage that Mr Tsipras and his government's policy caused to the country. We voted, calling for national co-operation, calling for a national negotiating team, calling for the immediate processing and promotion of a comprehensive and coherent national reconstruction plan that starts with the implementation of our agreements with partners, but goes beyond these agreements and gives a positive outlook to the economy, society, the nation. Instead of answering these, which were fundamental political preconditions for the future of the country, we saw how SYRIZA perceived the election result, as a triumph leading to a government that is not now heterogeneous, is homogeneous, because there is a common worthy background, but not left, under cynical authority management and nationalistic speech, because this unites SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. The overwhelming victory is 34.5%, 39.2% along with Mr. Kammenos's votes, the smaller majority in the forty-two years of post-population. There has never been a government in this place on such a small electoral basis. Nevertheless, arrogance is also an arrogance, and there is also a strange dialogue with the European partners, who, of course, realise that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is a nice, easy lever for the imposition of tough measures - without resistance, because SYRIZA has been led to the other end - and that can be done with tolerance or support for pro-European democratic counter-population. Our friends and rivals, European socialists and social democrats, would be very pleased if we used PASOK and Potami as a bridesman to lead SYRIZA to the paradise of European social democracy, that is to say to understand the place traditionally expressed by the forces of the middle space in Greece, the progressive middle space, the centre-left, the progressive centre. Except things are complicated. It is not easy for someone who does not live the Greek reality and its contradictions to understand what SYRIZA really is, how many contradictions it maintains in its new electoral base and in its new parliamentary group. And, of course, it is very difficult to see what the political plan is, not the national reconstruction plan, but the political power management plan: it does not exist. The country will be dragged dangerously without prospects. And what we must have said in this Chamber with a strong voice is that if things develop so that the threatening Grexit scenarios that Mr Tsipras and his Government thought were a weapon against Europeans could come back and it proved to be a threat that, unfortunately, Europe itself has at some point expressed. Do you want to vote for what? That bill and the next one? For the insurance policy, for the taxation of farmers? Who negotiated it, who specialised it, when did we discuss it, in what programming framework, in what political climate of consensus and consensus, with what national perspective? Look, you negotiate with a proverbial incompetence and you only have the expectation of debt restructuring as a refuge. And you believe that behind the implementation of our own policy, the commitments that we received in 2012, you will cover the entire impressive shift that has taken place in recent weeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Madam President. No, you're licking where you spit, but we're not gonna collide in this humiliating process. You'll vote for yourself. After all, we also voted in March on measures which we considered unnecessary, but we voted on them as a sign of good faith, such as the hundred doses. And I warned you - and I said yesterday - that we are voting on them, but when your troika friends force you to clear them up, we will not collide. We are now canceling the measures of a hundred instalments, but the Legislative Content Act has been in force for the major public debtors and, if you remember, the regulation - express ones from which many have benefited pending the setting of the hundreds of doses - has been applied for ten days. These aren't canceled. The measure of general application of the 100 doses is annulled. I told you, now you can make improvements to the bill, but you must ask, why it has been proved that, when there are unilateral initiatives, they are paid with institutional humiliation. This is not only about technical or secondary issues, it also concerns the strategy, it also concerns the debt issue. Where are the bilateral initiatives, the deletion, the International Conference, the Committee on Truth - supposedly - shameful debt? Now we are talking about the present value, the interest rates, the grace period, the repayment period, that is, what we have achieved since '12 and we have finally offered the country a reduction of 90 billion net nominally, i.e. about 45% of GDP, and 100 billion in real present value, which is another 50% of GDP on the basis of Mr Reggling's report which gave publicity two months ago. I wish that the country would also achieve further reductions in net present value. We will contribute, we will help, we will be glad when it happens, but it will be a small percentage of what you have slandered, denounced, broken up, undermined the conscience of the Greek people. Of course, we do not vote for any of your own sloppy and unfair choices of cash panic with false toxic content, because this is the case in 2015, while you have found the country at a positive rate of growth, a primary surplus and a positive employment balance that has slowed down unemployment. Where are the most infamous equivalents to VAT in education, to take the most impressive example? What about all these promises in yesterday's debate on the Court's preventive control and objections to anti-constitutionality? How will the constitutional status of universities and local government be guaranteed? Because I saw Mr Katrugalou's Committee on Wise Men, I would like to add that you are committed to implementing the decisions of the Council of State and of the Court of Auditors that have annulled pension cuts as unconstitutional and you are looking for 2 billion equivalents. And instead of implementing decisions, will you bring in a law that further reduces pensions? With what legal way? I'd like to see that. But this is also a good question for other institutions and powers beyond this Chamber, because the place is not just governed by Parliament, the parties, the government, the political world, it is also governed by justice, the independent authorities, civil society and the private sector. We're all on the nation's ship and we're all on our way to our fate. The reserves of the insurance funds and other legal persons governed by public law by the Minister of Finance in the single account, which is now becoming more integrated institutionalised, what have become of them? What has been placed in flow and in treasury bills of government, which are about 13 billion, what prospects do they have for return? These are cash assets, it is not a long-term investment that had a small annual return, which the insurance funds received in multiples. A hundred billion grant received the insurance funds over the last six years of the crisis. And, of course, the great advantage, the morale, the fight against corruption, where have you assigned it? Not even Mr. Kammenos, who's a hollow brother. You commissioned him to select a member of the right-wing government mechanism, New Democracy, from 2007-2009. Isn't it weird? Isn't it unexplainable? Isn't there something that needs to be explained to the Greek people? What's that? What kind of transformation is he and what is he hiding? And, of course, all this refers to a country that has made the tragic mistake in the last few months of the Tsipras governance - in order to link the economic crisis and management to the fiscal adjustment programme with foreign policy. And now, unfortunately, we must move in defence to prevent very unfavourable developments in our major issues, such as the Aegean and Greek Turkish relations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u455	Mr. Venizelo, I'll leave you twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u456	So it is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that we should be clean. We do not vote in principle, because the government's authority lacks a strategic framework and is harmful to the country. The country has not escaped the danger. It is a great historical mistake that the government rests in the false laurels of an election victory, which has been shaped under very specific conditions. Of course, we are not voting on any of the provisions which are actually a humiliation of the House and a humiliation of the majority in Parliament. Because each and every one of the majority Members knows very well what he said in January, what he said before the July referendum, what he said in elections with contradictory and ambiguous speech and what he is doing now. And we're only in the painful beginning. This is a good opportunity for discussion and strategic reorientation, which is always aimed at national responsibility, which you have so misled and undermined.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u457	Please, because the twelfth is approaching, we have an economy in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u458	Madam President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u459	You're welcome, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Venizelos, I cannot tell you about the legal aspects of debt, for which I am sure you know many more things, but I want to tell you a very simple rule from economic science for countries with a great debt. This rule says that if you have a great deal of debt and need a restructuring, it is a great failure if this restructuring takes place and then you need more restructuring. The big mistake of the PSI was that one week later in all the financial newspapers - 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'WALL STREET JOURNAL' - all economic analysts said they would need a very soon second restructuring. When the debt issue is finally solved and there will be books of economic history for this period, there will be a big chapter that says how the Greek issue was solved and there will be a footnote on the PSI, that there have also been previous failures that have occurred within a week that they have not given a solution. It is time to understand that this programme failed. That's why we're here now. And you once need to recognize that you did something wrong. This style of 'all I said', 'I had said it myself', I would once like you to hear that something has been done in this country that you did not predict and you did not say so. Until I hear you three years in this House, once say something that you hadn't predicted, I have not heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u461	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u463	However, Mr Tsakalotes, the truth is that you will benefit greatly if you read what I said in the previous House over the seven months, because everything was unfortunately confirmed against antenna. But I am very impressed by the fact that you have not understood the fundamental point now. In 2012, the PSI was not merely the cut-off of the Greek debt that was held internationally by private individuals. There was a nominal haircut of private debt held in net terms that reaches about ninety billion, but at the same time an OSI, an Official Sector Investment, became a drastic reduction in net present value of debt held by the official bodies, the Eurozone countries, the EFSF and the debt decreased in the hands of the public sector a hundred billion, as it says in the annual report submitted by Mr Regling two months ago, which explains in detail how Greece won with this restructuring 49% of its GDP in 2013, i.e. a hundred billion. You also obviously know - if not as a Minister, at least as a professor of finance - that the debt-serving costs, which you have put into the preliminary draft budget, have been drastically reduced this year's cost is 3.1% of GDP, probably the smallest in the Eurozone. Debt is therefore useful, even if we take into account the refinancing costs that with debts it will not exceed 9% by 2022, when the international limit is 15%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But what has happened and this dynamic has been overthrown since January? Your arrival happened. And in the first few months, you were covered behind Mr. Varoufakis. Now you're out front and we're seeing you with another eye. We see you being confident. But you need to be more precise when you talk to the House on technical issues and numbers. So you say in your draft budget how drastic the reduction in annual service costs is. However, the dynamics were indeed shaken, because we have recurred, because we have lost public revenue, because we have lost the primary surplus. Of course now we need additional intervention in the official sector, in the OSI, to further reduce the net present value, but this was also provided for in 2012 by explicit decisions of Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u464	Mr. Venizelo, we're going in four minutes. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u465	So instead of saying inaccurate things to the House, like what you said earlier, and instead of trying to make recommendations to me of ethos, you must be careful now that you are exercising authority. ‘Presidency of a man’. And since you have a say, not only in the House, not only in SYRIZA, not only in the Greek people, but also in the fifty-three, because you have a special role, be careful, because you carry too much weight, and here we are in the House to judge and judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u466	Madam President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u467	Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor for two minutes. I hope it closes. And I want to appeal to everyone. There are a lot of speakers and speakers who have to speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u468	I have my second speech, Madam President. I'm not taking any more time. Mr. Venizelos, things are very simple. After 2012, debt as a percentage of GDP increased or not increased? Didn't we get away from the debt trap or didn't we get away? That is the main question. Everything else is secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u469	Is that the basic thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u470	Unless you tell us, when I heard you say, that debt is sustainable, we can finance it, so the National Trading Team, which you wanted to introduce and go after the first assessment, was to go to Europe to thank them for helping us so far in 2012 and to go home. We have another strategy, which is not exactly that. Our strategy is a little more aggressive than that. He asks for a little more than that, because we know that both the Greek Government and many creditors were interested in saying that debt was sustainable and that's why they put the unlikely figure of 4.5% surplus in order to see each other and make fun of each other that the Greek programme is sustainable, by putting in surpluses. And no economist would say that it is sustainable, except for some Greeks, who were well-intentioned, and some in international organisations, who were forced to say it, because otherwise the programme was not viable and would lose their job. I'll only tell you one thing. I didn't say anything about your morality, by the way, I just wanted to know once if there was anything in this country that you haven't predicted to write about in my autobiography. What I want to tell you, however, is that you will have a fighting government that will give a solution to the debt and what you are doing, unfortunately, will be a footnote for the analysts of economic history for our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u471	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u472	Mr. Venizelo, you don't have the right to a new answer. You can't do that. It's over. The Minister spoke. I won't be able to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u473	Please, these are very serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u474	Another chance you'll be able to say. It can't be done. I can't give you the floor. Mr. Apostle has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u475	Wait a minute, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u476	There's no minute for you. You know that. Not two, not ten. You're not enough. But under the Rules of Procedure you have no right to a new answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u477	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u478	You have no right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u479	You don't make a good impression when you lose your word. It doesn't make a good impression for the House, the government and you personally. Well, Mr. Chakalote, I wish you could write your autobiography, but I see you're very concerned with my biography.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u480	It's the biography of the times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u481	So I tell you that you cannot personally as a professor ignore what you have falsely presented to the House. It is another thing that the sustainability of debt is economical, because we obviously also want to see a haircut and a debt relief, and another thing is the institutional and legal concept of sustainability as a prerequisite for the European institutions and the IMF to lend you. When a government declares by the mouth of the Minister of Finance, as you are now, that the country's debt is not sustainable, it is institutionally like telling the ESM and the European institutions: "In accordance with the current Treaty, do not disburse the loan." It is like saying to the Governing Council of the International Monetary Fund: 'Do not give us the remaining money, because we do not have the institutional conditions'. You're hurting the country to do a micro-party demagogue. From there on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Venizelo, time is up. Pass one, two and three minutes. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u483	Bring the country the debt haircut and the restructuring I told you about. When you bring it - and I wish it - the restructuring, I will praise you and I will help you achieve it, but not by squeeze.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u484	I'm sorry, Mr. Apostle, Mr. Michalokou will speak. It's his time as party leader. Come in, Mr. Michaloliaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u485	Don't spit where you'll lick kneel in a few days!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u486	Come on, Mr. Michaloliaco. You have the floor for eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u487	For eight minutes? It's a prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u488	Madam President, time is more. It's a protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u489	Madam President, will the Minister come?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u490	What's this? What is this, Madam President? Three days we're waiting for him to come to the House and he's hiding!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u491	Gentlemen, I had given the floor to Mr. Apostle, but it is designated for 18.30 seconds that the Chief of the Golden Dawn Party speaks. What exactly do you want? I don't understand. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u492	It's a protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u493	It's the first time I've been talking. It's 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u494	It's 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u495	It's not fifteen. It's eight minutes for everyone. This is where the Bureau approves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u496	Mr. Meimarakis yesterday? Yesterday, Mr. Meimarakis only spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u497	As you've arranged. I knew it was fifteen. I don't know now, if you want eight...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Voutsi, it's 15 minutes. This is the first time that the President of our Parliament has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u499	Mr. Meymarakis spoke for 15 minutes yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u500	Okay. It's okay. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond before this bill to a Member of the so-called constitutional arch, who said that democracy has the graciousness to speak to its negligents. We're not here by anyone's magnanimity. We are because almost four hundred thousand Greek and Greek nationalists voted for us. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] In fact, it is of particular importance to stress that the political struggle we have conducted was against everyone. There are two parties here in this Chamber: the party of the political parties, from the extreme left to the right, and the Golden Dawn. I would like earlier, because I do not believe in secret diplomacy and because it was written against the newspapers that during the visit of the Prime Minister to the United States it was agreed that Macedonia should join NATO, I should like to refer to a letter sent to me by the honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, to which he says: 'As far as the outstanding issue of the name with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is concerned, as I mentioned at the meeting of the PSE, the Greek side is working consistently. In this context and following on from our exchange of views with the parties' representatives at the last meeting, I would ask you to know the views of your party on specific names. Golden Dawn has a clear and clear position, which, unfortunately, by betraying its voters, the majority of its voters, was not during the country's previous government. No compromise for our Macedonia! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The name Macedonia belongs to Greek history, neither complex, derivative nor anything. If the Government decides to proceed with such a solution, it may have with it the New Democracy, the PASOK and the other parties, as it had on 14 August. It will, however, have the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. A great demand for today, a serious social and national problem and, unfortunately, especially Greek and not European, is illegal immigration, because you like the word, let us say illegal immigrants and refugees. Even the day before yesterday, in Agathonisi, which has no hundreds of inhabitants and has only one policeman, three porters and a municipal official, ninety refugees and illegal immigrants were released, who then led to Samos. The situation has escaped from every limit, and Europe, unfortunately, is looking forward to it by many in this position as the mother country, as a solution to the problems, to do nothing on this issue. It is important, however, to stress the statement made by the Prime Minister of the country, Alexis Tsipras, addressing Antonio Gutiéres, the High Commissioner of the United Nations, on the issues of refugees, to whom he said: "Greeks have experience from the past. Many have come from the Aegean Sea as refugees.’ Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That parallelism I do not accept! The Greeks who were slaughtering at the sea of Smyrna and were cut off from the ships of the Allied Anglo-Greeks who came down to the motherland, cannot under any circumstances be paralleled to these organized slave trades by the Turkish parastate with the shops in Smyrna to sell the life and other means. Europe tells us that it will relocate to the various countries of the European Union a hundred and twenty thousand. Already from our Skopje border, a hundred and three thousand have passed. Another seventeen thousand are going away? Four hundred thousand refugees and illegal immigrants have come to the country as a whole. What will happen to these people and what will Europe's responsibility be? Nothing on that matter! But let us come to today's subject, which is the memos. It seems that Parliament, legislative power, does not pay attention to what the judiciary says. We arrived at the memorial with false evidence, with the famous Georgios and ELSTAT, which was released with care. Well, in this dent, there was an appeal by an appellant of the Ice Bay, Mrs. Xeni Demetriou, who says that with the fake elements of ELSTAT by this established fraud the Greek people were harmed by 170 billion euros and by the PSI 210 billion euros. Won't we find responsibilities? We now come to what we are discussing today to legislate. It all started on 14 August 2015. And the SYRIZA is right to say that he told the truth at the time. That is why we voted against. Those were the prerequisites. It was nothing different. On the other hand, Mr Venizelos said earlier that they voted on 14 August because the danger of Grexit was being placed on the table. I have mentioned another time in this House that at dawn, at dawn, when Mr Tsipras and Mrs Merkel were discussing, the American man, Donald Tusk came in and said 'agreed, why Europe is gone'. He didn't say Greece was missing. It was not, therefore, given that if they didn't agree then Grexit would come. We don't know. This is a business case. There might have been a new deal. In any case, we were not the only ones who would lose out of this story if the break came, which, as the referendum on 5 July showed, was not completely absent from the Greek people. Today both the New Democracy and the PASOK and the River are voting against these tough measures. Good for them! My firm knowledge of you first! As far as SYRIZA and its executives are concerned, they were dawned with Marx, with Stalin, others with Mao, others with Trotsky, and they drank with the International Monetary Fund. That's the reality. It's the capitalist Left, I'd kind of call it. But the big issue, which is the debt issue, had the opportunity for our Prime Minister to talk to the UN and said: 'We can't really talk about aid to developing countries or loans to developed countries unless we face the debt issue as an international challenge at the heart of our global financial system'. The question of debt, Greek debt, had to be dealt with by the Prime Minister, in particular, talking about the more than 320 billion, which Greece today owes and is the definition of the burden of debt. I would also like to say that, in general, the issue of Greece is not only a matter for Greece. There is a large part of the states in the world, which have an extremely large debt. The case looks like the platonic cave, where some are tied backwards with chains and see the sunlight but shadows. Shadows are also seen by us, shadows set up in Wall Street, City, Frankfurt, the various stock exchanges, and so a country appears, without anything, suddenly owes great sums. The requirement of the Golden Dawn is to make an audit of the debt. And I am sorry that the Prime Minister has not spoken on this matter. Let's go to the bill you're talking about today. If, in its tactics, the people planning these legislations use the tactics two steps forward, one step back, very nice! First of all, we are going to collect the unrealistic rents, and then we are going to increase the tax rates for rents and suddenly withdraw them. And so the people are pleased, because a provision has been withdrawn. We have something to withdraw, so we can show something happened. Regarding the pharmaceutical industries, the representatives of the pharmaceutical industries came here and told you directly: The measures that you take lead to the destruction of Greek pharmaceutical industries for the sake of foreigners. What can I say about privatizations? We have come to see the vicious phenomenon of protesting SYRIZA MPs against privatisation in ports and airports. Let's not vote. It's very simple. I would like to conclude by saying - since there has been a cut in time - that the great question with this plan is where the country is going. Ladies and gentlemen, there are outstanding debts in the Greek state of EUR 80 billion. What is it that convinces you, what is the point that leads you to the conclusion that you will receive the 15.20 million you want from these measures? You're not gonna collect anything. The country's walking to the unknown. He's heading to a new crisis, to a new failure. And within this dark time to know that there will be some who will keep the flag of national independence, saying no to foreign loan sharks. They're the nationalists of the Golden Dawn no matter how much you don't like them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u501	They have the floor of two Ministers for Legislative Improvements. Very soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u502	Madam President, excuse me! Mr. Minister, where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u503	He'll be here, I guess. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u504	But here we are waiting for Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u505	I think he'll be here. He got angry, like you saw before!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u506	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u507	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u508	I take the floor to make some legislative improvements. I will not go into the greedy process of reading them, because it is this paragraph, this page, and so on. He's fourteen. They will be presented and shared, so that the Members will be informed. The two main points that are changing are that the Council of State is added to the courts on which pending cases can be withdrawn and that the provision that has also given rise to a huge debate is withdrawn - we will see it again in a subsequent bill after dialogue - on the submission of statements when a check order has been issued. It has been fully explained by the government, but because we do not want to let a shadow hang on to this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u509	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u510	I too, Madam President, for colleagues to have time, it is better to give legal improvements and to distribute them. There is no substantial change or individual. In fact, they are improvements in the wording or some forecasts that had not been correctly formulated in the draft law we had.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u511	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u512	Ladies and gentlemen, only as tragic irony could I describe what Mr Venizelos said, literally speaking at the house of the hanger for rope. Because, Mr Venizelos, we do not live in a land of loots, and as much wisdom as you do, as much verbal tactics as you do, you cannot get rid of the fact that you are one of the main, natural and moral perpetrators of the destruction of this place. Evidently, the Greek people in the recent elections did not do a raki, they did not vote for the second time in ignorance of danger, but with full awareness of the difficult situation that is currently in existence. I would also like to say, with a view to the JRC's fellow Members, that we have not said that the struggles will be shaken. We are not in favour of manipulating the working class and its struggles. Instead, if you try to read the latest decision of the Central Committee of SYRIZA, you will see that we consider our workers and their struggles to be an ally in the battle we are fighting, the hour being literally, against financial strangulation and the demands of lenders, even though these struggles are of course turning - since we are ruling against us. We've inherited this principle, remind you of Lenin's years, and we're not going to abandon it. Because I have heard Mr Tassoula this morning, if I am not mistaken, beating the alarm, saying that we will almost implement a policy of collecting poverty and the ruling class of this country will be devastated and orphaned, I would like to refer him to the report on world wealth published the other day. It is a report by Credit Suisse, which says that in the years that rescued this country, as they said, without its inhabitants, the wealth that brought together a significantly smaller group of citizens has increased by $127 million, at the same time that 43% of Greeks had huge losses in their income. I keep hearing you talk about equivalents. Mr. Venizelos isn't here. I would recommend to him to take paper and pencil, to tell him some equivalents, which, of course, should be searched first - our Government, so that they do not pay the known mortgages in this place that has even been removed from them. Data can be checked. On the lists of Swiss banks and specialised companies that gather information about the rich of this world, there are five hundred seventy - six Greeks who have a fortune of 88 billion dollars. This has recently been mentioned at the "BIMA", the valid "BIMA", in the course of the management of this country. This is derived from the data from UBS. Do you want to see who's included here? Eleven Greek billionaires, from nine in 2013. They've increased. How does that happen? They own 18 billion dollars worth of money from 16 billion dollars last year. With my own Marxist education, we have a classic phenomenon of concentration and concentration of capital. There are also five hundred sixty - five Greeks who each have a movable property above $30 million, and their total property amounts to $70 billion. I think the dear Treasure will note. When does this happen? At the time when the Greek people are kneeling by the Greek people, the carpets, the solidarity contributions, etc., all of them saw their riches and their property just within a year, in 2014, curiously increased by $20 billion, i.e. an increase of 16.7%. Some have to explain that to us. Let me tell you one more equivalent and finish. According to the Swiss bank of Julies Baer, we also have about thirty-five thousand millionaires who do not exceed 1% of the country's population, but have wealth that exceeds 20% of the country's entire Gross National Product. Should our government look for this equivalent? Thirdly, as is apparent from a study by Boston Consulting Group and according to international bank executives, the capital of Greek interests, including shipowners, who have found shelter in offshore banking in Switzerland - again in the 'BIMA' - is mentioned - is EUR 140 billion, i.e. over 80% of the country's gross national product. And finish with one more equivalent. According to the banks' private banking, it is estimated that only on the Athens Stock Exchange of two and a half thousand persons have shares worth more than EUR 1 million. What do you think? Are there or are there no equivalents in this place?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u513	Why don't you take them? Is that all you're saying? Take them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u514	I will close with what I have heard from this Step - and this is also a SYRIZA line - from the most responsible lips, from the Prime Minister's lips and I hope it will be done, that we will not leave the oligarchs in this place in a green cry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u515	Mr Vlachos from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has brought in and Parliament is discussing the first bill - in fact a multi-plier - in order to fulfil the country's obligations towards lenders after the agreement. Really, what does this agreement include, and what does it include? It shall include the objectives and the timetable. From that point on, measures are coming. So we - to make it clear once and for all - voted for the agreement, that is to say, we voted for the targets, we voted for the timetable and, with that vote, we gave you the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to celebrate the fact that you kept the country in the euro and avoided Grexit. Because if the opposition did not vote then, Grexit would obviously be in progress. So to be able to say this today as your own achievement, we voted in favour. From that point on, we told you something else. If you want to agree both on measures and on negotiation, we are here. You, however, claimed for yourself the property, the paternity of this negotiation, this package of measures, and you brought it, and today you will vote on it. What exactly do you want from us now? To vote on a package of measures that you negotiated as you thought were good or bad. We say evil, you say it's a success. Explain it to the world and vote for it. In your question 'What do you suggest?' And we'll tell you what we're talking about, we're telling you that the parties don't propose. The agencies propose, the ministries and the government bring them along. As SYRIZA does not propose equivalents, so the New Democracy does not propose equivalents. The government comes and has the initiative of legislative work to explain to us why you tell us to tell you the equivalents. I would now be told by someone "you're telling all this, they're holding elections, people again gave SYRIZA the opportunity to be a government". Yes, the Greek people gave you a second chance. We respect the Greek people's crisis, of course, but what we are asking today is for you to rule on the basis of the mandate you have given. We have explained by our President, Vangelis Meimarakis, that what we consider to be a good thing in this bill, but then we will support it, we will vote on it. We will not be opposition to 'no' in everything, but we will not vote and something that we consider to be material, is anti-development, is without perspective. It frightens us with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, that all these measures come on their own or are not within a programme that starts, in the middle and end, to come here and tell us where you start and where you go. I say, for example: if we in the committee were to agree with what you brought, the increase in the rent tax? Could we also say that 12%, 15%, 33%, 35%? After a while, you guys got it back. How can one trust you in these spasm measures that you bring, since they are not documented? Do you understand why you've been on a lonely road and you won't easily find someone to support you on this initiative? That is the essence and that is what you need to overcome and not desperately voices towards opposition to co-operation and what you say and what you are doing. In any case - I do not care what you say about the opposition - I will tell you that these voices will not be heard by the New Democracy. We can't watch you, we won't. We think the facts are hard. They land you and they will land you even further in the next period. Unfortunately, however, the Greek people will also land in despair. The responsibility is certainly yours. That is why we have said that we are voting against in principle and colleagues will give details of our positions on the articles in this bill. Because we are starting with the rejection of any policy you want to present. Madam President, I would like to say a word and make a reference to Article 13 in particular. By virtue of the provisions of Article 13, as known, they are exempted from compensation fees for natural and legal persons having concluded concessions with the Greek State and with municipalities. I have here the protests of the mayors of the region around the airport, where these municipalities have taken some compensation for the charge of the airport, whether we call them electric light or cleanliness. They also have the decision of the Council of State. And you come today to cut off these rewards, you don't explain anything of our own objections and the mayors, and you move on as if you heard nothing. Essentially four leading municipalities and two a little further away from the airport, i.e. the huge Mediterranean municipality that hosts the big airport, which is so burdened, you come today to cut back all the rewards and drive the wider area to mary. We have asked you and we ask now - Mr Chakalotos is missing, but we tell the Government - that you withdraw Rule 13. We will ask for a roll-call vote on the article and we will ask for a roll-call vote because the people in the region must know who eventually goes and promises - what they promise over time - and who is consistent with his word and his actions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore like to end, Madam President, by calling on the government, the ministers currently in the Chamber, to withdraw Rule 13, which creates enormous problems in a wider area. And to close, I would like to say that the huge revenue out of our municipalities that will emerge will have evident effects on the infrastructure of our municipalities and on the services offered to the public: electricity, cleanliness on municipal roads, schools, municipal gyms and public spaces. This is the cry of anguish by the Mayors of Koropi, the Spata - Artemidas, Marcopoulou, Painiana, Pallini...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u517	Mr. Vlavo, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u518	...and this cry of agony of these citizens, we demand that it be respected with the withdrawal of Article 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. Mr Apostle, Minister for Rural Development, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u520	Ladies and gentlemen, we of the government majority have no problem voting on the bill. Like the first time, we're gonna do it now. You take all your time to justify the contradiction of your first, second. We don't have a problem. Because if we all remember what happened on the night of July 10th here, where we all authorized the negotiating team, led by the Prime Minister, to go to Brussels to discuss with the institutions, we were all, of course, in our minds, defending the country's European course. That was, then, the question of that agreement. Of course, it did not end there because the implementation of this agreement remains, let alone when the first evaluation procedure has not yet been completed in order to create these conditions for our country to move forward. So you have a problem because you cannot justify your behaviour. We're clear. However, we, who are particularly concerned with rural areas, have done so. I think you did it, too. Because, when more than two and a half billion a year, i.e. over 55% of rural income, come from Community aid and when around one billion euros a year actually is the only amount that comes in connection with the investment in the area, you understand that this is what we had in mind - you had it too - to ensure that. Of course, it's not the time now. We can have a debate if the common agricultural policy has benefited or not benefited. We can talk about this some other time. But the point is, right now, the deal was necessary. What we are committed to and which we are constantly talking about with the citizens, especially the farmers, is how the effects of this agreement - some of which, in fact, are painful for the rural area - can be as mild as possible. We invited you to submit your proposals. We're still waiting for them. We - you will know - are talking about the farmers. And we discuss them every day at the Ministry of Rural Development. Nearly all the farmers who are mobilising at this time have talked to them. We have tabled our own proposals. We are also listening to farmers to form a - I would say - a common strategy so that in the debate that will take place within the days with the institutions to ease these consequences. It's a lot of issues. We don't have time. I would just like to say that it is not possible to treat the main industrial farmers differently. We are being asked for this in the agreement, a particular definition. We'll take advantage of it. It is not possible at this time to deal with the question of Community aid in all the other countries of Europe differently, and here it is trying to impose a tax quite hard. I would like to remind you, in particular, in CSR, that we were the ones who introduced in 2013 for the taxation of all aid, and we had regulation in the summer of 2015, which is now and will apply to the income of 2015, which provides for a tax-free amount of EUR 12 000. It's a lot of issues. We think there's an absolute need for the space to go into order. That is why we are saying that it is necessary to keep revenue and expenditure records to farmers for the simple reason that, in the way they have reached the cost of production, account must be taken not only of the amount of the farmer's share of the farm, his wife, not only of the other costs, so that we can reach a point where there is no tax. Because we all accept that if the real numbers of the rural area are reflected, then there will be no taxable matter available, let alone when we calculate - as I have said before - the part of the farmer, his wife and his children. It's a lot of scripts we're going to discuss with them. You have the margin, if you wish, to submit to us, so that what is a common target, to alleviate the effects, particularly on taxation, is a reality. Another very serious issue that concerns the rural area - and that is where an effort is needed - is the continuing operation of the OGA, and in particular, a premium which, as requested, cannot be served by Greek farmers. We have prepared a relevant proposal, which is a gradual one, and I would say, a five-year implementation, which will be linked to income. We don't have time. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have a plan for the country's productive reconstruction. We consider the agri-food complex to be the main tool that can mainly be based on two needs of the country and at the same time possibilities. On the need to cover the food adequacy - which is a great problem - and at the same time, at the same time, to make Greek agriculture competitive by what we call the 'added value', resulting from their quality, from standardisation. A few days ago, I was in Anuga, at the International Exhibition in Cologne, Germany, where Greece had two hundred seventy Greek exhibitors, where the real picture, the potential of the Greek rural world, was shown, to take the lead in what we call "products of designation of origin", "geographical indication". We, therefore, have made our plans, we will serve them and we invite you to this effort, because it is not just the Memorandum obligations. We believe that, after the first assessment, a new way is opened for our country and on this road it will really be the rural area of protagonist, how much more so when it responds to another request that we are all concerned with. The social cohesion of the region, the province, must be our flag, because these people who live in these areas are the pillar of, I would say, the Greek society, the Greek province. So you have no problem. I will simply tell you that the three articles on the rural area, which are in this bill, are in a positive direction. They do not create any problems in the rural area, I would say that we should have gone further ahead. That is why at least you are being given the opportunity, by voting on these three articles, to say that 'we have voted, we have done something', to justify your attitude in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u521	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u522	What do you want, Mr. Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u523	I would like to speak as a parliament after the Minister has been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u524	The Secretary-General of the JRC has asked for the floor now. You'll be waiting and you'll talk right after. Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u525	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the closer the voting time on the plan that will scan the low income and the rights of workers, escalating the pre-existing anti-grass attack, the stronger you decibel your propaganda's decibels to maintain illusory corrective movements to continue the negotiation. Trying to earn time and distract popular tolerance. That is why you say that the implementation of the memorandum will be a confrontational procedure on which a left-wing government will try to reduce the negative impact on the social majority. Repeat monotonously that most negatively you have received from the previous ones. Deal. We are not questioning this or criticising it. The problem is that you do not question anything more than what you received, you do everything to antenna and you add new anti-grass measures, just as much and worse. With your actions and your own words in the debate that preceded these days, you are increasingly revealing the anti-grassman of your policy. You criticise the New Democracy, the PASOK, the other parties because they do not fully support the prerequisites, stressing that all the measures promoted by your Government are in line with their ideology and positions. Your Minister Alexiadis reminded us that the New Democracy has brought HNPH and that your government is simply attempting to improve the collection of the raisins imposed on the people by the previous governments. So soon you want us to forget about what you guys were saying about HIFI, about the rags? You were yelling for chills in popular property, pillaging poor farmers and self-employed professionals, for buying auctions. And now you say that everything is forgotten and that what is needed is to improve the collection of measures for poor people. At the same time you tell the people that compliance with the loan agreement, namely the new memorandum, and successful evaluation by the troika is of international importance because it determines the fate of the first left-wing government, which is a European and international example. On the one hand, you confess that you are moving firmly on the anti-grassroots path of the previous governments and, on the other, you are calling on the people to agree to continue their slaughter only because the current government is left-wing and is struggling for a change of relation within the European Union, so that it can be made better. The same thing your political friends of French and Italian social democracies say above, Olad and Renci. They are also destroying the rights of the French and Italian people, and at the same time they are struggling with the German Government about the framework for future governance of the Eurozone. This is why the annual losses of the income and property of the people's family in Greece are in line with those of Italy and France, as a recent report by Credit Suisse showed. That is why we say that government claims to remedial movements are 'covetous to the sick until his soul comes out'. If they catch a place in popular consciences, precious time will be lost for the necessary organisation and development of the struggle against the new measures to reclaim relief, recovery of losses. Moreover, measures such as these do not derogate from a rule do not constitute a mistake to have corrective action, this is the general course of things in all the Member States of the European Union. There's no time to say detailed about everything. After all, the JRC Members spoke clearly and specifically about all the articles and, in principle, about many issues in the draft law. Some of the points we want to make: First of all, insurance. Social security, i.e. the protection of the health of our people, politics, this valuable pension, when the years are over and the man wants to rest from years of work. I would like to point out again: Hands off what is left over. The people and youth are sure they won't leave you in a green cry. The measures you propose - and they will not be the only ones - will be followed in the next few months on the basis of your Committee of Wise Men's proposal - bring new vertical dramatic reductions in pensions, benefits, increases in age limits to deep old age without exceptions, abolition of heavy and unhealthy ones. The new system of default contributions with individual accounts and the final amount of pension proposed by the Commission of your Wise Men, the new way of calculating pensions at a much lower rate of replacement, also, a pro-active poverty allowance that you call it a heavy national pension, but also the integration of the funds with a lower level of pensions and benefits, are proposals for unprecedented cruelty and hardness, which affect not only the pensioners themselves, but also those who have paid multiples of all these years of work and are preparing to retire in the next decade. It is much more afflicting the new generations that are directly concerned with the whole of socio-security, which is not just pensions, which may seem to them distant, regardless of whether the years are moving quickly like water. They are directly concerned because it also has to do with their current insurance, with the need to go to the doctor if he gets sick, the need to have a family, to marry, to have children, the woman to become a mother, and then take them to the pediatrician and go by saying. It is challenging to try to dress with the cloak of social justice your attack on the popular layers. You are baptising privileged and burdening those who are employed and self-employed are not in a situation of extreme poverty today, and at the same time you are giving new privileges to big capital. You are moving quickly towards the abolition of the BAE, of the heavy and unhealthy ones. You want cleanliness workers to work up to the deep old ages. We tell you once again: Hands off the heavy and unhealthy. We promise we won't let you as long as it goes through our hand, complete this crime. You are presenting as the privileged pensioner of EUR 1,000 who maintains his unemployed son and his grandson, the survivor who survives because he receives a rent in the flat left by his father, the professional who has - barely today - open business, that is, those who still have it open. Also, the new regulations on the medicine are not taken with the aim of reducing the private costs of the people's family, since you have already increased the relative contributions of pensioners to the main and supplementary pensions. You are trying to regulate the market shares of both the pharmaceutical industry as a whole and within this industry between domestic producers and major importers. Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-brand plan that we are discussing with the anti-grassian prerequisites to be voted on to give creditors the dose, including the financial board and the activation of the 'automatic cut-off of public expenditure'. The "automatic cutter" as Mr Tsakalotos had termed him some time ago in his antimonetary phase, means simply automatic reductions in salaries, pensions, social allowances, grants to insurance funds, and indeed, horizontally, automatic cuts in funds to hospitals, schools, universities, municipalities and other local authorities. What the 'automatic cutter' means for people's needs is obvious. When you cut money from hospitals, you cut the knife with the possibility of patients finding their health. When you cut money from schools, you deprive children of learning letters. When you cut off the people, you do it to serve only the groups. It is well known that the drafting of a financial council has been provided for in an implementing law by a previous government, of course, but the relevant provision, denounced at the time by SYRIZA, remained inactive. Now it comes not only to implement it, but also to enrich it with the "automatic knife" costs for people's needs. This really is not just a 'automally cut', but a genuinely 'automated slaughterhouse' in the funds for people's needs. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are hypocritically lifting the flag against tax evasion and at the same time maintaining the provocative tax exemption scheme for shipowners who pay for annual fares for two - three days. You are talking about rationalisation of taxation and at the same time keep the tax burden on groups that do not pay even 1/10 of the State's annual tax revenue. It really needs great courage, to baptize as a fight against tax evasion the new great gifts you make towards the monopolies, towards the ruling class. Exempt groups that sign concessions from the fees to the Local Government agencies, giving the possibility of private management of their waste. You delete OSE and TRENOSE debts so that after privatisation, groups that will be new owners will ensure high profitability without weights and obligations. You tax small family tourists more than large anonymous companies and five luxuries hotels. You are actually reducing the tax burden on large capital, which will be borne by concessions to make use of the State's assets. By exempting the GOI from paying the concessionaire, the concessionaire will only be taxed for the purpose of precariousness or for the right to surface. Eventually, only the big chapter takes it out again. That's why the various fascist queers in the system, this rot of Nazi criminals guided by today's offenders, the descendants of Hitler's associates, who defend him, do not put out jelly. They sit chickens, they become rabbits in the listening and only the word "SIEMENS" that financed Hitler's ideological father, or they judge for other words to be loved, they remember various economics that have nothing to do with reality and so on. Only the Greek workers want slaves and sell them to slave trade offices, only Greek workers, young anti-fascists and poor refugees find them murder by sending their orders. But for these guys, saliva doesn't deserve to be used. By the way, I said that. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are constantly talking about the great goal of debt write-down. You are baptizing as a write-down on the prolongation of payments and the reduction of interest rates. You are hiding that the people who are not responsible and who have benefited nothing from the creation of the state debt will be called upon to pay for it as a whole. The monopolistic groups that benefited from tax exemptions, NATO's costly armaments programs do not pay and that is why they lovingly embrace you both on Greek and American territory. At the same time, you are becoming increasingly involved in this dangerous bucket of imperialist opposition in the region. You have just confirmed your strategic coexistence with the United States yesterday, so that the Atlantic gas transport projects in the wider region may be taken a head start at the expense of Russian competitive projects. You are talking about the role of Greece in the regional energy game and you are hiding deadly dangers to our people, to all the peoples, who have the game of sharing the markets. And, on the occasion of today's debate, do not dare to move on to the encouragement of Europeans and NATO for common border surveillance with Turkey on the pretext of the refugee and immigration problem. All these people do not see that Turkey questions our country's sovereign rights in the Aegean, it speaks of gray zones, it constantly violates Greece's maritime and air borders and is trying to create a fait accompli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u526	Mr. Kutsuba, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u527	I shall conclude, Madam President. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, like the other Euro-Atlantic forces, have enormous responsibilities for this development. Ladies and gentlemen, the anti-grassroots measures and capitalist restructurings that are being promoted everywhere are conscious and anticipated to ensure better conditions of profits for the wolf alliance monopolies and strengthen their competitiveness in the international arena, where they are measured with other monopolies of other major capitalist states. Faced with the attack of a government, the European Union, capital, the workers and the poor populaces of the city and the countryside affected, they have nothing but to look at their unity in a strong popular alliance capable of counteracting it and opening up the path of counter-attack. We say that no man of the toil falls into the trap of the candlesticks for corrections. This does not take the policy that breaks him to regain the profits of business groups. This policy cannot be corrected. He doesn't get meds. The people only have a choice to fight it, to make it difficult, in order to finally overthrow it along with the causes of it. Let us make it clear to you that we are in a conclusive and concise way: The cause of war is the socio-security system, the pension system, the health of our people, which affects not only pensioners but all categories of citizens and all ages. The cause of war is the tax burden and the great attack on the workers of our country, the confiscations and the unbearable tax burdens that make their lives unbearable. The cause of war is unemployment and the guarantee of a job with rights for all our people and young people. This is an issue that directly refers to what development each political party proposes. Development for who? For the worker, the professional, land grower, the farmer, the youth or the development for the large group, the monopoly, capital, which only aims to undo workers with reductions in wages, wages and wages and any minimum labour rights and conquests still remain? You'll find us for all this and many more and urgently across. The Greek people have not tested their true power. This is called upon to do in the coming years, and so only can the situation radically change and feel and be truly happy. Every day you'll find us on the streets of the race. Welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u528	Good games!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u529	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor for 15 minutes and immediately after the President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u530	Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago I returned from Brussels from a critical summit on the refugee issue, which, as you know, is obviously beyond the scope of the host countries. This is a top issue from which you will allow me to say that it is the future, the character and the identity of Europe. It is a fact that Europe has been surprised. It was amazed by the scale of the flows, but I would also like to say that Europe realised that there is a problem when these people arrived in the courtyards of the countries of Central Europe. As long as millions of refugees were on the coast of Turkey, as long as the Greek islands since the beginning of last year and especially in spring, these huge waves of refugee flows came, there was a stand-by, a embarrassment. Many were confusing the refugee issue with immigration, that is, they thought it was the same size. Despite the fact that recent years there has been a mobilisation of the European institutions, but also of the governments, to solve the problem, it is true that these decisions and moves are coming too late and Europe is still moving too slowly. And that's not all. There are different views, concepts within Europe. Unfortunately, there are countries and governments, of course, that represent them - it has nothing to do with the people - which are taking a terrible, xenophobic, extreme conservative attitude that lifts up walls and wires, which respond to people who are looking for a better life with violence, with tear gas at the border. We've seen these. Of course, there is another concept which is expressed by a number of countries and fortunately - I would say - from large countries which are currently suffering the heavy burden, greater than ours - of course have potential to cope - such as Germany and Sweden, which are currently close to the one million refugees and obviously do not raise walls and wires. If that were the case, Europe would be dissolved today. If we want, therefore, as a Europe to deal effectively with the challenge of the refugee question, we must increase speed and work methodically and in coordination. The decisions taken yesterday have, of course, been in a positive direction, as it appears that the perceptions that do not fit the European acquis and the humanitarian tradition of Europe are slowly tempting. But these perceptions are sufficient and signify this ambiguity and contradiction in Europe. At the same time, those who want the problem of refugee flows are gaining ground, this existential problem being tackled on the basis of the principles of solidarity, cooperation and shared responsibility between the Member States. As far as Greece is concerned, we have made it very clear that we need to gradually shift the burden from the Greek islands to the Turkish coast, so that the process of relocation is carried out directly from there to stop the Aegean to count dead - unfortunately in the last few days we have had new tragedies on our seas - and that this disgraceful exploitation of these afflicted people by slave traffickers also stops. In this direction, Greece has said - and we have said so since last March, if I remember correctly at the first summit, the extraordinary when we asked for Greece and Italy to tackle the refugee problem - and now it is prepared to support a policy of strengthening Turkey by the European Union to cooperate in the fight against refugee flows. Badly lies, Turkey has a heavy burden. But if there is the possibility of a structured policy, it cannot be dealt with after these people have been found, take the risk of entering the sapiacarava, the caravan holes and losing their lives in the Aegean Sea. So this policy is the right one. We are prepared to support a policy of strengthening Turkey by the European Union, without, of course, implying that there will be concessions or concessions from our side or from the European side on matters relating to our national sovereignty. We have also explained in private, but at the summit too, that joint patrolling with Turkish ships in Greek territorial waters cannot exist. We could not accept it firstly because, unfortunately, the constant disputes and violations on the part of neighbours, violations and disputes on issues that are cleared by international law, which should not be present and which do not allow us to have confidence, and secondly, because it has no meaning whatsoever. Any intervention in Greek, i.e. in European waters, can only be a rescue, recovery and transfer to the nearest islands, namely the Greek islands. But what does that mean? It means that the problem is not dealt with. Who will collect in Greek territorial waters, if it will be a Greek or Turkish ship, is a little important as far as the need for these people to be saved. But if one wants to deal with the problem of flows, that is to say to reduce flows, then there should be strict and guardian controls, not in the territorial waters, but in the mainland of Turkey, in Turkey, in the Turkish territories. And that's what I think was made clear. I would like to stress, however, that the fact that it has no meaning and that we could not accept joint patrols in Greek territorial waters does not mean that we cannot have and do not already have - an effective coordination and cooperation at all levels with the Turkish coastguard and cooperation at all the operational levels of the Greek and Turkish forces. This can, of course, continue if there is political will on the other hand. I would also like to take note of the fact that the huge cost that the host countries have to pay for caring for and ensuring decent conditions for refugees has been recognised. And I would like to point out that this cost is not entirely measurable. How can one assess the cost of health care, the twenty-four-four-four continuous patrolling of the port, the cost of the municipalities and five islands on the front line, which most of them have already wasted a large part of the annual budget for 2015 for priority projects? And I would like to keep in mind that until now the Greek state has only taken little money from European funds, not because we have not been prepared in time to absorb money, but because these funds are available, there are to deal with a long-term programme from 2015 to 2022 to deal with refugee and migration flows. They are programs that have to do with integration into the social fabric, with the creation of hospitality centres, but not with the immediate problem of collection, protection, feeding, medical care, the identification of all these people who are thousands of daily. Our obligation by the European Union to create the so-called reception centres - in my opinion, they are badly called hot spots - is an obligation that we will implement. But they must all understand that these centres will be recognition centres. Refugees must not stay longer than two days. They will be settled and they will leave to the mainland and from there to their destination. And their destination is not to stay in Athens, Thessaloniki or other cities in Greece. Their destination is the countries of Central Europe. We will therefore be able to meet this task regardless of the fact that, despite the great words, substantial funding has not been provided by the European Union to date. There are rules coming from the deal. You all know them. There are penalties, let me say that, if these rules are not applied. There's a suffocating frame. But, solidarity a la carte. At least this time, there is a climate of understanding that it is not a Greek problem, it is a European problem and solidarity must not remain in the words. We don't go as disgusting. We are not going to respond in order to get some aid. We will respond, because it is our humanitarian duty. From our legacy we will give to give humanity and shelter and a dish of food to people who need it. [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, I would like to welcome from Parliament the intervention of the President of the European Parliament at the summit, who spoke about the need for the countries which bear the main burden of receiving the refugee flows of budgetary relaxation and aid, which is clearly necessary for aid, logistical and financial support, to help overcome bureaucratic obstacles to this task. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as our powers are concerned, we will continue to move firmly towards the resolution of this crisis, highlighting a different person, which Europe needs, and at the same time highlighting the need to address the causes of this great crisis. We must not forget that the causes are the absurd choices, the choices of wars in countries like Syria, in countries like Afghanistan, in countries like Libya, which create instability in the wider region. You'll give me some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u531	Mr President, for those who are not refugees, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u532	You raise a very serious issue, and this is a serious issue, because at the moment in the United Nations' criteria those who come from Afghanistan, that is, from a war zone, meet the criteria close to 70%. To qualify as refugees it needs to be 75%. You realise that this is a very big problem for us, because they are also people who do not have the economic potential of Syrian refugees, who are mostly from the middle class. In Afghanistan there is no middle class. Everything's broken up. And there is a great risk, a huge risk, that, since they are not part of the logic of relocation, they are considered as economic immigrants. The huge problem is that neither Afghanistan obviously nor Turkey respects the readmission agreement that we have signed since 2001. We have the same problem with Pakistan. So this is a big issue for Greece and for Europe, and it was one of the issues that dealt with yesterday's summit with our central request that Afghan refugees be included, because refugees are, in the process of relocation, relocation, so that what is also true of Syrians. I would like to close the briefing for the summit, just to say something about the accession process. It is obvious that, on the Turkish side, there is now a bazaar, which is not only about the financial aid that has been launched since EUR 1 billion, reaching EUR 3 billion, and also about the debate that has to do with Turkey's accession to the European Union, the accession process. They're asking to make promises that the debate will be opened. These promises on the part of President Juncker and Chancellor Merkel seem to have already been made. From our side, we are holding a stand of responsibility. Turkey's accession process to the European Union must not give us any fear, in so far as the principles are respected in full of the criteria for Turkey's accession to Europe. If the Turkish Government takes steps in this direction - indeed, indeed, indeed - and above all, in terms of human rights, democratisation, this will be an important step for us as well. Above all, however, we must not forget that these steps can only include Turkey's change of attitude on the issue of occupation of the northern part of Cyprus, a occupation that has been carried out for forty years and is a sign for our common European culture. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Yesterday I had the pleasure and honour of representing President Anastasiades as well, and I think that the final result of the Session is a result that moves within the framework of the objectives that we had jointly set Greece and Cyprus. Let me now turn to the subject of today's sitting, apologise to the House for a long time, but I think it was a briefing that had to be done. Obviously I did not have the pleasure of attending the meeting, to follow closely the positions of the Opposition. I have, however, been informed, ladies and gentlemen, that much of these positions have been taken. I have to say first of all that the communication orchestra for new measures, new tax burdens, which have been at the top of the whole of the last period, if you like, has been at the heart of informing our fellow citizens, has been disproved. There are no new measures. There are difficult measures, but we have known about them. You knew them, we all knew them since August. And you, ladies and gentlemen, both knew them and the New Democracy and the PASOK and the River when you voted with us on the Agreement on 13 August. That's the truth. There are, then, difficult measures, which we have to implement, having a strategy - of course at the same time finding compensatory, but having a strategy - a strategy that says that the evaluation process must go ahead, we must not lose the train's recapitalisation of the banks in 2015 - because this can mean risks to the banking system - and we must, of course, continue to negotiate on those fronts that we have already shown that we must continue and not go back. Well, that means you can't put on red lines for everything. You need to decide where you're going to aim. We must continue with all this and we must get through the evaluation and get to the debate, in this great debate on the necessary debt write-down. So I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a strategic and existential deadlock with regard to opposition rhetoric towards the government. Of course, this does not mean that the Greek people have no memory. It has only been a few days since, in extremely difficult times, the SYRIZA and ANEL Government claimed for seven months from a tough negotiation a good deal. And you were the ones who accused us of throwing the country on the rocks we are negotiating, which we do not sign, which we are stalling. You were also, I remind you, those who held a very large campaign at that time in the julis referendum in favour of an agreement that had worse measures, but which had no impact and had 20 billion higher primary surpluses. You were also the ones who voted in Parliament in August on the agreement that we brought today, and refuse to vote on the measures, the implementing laws of the agreement that you voted on in August. And the question is: What exactly are you pretending to be today? The antimony?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u533	How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u534	The antimony. You're an antimony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u535	Am I an antimony?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u536	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u537	So you are presently representing them as an antimony you who, for five years, supported without any negotiation anything brought to you by the lenders, you who for seven months have been whacking the government that negotiated hard and with you this attitude are doing nothing more than making a fool of yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u538	You're digging your laws!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u539	Please, be quiet. Please, there is no dialogue here. Mr. Voridis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u540	You do nothing more than ridicule and throw the level of political controversy, because the Greek people have a memory. We, ladies and gentlemen... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I understand that you're being disturbed by what I'm saying, but I want to answer that reproach. We, ladies and gentlemen, have fought with honesty, honesty. We've reached the line. We've reached the ends. We saw that we took the most we could take for the benefit of the Greek people, what was possible to win and we made a difficult decision at a cost. We made a choice of compromise, and we didn't make fun of anyone. The Greek people had the opportunity to judge and choose who will be the one to manage a difficult agreement for the first time in this place. For the first time in this place the elections were held after a difficult agreement and not before that agreement. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And the people decided...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u541	You have no right, miss, to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u542	The popular verdict is respected and the popular verdict must be respected by all, whether in agreement or in disagreement with it. So you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u543	But what has happened is not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u544	It's okay. Our House is the cradle of democracy and the cradle of democracy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So you want to vote today against the applicable laws of an agreement that you voted for in August. But I would like to ask you a question: Good, you are also asking us to vote against what I understand. And what are you asking us to do exactly? What's your counterproposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u545	To vote in favour!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u546	What is the alternative you have to testify to the Greek people? What's your alternative plan? What's the vision you're suggesting? What is your view, your plan for the future of the country? What are you asking us to do? Are you asking us to renegotiate when we were negotiating, to renegotiate? Are you going to do any Zappeion in the next few days?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u547	But there is a limit!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u548	We want the parallel program!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u549	Are you asking us not to apply the agreement? So the recapitalisation process does not go any further? So that citizens' small deposits should be jeopardised? Should we not proceed with the assessment in time for the debt debate to be opened? We have a road map that starts, middle and ends. You can review this road map. But tell us an alternative proposal. We have asked you to table an alternative proposal on the wonderfully equivalents to private education, and so far we have heard krone and extremism. Come and present a proposal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u550	Mr. Friend's three cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u551	But, ladies and gentlemen, you do not have a plan for the country. All you have in mind is your great agony, your great misery to be again in the chairs of power. But I have the feeling that as long as you show this to the Greek people, with any Chief of the New Democracy, not only this four-year period, but the next you will not return! You'll be staying in the chairs for many years! At least look at this opposition being constructive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u552	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u553	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to the criticism that has been heard these days, because you know that the misuse of arguments and alternative plans for the place results in a lasting repetition of one, let me be allowed to speak, of scandal. You have recently discovered supposedly corrupt ministers in the government, but for whom you have not found any real elements that could haunt any corruption. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Don't look for any corruption on the left. Of course, anyone who rules must pass through the eye of the needle. We accept both criticism and control. However, control and criticism must be established before they take decisions from a telephony office. So to stop this pointless debate, I would like to repeat what I have said at times and for which I am committed, that this government will not put its backs on corruption and tax evasion, and that in this country the institutions and procedures will finally work and nobody will be left in the unavoidable, neither a civil servant nor a politician nor a minister nor a minister, if there is evidence. But speaking of evidence, not speculation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u554	That's it! Look at them a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u555	And keep in mind this... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't provoke me. You are causing me because a huge issue was raised these days, because a newly elected Minister, a newly elected MP in 2012 made an incomplete statement, which he corrected in the same year and in 2013, 2014 and 2015 has declared all these amounts and has been taxed on them. Should we talk about those who have no sums for which they have not been taxed? At least these amounts have been taxed. No one stole them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u556	Who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u557	Names to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u558	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u559	So, shall we talk about the millions of people of PASOK, who were from the black funds of Siemens? You want to talk about these? Where'd that million go? Where did Siemens' money go? So don't challenge me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u560	Let's talk! We have nothing to fear!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u561	Don't challenge me, at the hanged man's house, they don't talk about rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u562	Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u563	Well, you should know that nothing will be forgotten for anyone. And because this government has a few months to rule, if there is evidence of any minister, but evidence, then, like all the citizens of this country, it will be treated equally against the law. But keep in mind that you will not make a political career on the back of this government, those who cover up, those who make 'gifts', those who maintain customer relations with state-owned entrepreneurs. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This time we're not going to spare anyone. The Greek people have commanded us to rule and this time we will rule and we will not rejoice to anyone. We will rule, just as the mandate of the Greek people is. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And I would like, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, to inform you that, if some people thought that because time is running out, they will get away with tax control in large tax matters or in the cases of famous lists, they are mistaken. Today we are tabling an amendment from the Ministry of Finance, with which all cases are extended for another year. All cases will be checked and every scoundrel on his bench!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u564	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u565	We applaud too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u566	For all the names!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u567	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u568	Let's also vote for an article!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u569	Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the agreement we have before us is a difficult agreement. But I repeat that we have a strategic plan. One might disagree with this plan, but we have not heard any alternatives. And we are aiming to win this bet, to go through the first assessment cave, so that the discussion on the necessary debt write-downs can be opened positively and a positive end. But I want to say - and I will close with that - that we are not staying there. We shall proceed at the same time as what we have called our parallel programme. We will implement our commitments to the Greek people. First of all, immediately - so that there is no anxiety in some - on Monday we present the media bill to Parliament. We keep our commitment. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I hope that you too will keep your commitment and vote in favour of this large section on the political system!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u570	And the thirteenth pension!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u571	The thirteenth pension!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u572	I see you restless. Don't worry. And that's not all. Everywhere, in every law, in every initiative, in every action, our only concern, from now on and always, is the protection of the weakest in this society, of the people's strata. That is why we, too, will implement our promises to the people. Election, a few days before the elections, I was in one of the most degraded neighborhoods of Piraeus, Keracini. There I promised, therefore, that the dream of decades of the citizens of a degraded region of Piraeus and the poor neighbourhood of Drapetson and Keratini should finally become a forehead and access to the sea, green forehead, forehead of recreation, forehead culture, forehead breath. Our promise will take place. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We reviewed the public concession to the PPA and kept the Greek State in order to make use of it, the front in the Drapetsona fertilisers. And this front will be regenerated, there will be a green, recreational area and culture. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that, if we are here, we are here because the inhabitants of Drapetsonas, Keratini, Kokkinia, Peristeri, Agaleo, all the people of Athens, Thessaloniki and the whole country have been sent to us. These interests we serve. We're here for them, and we'll do the best we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u573	By the time Mr Theodorakis comes up, the Minister will take the floor for a moment for a legal intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u574	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u575	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u576	Mr. Cryazides, you don't have the floor! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u577	Mr President, I raise my hand for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u578	Please don't have the floor! Mr. Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u579	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u580	What personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u581	Wait a minute, Mr. President. The Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u582	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u583	The Prime Minister referred here and challenged us, saying 'What are you asking us to do?'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u584	You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u585	Let me explain. Can't I explain? The Prime Minister referred here to the bill, saying 'What are you asking us to do?'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u586	Please, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u587	How is there no staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u588	There's no staff. Mr. Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u589	Just a minute, I'll develop it. Let me explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u590	There's no staff. Ask your people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u591	Sit down. Mr. Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u592	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to table an improvement regulation in Article 13(3). Where it says ‘final’, the word ‘cleanness’ shall be added and another subparagraph shall be added to the same paragraph, in Article 13(3), which reads ‘which is ratified by Parliament by formal law’. With these two additions, Mr President, the interests of local government are truly guaranteed in the best and most clearest way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u593	They won't accept it. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u594	And because I want us to be honest, I understand the anguish of all Members of this Parliament about this issue and I recognise everyone's interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u595	Oh, no. The CEDEFOP does not accept it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u596	I will inform you that I have spoken with the President of the CEDEFOP. Don't invoke him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u597	The Minister's talking. Sit down, Mr. Bourra, you're talking. The Minister's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u598	After you talked to him, why don't you bring it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u599	Mr. Bourra, why is this concern today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u600	Let me talk! With these provisions - those of us who want to be honest - the interests of local government are fully guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u601	They're not guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u602	And I don't want to invoke mayors with whom I spoke, who are not at all in the area where I politically am.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u603	The CCT shall be the instrument.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u604	Let go, Mr. Bourra, you did. You said it, we heard it. Let me finish. Take Mr. Patolis and then come inside and disprove me. Because, Mr President, there has been another issue which concerns the heavy and unhealthy workers in the area of cleanliness, there is no such problem and no such issue, and I think that the concern which has been expressed and expressed is too much. A matter has also been raised with regard to medicines. We all have to know, ladies and gentlemen, that pharmaceutical expenditure in Greece is a closed budget. We're talking about 1,945,000 euros. Any action taken shall not relate to the size of that amount. It's about an internal matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u605	Minister, excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u606	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u607	Minister, you have taken the floor for the legislative improvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u608	I apologise and apologise to Mr Theodorakis too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u609	Well, testify to the Minutes to the legislative improvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u610	...it is an internal matter, and here of course, not only the government, but the entire Parliament must support the production of a medicinal product in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u611	Mr President, as a parliamentary representative I would like to say this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u612	But wait a minute, Mr. Loverdos, I have already announced the President of the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u613	I, too, asked for the floor, Mr President, and you must keep the hierarchy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u614	I'll beg you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u615	Please, if you want, facilitate the process and get after the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u616	For this reason, please - so that I do not intervene now - and I would ask Mr Kourublis to remain and to speak after the speech by Mr Theodorakis, because there are too many open issues on his amendment and we must have him here to discuss it. I'm asking him to stay. If he doesn't stay, then I can't talk to him. I know it's an indirect insult to Mr. Theodorakis, but you settle the matter. If he does not stay and leave, we lose the opportunity, under the Rules of Procedure of the House, to address him and in a few hours' time we shall vote. Article 13 has upset all Greece. All right, Keratini and Perama, but don't take them back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u617	Come on! Leave us now with the northern suburbs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u618	Minister, you're staying, aren't you? The President of the River now has the floor. Mr. Theodorakis, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u619	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great interest to the Prime Minister's position on all that has happened in Europe in relation to refugee and immigration. And I honestly wonder how much SYRIZA's education will cost the Greek people to European reality. And I'm going to be specific... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Allow me to become specific and understand what I mean. In April - this April that passed us - I told you from Mytilini that the solution is one, one and only, to stop migration and refugee flows within Turkey. It was a concrete proposal, a concrete suggestion to the government to try through Europe to claim to stop the refugee flows before the world starts to drown in the Aegean. The answer then, on the SYRIZA side, was very clear: that these are extreme right-wing positions and that no intervention can be made. And the Prime Minister is now coming, after so many months, after all these problems, since the islands have been immersed in the problems, so the Prime Minister will tell us to shift the burden towards the Turkish coast and to control the refugees in the inland Turkey. That is how it should be, but you must admit that we have lost valuable soil, valuable months and should have done that since the beginning of spring. To correct, of course, a mistake made by the Prime Minister: he said that it is too heavy a burden for Germany. He specifically mentioned the number of one million refugees. One million refugees to the eighty million inhabitants. And here we have five hundred thousand refugees in ten million. The weight, that is, with simple mathematics, is four times greater for our country. The burden is not greater for Germany, it is greater for Greece. Of course, we agree that the effort is to save human lives, to provide security and dignity for refugees and, of course, to close where we can and can - not just us, all of Europe, all of the Western world - some refugee-born fronts. But let's go to the bill we're talking about today. Today the extension of measures to ensure that 23% of private education does not apply. Of course, the equivalents were not found. Mr. Friend in a speech said that the equivalents would be found and enough tax evasion cases to cover the amount. The four cases of tax evasion, apparently, were not detected, and so there are no equivalents and return to the same old argument: we did not want the tax. We've been imposed on him. I should remind all of us that Mr Moscovisi's representative, at the beginning of September, said clearly that this tax was not a proposal from the European Union, it was not a proposal from our partners, a decision from the Greek Government, which he thought would hit the rich people who send their children to the private schools. But for the government of SYRIZA - I'll always blame someone else. Another convenient and vague evil always pushes them into a bad decision. We need to make savings. We're all talking about it. We therefore say that if we really want to lighten the Greek people from the burdens of the memoranda, we must look at the corner of power in the penthouses of power. We need to change the state, we need to abolish everything that is heavy and useless, that does not serve the citizen and gives the party mechanisms, the party overruled. Less ministries, less general secretaries. I told you again, we have seventy - eight secretaries, when France and the sixfold population have fifteen general secretaries. We call on the Government to bring to the House a full list of posted civil servants employed by the parties, the House and the MPs. In the last record, held in June 2004, there were two thousand people, two thousand civil servants in the parties, the MPs and the parliament. Today, how many are there? We call on the parties to make a deal. We also call on the government to agree, at the beginning of the next training year, at least half of the teachers who are in the parties, the Members of Parliament, to have returned to their schools. Let's start with half and then move on to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, why is the property of the public not being exploited today and yesterday? Hundreds of public buildings are destroyed, destroyed, abandoned, and the state budget wastes millions of euros on rent. The Ministry of the Environment is housed in nineteen different buildings and gives rents of 2 million. The corresponding amount of the Ministry of Finance is 24 million, 24 million for rents. Services say that out of the eighty thousand state-owned properties twenty-eight properties are imprisoned. I will not go into the bill in detail. I will try to be brief over time. Besides, they were so detailed, as the Potamian speakers do. And now, we learn that Mr Alexiades has accepted our proposal - and it is good - to withdraw the provision allowing for late statements during the checks. He therefore practically accepted our position, developed by Mr Theocharis, that this provision did favour tax evasion and corruption. I saw the mayors of Eastern Attica, as it seems. I do not know if they are pleased with this amendment that Mr Kurublis said, but they denounce something specific, that with Article 13 and the exemption of companies from the payment of fees, specific companies and particular interests are served. It is a complaint from the mayors of Attica and of course not from our mayors - some are also committed to SYRIZA. So there are the questions: why is this amendment? Where does he give the tens of millions? I think, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL, that instead of trying all this time to shield yourself against corruption, clean up your own house, you have made yourself smuggling the opponents and, above all, the Potami. You used to revive and develop a belief in your constituents that there are worse ones. You yelled to be afraid. Now I think you should give some specific explanations about the technical companies of the Ministers. I am not only talking about 'from the outset' - but about 'from the outset' - I am talking about the technical companies of the Ministers and about all these minor or major shortcomings in the documents that your ministers and Members should have submitted. [[At this point, the closing bell of the party president's speaking time hits a warning bell.]] But why such contempt for procedures? Let me tell you why. I don't think it's a question of corruption. I want to be honest. It is, however, a concept of the new regime that 'who will control us', 'who will intervene', 'what does all this matter?' From the NSA, slowly, in all its positions of responsibility, there are some children who will see things differently, our children. I therefore believe that this concept of a regime that starts to be created in SYRIZA and the ANELs creates the ground for small ones at first and then greater concessions to corruption. And I think no one's taken the vaccine. I say to Mr Tsipras, who said: 'Do not say this on the left'. How? Where does this start? Is there a vaccine against corruption, should we take it to the rest of the House? [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is ringing The Potami]] I think that we should all protect Parliament and the policy of small and large corruption that existed and continue to appear. I want, ladies and gentlemen, to address those who continue to talk about the river without asking what the river says. The Europeans in the last few days want us with SYRIZA. Some press bands want us with PASOK. And some of SYRIZA's gentlemen want us with the New Democracy. But the river has other footage. I will repeat what we have been talking about twenty months ago - because we have not changed our minds so often: we have not entered the policy to become winners either of PASOK or of the New Democracy or of SYRIZA. We think we have the solutions. We think we have proposals. We think we have faces too. And we believe in a useful policy, and we have proved it. We were not afraid in the past seven months to help the government and in the House and in Brussels, and at the same time to hit the government at points where we thought the ministers were going back for many years. And that is what we will continue to do in this House too, we will be normal and we will defend self-evident. We signed a proposal for a roll-call vote with PASOK today. We had passed with SYRIZA the legislation on citizenship against New Democracy. We've agreed with the JRC. We'll disagree with the JRC. I refer to the JRC as the most cleaner ideological party in the House. That'll be our behavior. We don't demonize our opponents. But we demand concrete answers every time. We don't moralize and we don't think we're infallible. So we will not make the easy opposition, which wants or 'yes' to everything or 'no' to everything. I would recommend that Members of this House think that they should not be applauded. I am not saying that they should, of course, throw their government down, but it would not be wrong to differentiate and push on individual issues. The days are difficult and it is imperative that we do not act like flocks either in one direction or another. And it's not all red lines. So we must have the bravery to look outside the lines of our lands. And the river, in persuasiveness of all those who insist on asking for a clear, black and white word, wants to say: we are clear, but we will never be black and white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u620	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has been speaking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Brutsi, will you make your intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u622	Yeah, I'll do my intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u623	I was just saying that she wouldn't leave...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u624	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the combination of the Prime Minister's presence and what he said in relation to the bill we are discussing is a new political environment. I will not talk about the morality of the Left, I will talk about new parliamentary practices that we live and are well-known and I am explaining: they are unprecedented, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that no one wants to prejudge or bad fellow Members or Ministers yet the Prime Minister from a step of the House comes and prejudges decisions of the independent institutions, such as those of the Committee of Independents. If it's something that acquiescites the ministers, that's what the committees will do, not the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u625	You're doing exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u626	This is to get us to know, because this is an unacceptable political behaviour, which leads to conclusions and a political environment, which creates opaqueness and a return to the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u627	You're the one who's in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u628	Secondly, the result is this: the new parliamentary customs that we have been living in for nine months is that we have been living in the environment of 'I have said'. SYRIZA, before the January-September elections, was in the sense of 'I said-out.'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u629	Don't take him off a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u630	Now we are living the new one, 'I am voting - I am voting'. And that on its own, maybe, for you, doesn't say anything. I want you to know, however, that this is a political breakthrough. We as a New Democracy and the previous government which we have fought for two and a half years to keep Greece upright and have done so in the best way and have brought results...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u631	The best!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u632	... never were the former government's MPs led by the parties that supported it at this shameful point to get back the bills they voted on. Keep it, it's important. It will benefit you for the future if you become careful and gain credibility and seriousness. And a little on the substance, Mr President, because it is very important. I am not questioning the crucial and major issues raised by the Prime Minister for immigration. Of course they are very important. But it took too much time for an update from Brussels - and it did well to inform the Greek Parliament - but it left very little time to inform the Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u633	Just the opposite did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u634	...for the Greek people who have been "doing" for three days in Parliament, following the debate and learning the painful pension and tax measures that really come into an environment very difficult. And he showed that the Prime Minister is elsewhere. Because I could understand in a way a position, even if it were a few minutes, in an accounting logic, that, yes, we have made mistakes but it is necessary to take measures so that we can move on to a climate of fiscal consolidation that will come from growth. Instead of saying that, he criticised the opposition parties. A few days ago and while this is the first bill of the new government of SYRIZA that comes to Parliament, instead of placing itself in the logic that it left as a line after the elections to the parallel programme, Mr President, on the immortalities of which you went to the elections, instead of coming today and presenting to the Greek people, as promised, what are the equivalents for 23% of VAT in education - let him ask the friend of his Minister - he said he had found three major cases of tax evasion, Mr Alexiadis, which was his equivalent. Where's that? Why didn't the Prime Minister present it? Or to tell us by Mr Apostle, the Minister for Rural Development, who came and left and was not put on the record, what is the equivalent of 26% for the taxation of farmers and the triple-flooding of farmers' contributions, which was, in the run-up to the election, committed to bringing it and there is at the moment a great turbulence throughout the rural world. And here comes the Agriculture Minister and all he does is take lessons to the parliamentary group on supposedly future negotiations in one of his own context. But he's come to convince us? Let him go and convince the troika. Because if she were convinced of what she said to the Greek Parliament, she would come today and say that there is no such tax on farmers. The Prime Minister should say - and he should justify, on the occasion of the first bill of the new SYRIZA government - that there is a specific reason why tickets are increasing by 10%. You think that's how these will pass? Do you think that just because you have moved for seven months into an environment that has not been politically touched - and proves it the result of the elections - will you continue to go on the same path and incriminate the opposition because it does not indicate what to do? You're responsible. Your measures, you negotiated them, you will take the snake out of the hole, because this account, the unjust account in January would not have been paid by the Greek people, nor by taxes or pensions! This account is unfair, Mr President. These are measures which we could have avoided. But today, we're paying for it because of you. And it also opens up the large capital of the insurance company, a fund for which we have to say a great deal. And do not think that you will escape with the communication toys of Mr Katrugalos' committees, with the names and verbal formulas for the Committee of Wise Men. This is not a Committee of Wise Men! This is the Katrugalou committee. I do not want to degrade or underestimate the dignity and knowledge of the people who participated in this committee, but listen to me. Even her finding had the courage to come and testify to the Greek Parliament, to learn from the Greek MPs. That's why I'm going to testify to this, so you'll be informed by Census. Please come and get the conclusion of the committee, in which it is worth two or three things, to reveal the truths, as it should be, and to end with fairy tales. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Brutsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is not a new architecture of the insurance policy. Financial adjustment makes and tries, under the outcry of the world and fear to bring new pension reductions, unfair, unjust and unnecessarily, horizontal, to make the invention of communication and under the cloak of a committee to find the trick to find a new pension reduction mechanism. This conclusion that I have tabled at the moment - and I would ask you very much to take it - on page 17 and 18, contrary to what Mr Katrugalos claimed yesterday, has two elements: Firstly, it introduces two crucial issues. To cover the financial problem of the insurance company, it imposes a real estate tax. You know that, Mr. Alexiadis? You know he wants to tax real estate with a new ERVIA?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u635	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u636	The second element is that it introduces the assets as an assessment criterion for the payment of the pension. This is unprecedented and unprecedented for an insurance system in Europe. And although he refused it yesterday - the income criteria - I must say that it is also cross-checked with page 1020 of the memorandum, signed by your Government and accepted income criteria for the payment of pensions. Let's not hide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u637	Everything that's of interest to you is reading from the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u638	That's one truth. No, I'm not interested in anything. I say exactly what it says: page 1020 of the memorandum and page 18 of the findings of the Katrugalo Committee. Assets and income criteria to cover the insurance. And the paradox is that this committee has neither a simulation nor a proportionate study. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because it has created a great deal of inconvenience to all pensioners, you must come as soon as possible to clarify them. You have signed in Memorandum 1.25% adjustment from a reduction in insurance costs, pension expenditure, i.e. EUR 2.2 billion. You are obliged to explain to the Greek people where you will find the EUR 2.2 billion, in addition to what you have done so far, that is to say, beyond the horizontal reduction of 2% in the main pensions, 6% in the subsidiary, the abolition of the CSR, the tripling of farmers' contributions, the reduction of the minimum pensions. Apart from that, there is 1.25% of GDP. You are obliged, Mr Minister of Social Security, to come and take the floor from the Step of the House, because you have upset all workers and pensioners, who now see that they have no future. And they trusted you in the logic - as my colleagues from New Democracy have said - of the thirteenth pension, the reinstatement of pensions at the initial level, the increase in employment. And for that, unfortunately, because we all live in Greece and we want the good of our country, the good of our country, and because we had arrived somewhere in balance, and you have broken it all down in seven months, you are obliged to come and explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u639	Mr. Loverdos has the floor, Mr. Tsakalotos, for a brief legal intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u640	Mr President, I would like to make a legal correction to Rule 20, which concerns Members, because it relates to operating conditions and procedures for monitoring wines and other beverages, to which excise duty is not levied. It's not something that needs a conversation. I put it before Members, and I would ask him to share it with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u641	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u642	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's argument on the attitude of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR, but also on the whole of the opposition to this draft law has a very large dose of political micro-purpose. It comes without a picture of the discussions that have taken place here, as he said, to tell us about our attitude. It comes to characterise a political attitude of national responsibility that we have held as a party. Although we have many detained in SYRIZA since this five-year period, we have come here to show a sense of responsibility to four votes in Parliament when it needed - when the country needed its government - forgetting the title of the party and the name of the Prime Minister who is ruling. And he's coming now, beyond this petty, to talk. He reminded me of Papandreou and Papademos. For the time being, as far as Europeans are concerned, and the crisis speaks as Papandreou and Papademos. And it's time to speak as Venizelos. Get his speeches to see them. This is not the attitude of a responsible leader. It is not a responsible leader's attitude, when he has been calling us the same arguments for five years now. He needs a little contraction. On the subject of corruption, which he has used to cover the problem of collapsing with this legislative initiative, he tells us a number of amendments. Instead of telling us a number of amendments to'suspension of limitation', as they say - another is terminology - let us know about the delayed controls in 2015, which, with the Alexiadis table, were presented to Parliament. Let us know about this, in 2015, of delaying controls and results, and let us bring all the amendments it wants. After all, those who have experienced the Greek Parliament and the Greek politics from the field of science know that for two hundred years the political demagogue of the rulers has been carried out by law. Instead of doing what I have to do, I am making an amendment. Or like the press, I'm telling you about a law I'm bringing. Hey, let's finally get him to see him! I am, almost certain - at least my mind goes there - that what we will see on Monday and, as it will end up, does not serve the great, pompous arguments that you are articulating in your fight against corruption. And when it comes to, addressing the Opposition and, especially, we've been through so much, telling us about interests and everything, we have your picture in America. We know the faces and interests they support you. I am not saying badly or implying that you are corrupt. But don't make him too heavy. We've heard so many years! A little calm. With regard to the issues which he has presented, his ministers and in response he remembered Mr Tsukatos, I would like to say that the Tsukatos case is a 20-year-old case and has been brought to justice for these days. Your point was made by you from your old inner-party opposition. We had no idea. We heard from the TVs. It was your place that caused it. Don't make him smart here. Everything's obvious. We know them. In any case, if he had a briefing from his colleagues on how we were presently institutionalised, agreeing with the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Manda, he would keep a smaller basket and say less about the unfortunate examples he has used. Now let's go to the issues of the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, because there has been an intervention by Mr Koutsukou and I have seen that you have reacted reassuringly, I would like to tell you that you need to worry about something. In Article 21, which "strategorizes", which takes back the military settings, there is the case. When something is abolished in this draft law, in half of the cases you say that this is being abolished and that in other half is not what you say. Here, the case is very serious. It is the case where a retired person was given the opportunity to offset - in a future pensioner - his debts with the pensions he would receive. In our law in 2010, for which I am very proud, we put the limit of ten thousand, the Army did it twenty-five thousand and now you're pulling out twenty-five. As formulated, it seems empty. Looks like she's going to zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u644	Make an addition. Some people don't mind this addition. Listen to the Opposition when it works creatively. As far as Mr. Kurubli is concerned, we've been here for so many days. Last night the Minister for the Interior came, he said an amendment - adding - and indeed he said it nicely - and he left. But the whole House yesterday and today is talking about Article 13. And he told us he saw the president of the CEDEFOP, but he didn't tell us if the CEDEFOP agreed. We know that he has not agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u645	No, he hasn't agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u646	You have now made two improvements - we are evaluating them - in terms of cleanliness, which excludes it, and in terms of ratification of contracts. I have two comments to make on this. Why do you exclude cleanliness? That needs an explanation. Take the floor to tell us. You poorly exclude her. But tell us why you exclude it. Secondly, why do you exclude other contracts, other than those that come to Parliament, to be ratified? Have you felt the cost of this exception? Have you counted it? If you've counted it, what is it? In addition, Mr Theochère's intervention. I'm transferring it because it's loans. I didn't think about it. You say: 'except for contracts ratified by Parliament under formal law'. The ones that were ratified? The wording raises a question of interpretation for a legal person. Will he think 'what does the legislator mean now? Does it mean what is to be ratified or what the law stipulates to be ratified?’ Make a clarification here, too. Finally, because you say in the report...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u647	Excuse me, Andreas. Contracts ratified by Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u648	'Validated by Parliament'. It wants, as a wording, correction. You'll put two more words in and you'll solve it. If you don't, you'll get some people confused. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, now the Minister for the Interior is listening to what rules the Tsipra Memorandum, the inappropriate one, applies. "To eliminate - our side, that is, the Greek - non-reimbursable fees and align the compensation fees with the services provided." It's called rationalization, it's not about taking responsibility and services and excluding them. What you're doing here is 'hand up and take'. And I am glad that you applaud the Keratsinis and the Peramas, and I am pleased to say that you are applauding them, but here you are getting the resources from the resources that they do not have. Give an explanation of these, Minister, when your time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u649	We'll give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u650	I have taken the floor, Mr President, to refer to Mr Kurublé, but the procedure, as you have followed, gives me the floor. You will give me the opportunity to say two things about what I particularly want to talk about, as a Parliamentary representative, and if you are going to remove my teratology, remove it from me. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking in this Chamber for four days today - a committee and a plenary - on the economy. I mean, other issues we kept for the committee to make some improvements to the law. Many parties contributed. There were improvements and each speaker said: 'In the time available to me today, to say the other,' because there was no time for everything. I kept the insurance business for my speech today. I have exhausted the other provisions, what I have to say and I have kept the issue of insurance, a very big issue, which I have often heard from majority Members, not everyone - but some Members of the majority - talk about the fact that there is an empty time here, that we are speaking astronomically, as if we were not in 2015, October and with this draft law in this House. Words, words, words. Speech is good, but the opposition of the government is not the words of counterpopulation. The facts are the opposition to the government, and this is a legal fact. Soon there will also be a social event when it is implemented. And what does this legislative attempt say? What does it say to some people not to get caught up, my child, when they take the floor from this Step? First of all, there's a background that's coming here today. It has the vote on the third memorandum, the unnecessarily unnecessarily, where the krone of politics, Minister, as you will well know, is to help the insurance company, which has so many problems, is the application of the law of my own and Mr Kutrumani, of the n. 2863/2010, for which you were pre-collecting us. I used to sit there and sit there then. I remember them as all now. I remember your Prime Minister's words. Let it be. Let's go down. Now, here's what you complained about, you say in your memorandum that it's alpha and omega to take a next step. Let's go down. Did you close it there? Oh, no. In the third Memorandum of Tsipra you received 2.5 billion from the main pensions. That's a vote. And even though these have happened, ladies and gentlemen, to the first Ministerial Council a few days ago, the Minister of Labour and Social Security appears in the media and says: "I will find money from changes in the system's architecture and not from horizontal cuts such as you." He's already gone horizontally 2.5 billion. And he comes here today with Article 1(5) of the draft law - see it - to make the first horizontal cut before he even reaches his design in the House organised in November.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u651	Mr. Loverdo, as you can see, dentistry is over. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u652	You'll give me two minutes, please. In Rule 1(5), ladies and gentlemen, we have 10% of the horizontal reduction in those who have been retired, pre-retired and until they reach the age limits of the first paragraphs of Article 1, namely the sixty-seven. Are we serious? In words, nothing comes out. Here there are specific legislative initiatives. In Article 1(3), which you will vote on in roll-call votes, however, you will raise your hand and say 'yes'. In Article 1(3), you say'sixteenth Seventh'. We optionally put it in the sixty-seventh. On a voluntary basis, we put it for anyone who wants to stay and you denounced us. You now define it and say 'unfortunately and without a transition', which Mr Katrugalos has promised here, and I wonder why he does not put it in Article 1(3). In other words, one who fills the age limit in two months, in January 2016, will eat eleven or twelve years in the head, and he will have to look at you with gratitude for the intervention you have made, opening the insurance in January alone with unwise interventions and thoughts and now paying the fee, not you - you will politically pay it in your time - but the Greek insured, the Greek citizen. We are calling on the Minister yesterday and we have also called on him to have a debate and vote on the constitutionality of the provision on mature expectation, as we have said - the Minister to add three transitional words so that he can remove extreme injustices and thus improve his legislative initiative. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that insurance is a very serious issue. You've all said that. We're all talking about it. They don't need a lot of words. You should know one thing. After the legislative intervention in 2010, which will certainly have to be improved every year, and since Mr Brutsis, who has been honouring him for what he has done, has tried to digitize the issues relating to undeclared work and unemployment - not to monitor the statistics of the National Statistical Authority or OAED - but to monitor the Ministry to have a political picture - after we have seen employment start and increase, the work and reduces undeclared work, so the insurance is earned and, since we have had 0.8% growth - the Minister of Finance accepts it in the preliminary draft budget and, as we know, everyone anticipated a little more and, therefore, revenues from the insurance funds - we stop at 'experience Tsipras', we turn to the recession and for 2015 and for 2016, we turn to an increase in unemployment, since we did not like the stepping stone - step and we wanted magic solutions and we have reached a point to say: we will make a new insurance. We'll do what? Tell us what Sages? What can a Wisdom, a smart man, an educated, an experienced lawyer, a good politician - accept it when he has no money? What can he say when he doesn't have growth? Do you know what he can say, colleagues? What you're doing. Only cuts can be said to have gold, to be able to golden it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ending this evening with the vote. You will see, Mr President, how many arrangements we will be voting on. Let us say, with the Panayotopoulos speeches and with the information he has given us, we shall vote on Article 8. We are concerned about Article 3. We have thought positively, Mr. Minister, Mr. Alexiadis. It's not you. We are aware of our patriotic duty and duty towards Greek citizens. Hold your tongue a little. Pick up your words a little. Words walk and create problems that are not only manifested now, but will also manifest themselves in the future. We'll find solutions where you're in the mood to find them. But don't make fun of anyone. The people know the truth and, indeed, very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u653	Mr President, may I make a statement if I may?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u654	Please, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u655	In relation to what Mr Bourras said earlier with the Minister, Mr Kurubli, we contacted the CEDEFOP and the CEDEFOP, Minister, does not agree with your amendment. The amendment is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u656	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u657	Mr President, the CEDEFOP visited me at noon on the occasion of the Ministry. We have had a very good conversation in a very good climate. So in the debate, Mr Patulis said to me that if the word 'cleanness' comes, we are fine. I put it. I don't know if the CDC decided anything else. I also spoke to Mr Patulis now, the man told me that there was a general decision to withdraw the article. I'm talking in good faith. I would like someone to tell me, after reading the entire provision of the article, as is finally formulated, whether there was a real gap in the previous regime - because tell me what is going on at the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport, so that I too, since you want to speak on clear terms - and if these provisions protect local government in the best way possible. But let someone speak to me in good faith, not in the logic 'I am making opposition to the opposition'. I think, as the provision finally states, that the rights of local government are best guaranteed, because it was possible not to be paid, Mr Brutsis, for millions from this company to the Greek public. Now, in this way, by the provision in which all these rights exist, they have to be paid. That's the difference. From that point on, everyone says what they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u658	It's backwards!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u659	Mr. Bourra, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u660	Are you kidding us? Mercy! For the first time, discharge leads to payment!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u661	What I'm telling you! The provision, if you read it, says that for the first time the State obliges these gentlemen, the money ordered by final judgments - and not millions of VAT had been submitted - to be demanded and paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u662	Until when are you going to be working with us? If that's possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u663	You're always working for us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u664	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u665	I would like to pay your attention to tabling the amendment in general number 4 and expert number 4, following on from what the Prime Minister has said and with great personal pleasure and emotion. The amendment briefly extends by one year the possibility for the public to carry out a tax audit in cases that have already been issued with control orders or public prosecutor orders or in cases which are issued with control orders or public prosecutor orders by 31-12-2015. I think that this amendment is definitively closing down a major problem, which has existed and emerged these days. I hope it will be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u666	Mr. Danellis has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u667	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome the announcement by the Minister for Legislation which he brings to prevent the limitation of any offences on the Lagard list or any lists. However, the famous intensification of controls, which is being delayed, does not seem to be the case with the elements that have been given us. We also welcome the Prime Minister's announcement that the legislation on the licensing of television stations is coming on Monday. Let me remind you that we, the Potami, had asked to come when we discussed the ERT bill. All right, so the hostage will be over again. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we all honour ourselves in talking about morality. Ethics never helped politics and was usually a hypocrisy cover. The self-sufficient concept of moral superiority on the left did not help her and does not help her. The age of innocence has long passed and no donation stamp has been available, as it has never had. Only the adequacy of institutions and their strict compliance protect democracy and the public interest, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, following the systematic cultivation of illusions - which lasted for years - the impact has occurred with reality. In addition, we see that we are talking in peace today and will decide to take extremely painful measures, without encircling the House of Greeks with angry crowds. And that's what he says. The apprentice magicians, unfortunately, were unable to turn coal into gold, and today we will decide on the first group of extremely painful measures accompanying the third memorandum, a memorandum that we could have avoided if the political system of the country showed greater responsibility and less tachographism, ladies and gentlemen, if they did what they did to all the other countries that entered into the adventure of support programmes, that is, if they were trying to reach an agreement. I fear that the government does not want consensus in fact. SYRIZA, after all, invested as opposition to divisive slogans. As the "first time left" government, he denied the consent offered to it, despite the attitude of national responsibility for the rescue of the country. He had a historic privilege, the Prime Minister, who didn't have any of his predecessors. He didn't take advantage of it. The limited government majority that the Greek people gave you in the last - unpleasant - elections, you interpret it as class, again investing in segregation and dissatisfaction. Note the illusion that the abhorrence of the old political system will constantly be a forgiveness either for your denominations of ministers and officials or for your false policy. Protect yourselves from arrogance and impartiality. He never helped anyone. Stop behaving as an Opposition at the same time, investing in divisive slogans. You're a second government and we have to finish with some fairy tales. If there were genuine resources available that would support equivalents or the famous parallel programme, why have they not been exploited to avoid unfair and isotope charges, which are contained and adopted in this bill? The river, ladies and gentlemen, has said that it will not vote for new taxes as long as tax evasion and tax fraud are not under arrest. Where's the revenue you expected from the fight against the smuggling into fuel? Ladies and gentlemen, it is a one-way road to speeding up your shift to realism. The signing of the agreement is not a bit of a win-win time until the next race with the partners. Overturning it in practice leads fatal to the exit, the drachma, the total catastrophe. The drachmas see it, Mr. Shoeble is waiting for it. Don't get them right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u668	Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u669	Thank you, Mr President. I wish - and I say this sincerely - to the thirty-five people referred to the Post Office case in order to find their point of view, and also to the Secretary-General of Income to find this right, to some arms dealers who have been confiscated, to find their point as well. I could mention infinite examples that mean that something has changed in this country and that Greek justice is moving. I took the floor - I did not intend to give a second answer - because, unfortunately, the word 'autocritical' is missing from this space, for too many people who have been ruling for more than thirty years. I listen very carefully and respectfully to some objections. First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that this government is listening. I was one of those who really wanted an amendment to Article 13. You got it. I wanted an amendment to Article 21. You got it. And another three, four amendments were also made, which means that this government is not monolithic. He's listening. But what I would like to focus on, because it made me a terrible impression: there has been a lot of talk about the Lagard list and other lists that would not be discussed, because it passes the two-month period, the quarter and the ends the story. I do not know if you will be convinced that this government is determined, because I believe that complexity and corruption do not help any growth. No one will come to invest in a country that is surrounded by an atmosphere, almost horizontally and vertically, corruption and interrelated. But what made me a terrible impression today - and I feel it is a section now, a revolutionary section in the Parliamentary Republic - is what it was fighting for - and I must acknowledge it - and the current President of the Republic of Prokopis Pavlopoulos, who was swept away when he brought the main shareholder for the media. Local media then found allies in Europe on a temporary basis. He couldn't do anything, although he was vindicated later. Today I listened with real enthusiasm to the Prime Minister of the country talking about a bill, which was also swept through. They have heard "Get it at last, blackmail" and stuff like that. I believe that this is below the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that for years, for decades - and I think that at some point you have all felt it - four, five canals with three, four bankers in fact ran the political world. No one can question it. I believe that all parties - not only us today, but you and the others yesterday - once felt what the media would say in our country. For those who do not remember, I would like to remind you that in charge of the BBC, which had come ten years ago, he said that Greece only survives one and a half years ago. We have more than six, seven, eight. I would also like to remind you that in all the election campaigns - and not only the three that have been lately, where we have felt the ever-poweredness of the media - and you have felt this all-powerfulness. Prime Ministers, Ministers, etc. have been changed. You saw individuals who didn’t count and some capable of throwing them away. And among your own parties - I do not want to say names - there are people who respect them and are decommissioned today because they were telling truths. So it's time. I welcome, as a revolutionary move, the Prime Minister's announcement a little while ago, that on Monday this terrible bill is coming for consultation. There may be a tendency to re-engage. There is no trend of rehabism and there must be no one. It's not about punishing someone, it's about putting order. The rule of the Parliamentary Republic is essential for the media. Above all, we have absolutely nothing with any worker in these instruments nor even with their owners. We believe that there should be rules on the market. We need to, everybody in here to help with these rules. I have heard some Members of the Officer's Representation and some others say "We do not deal with it" etc. No, you will come and talk in detail, shield the Parliamentary Republic. At one time, politics must go beyond businessmen. It's our debt and a unique opportunity to do it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u670	Thank you to Mr Papachristopoulos for keeping time. Mr. Karras has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u671	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, and yesterday, the Central Association, with its small parliamentary power, tried to contribute to this debate in Parliament. We will even try to contribute today. In summary, I will make a few comments in the bill under discussion. There's a gap left in Article 13. I have listened very carefully to the debate on municipal tax in Article 13. Mr Kourublis is absent, but I would ask Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Alexiades, who have a relevant competence over taxation, to follow it. So there has been a legislative improvement of Mr Kurubli's clean-up fee. Does that mean that the municipal tax, electricity supply charges and lighting charges are exempted? This has not been answered, Mr President, because it has been mentioned in the 1958 Municipal Tax Ordinance. Is it therefore to be understood that only cleaning charges are exempted on their part and that other taxes remain, or are they to be interpreted as meaning that no municipal tax is imposed on the whole? It is an issue which I believe will be brought before the courts very soon, as has been set out in the HOCHTIEF conventions and all of this. If Mr. Kurublis was here, we could have an answer. The next issue is Article 13. I shall now proceed briefly, Mr President, to Rule 17. I said yesterday. The burden of the Greek State of 465 million on OSE’s and TRAINOSE’s debt takeovers from the Greek State, and the 250 million granted in the next five years for the provision of railway work by OSE and TRAINOSE as a public service? Is there something undercover? That's not what he answered either. On the contrary, I do not know whether this proposed provision has worked positively, and I am now reading to the valid 'KATHMERINA' that it withdraws its interest in participating in the tender for the privatisation of the OSE by the Russian railway company. It is an issue which raises many questions to me. Is the withdrawal temporary in the light of the State’s commitment? Is it final to be replaced by someone else? I don't know. An important issue that we also did not receive a reply - and I raised it yesterday and I will insist today, Mr President - is that of Article 20 on winegrowing. Today I see that, with an addition, the Minister for Rural Development adds a fourth regulatory decision. A significant sector of the economy cannot be referred to regulatory decisions without a contour. This provision is unconstitutional. She'll be judged in court too. It is indeed unconstitutional because it does not have the minimum scope of legislation. All the wings of the House are trying to contribute to maintaining their jobs and their insurance rights, young lawyers and young engineers. We fear that the majority will be negative, not to say the word 'explainable'. I don't get used to it. An issue was raised earlier by Mr Alexiadis if I am not mistaken. The right to control is extended and the limitation is extended for one year. I've got another void here. With the extension of the limitation - constitutional or anti-constitutional, will it be decided - and will the ILO's right to continue its checks or be transferred to the General Secretariat, as simple information documents, and again in a year, which will be the subject of limitations, will we look again at them, Mr Alexiadis? Please, look at it. You know that. It's very important. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say this. I also heard Mr Tsironi at noon and I was really sorry about his speech. I was hoping that a minister from a field of activism could contribute. What did I hear? I heard he lacks environmental inspectors, administrative officials, that we need to appoint, that we need to raise the public. Let's do it. However, I have heard nothing from the Minister for the Environment, Energy, Technology and all these responsibilities he has to deal with a dot for the economic development of the country. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that. There is another issue. I don't want to be negative, but I'm forced to be negative. There is another issue, which has been raised by many of my dear colleagues, about the change in the financial framework. I said yesterday it was premature. We do not have the findings of the current application of the n. 4270, to know whether it has succeeded or failed, to talk about a number of amendments, which, if you like, create a stir, Mr Ministers of Economic Affairs, in the new economic environment, which we all want to create. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have said, Mr President, that with all these thoughts, although we have tried to participate in the debate and, if possible, with our small parliamentary force, constructively, we have failed to do so and have said that we will vote against the articles as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u672	A little room for the MPs. Mr Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u673	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there is little room for MPs too! Ladies and gentlemen, having listened to most of the views of today's sitting, but also to the committee procedure, I should like first of all to address my colleagues in the opposition and to ask them to stop the crocodile tears. In this Chamber, your criticism of the measures is too much, but it is not enough to delete its facts. It is not enough for the Greek people to forget who made this bill necessary. Because you were the ones who, with your dreadful policies and the corrupt state you created, led the country to overcompensation and the need for painful agreements. Do not forget, ladies and gentlemen, the measures contained in today's bill are the measures adopted in the August 2015 Agreement. It is at least hypocritical to tell us that you did not vote for the measures, but the European perspective of the country. The measures, as Mr Alexiadis said, are on pages 1015 to 1020 of the agreement. Isn't that right, Minister? In fact, when you electionally told us to cooperate, what measures would you vote on? Would you vote for other measures? So selfish? Just for the chairs? Is that what you're interested in? These measures would be voted on! So, what do you want to tell us? That we did not support the European perspective of the country and brought the agreement, why did we like the measures? Besides, I would like to remind you that we are not the ones who said that, if there were no Memorandum, we should discover it or we are the ones who said we would not let Tomsen take us away from glory. Your ministers had said that. And because you tell us about the equivalents, and where are the equivalents and where is the parallel programme, I would like to remind you again that the country's governance has now begun this time after 20 September. Our programming positions were submitted a few days ago. We have four years to see you too, but above all, the Greek people will see the parallel program that we promised and will bring. I would also like to remind you that we have reached a comprehensive solution to the financing of the country, contrary to the Yunger proposal, which at the time you were telling the world to vote on, a solution which has already imposed a minimal restructuring of debt and immediately after the first assessment will open up the debate on its final settlement. Is that the debt you presented to us as sustainable - remember? - while all international bodies now recognize the need to restructure it. You can also avoid the fact that by supporting the referendum "yes" you asked the Greek people to consent to tougher measures and with less prospects for the country, without any possibility of negotiating and without a comprehensive solution for the country's definitive exit from the crisis. Even today and at the moment our government is negotiating on all fronts to improve the difficult aspects of this bill. We have negotiated the taxation of rents and have withdrawn the contested provision. It is true, and here we have to admit that certain regulations on the insurance system are unfair and far from our own viewpoint, such as a sharp increase in the age limits for retirement. But here we must all agree that it is a social and reasonable requirement to stop early retirement and to rationalise the insurance system, an insurance system that has come here because of the policies that have been pursued so far and have plundered it for the benefit of some. These policies have been implemented by you. The maritime loans, structured bonds, the PSI are policies that dissolved the insurance system. Of course, there are many structural problems. However, thanks to our negotiation and regardless of the opinion of the Sage Committee, which reminds us - and the Minister said so - that it is an opinion, it is not a government policy - is it not, Mr Secretary-General? - the right has been retained for our country and for the insured to become an integrated and radical restructuring for an insurance system that is fair and sustainable. We're waiting to see it. We'll be here and we'll all be judging it. This multi-legislative bill has no practical or ideological relationship with the armaged people you comfortably brought to the House, because this bill introduces a different logic to tax administration for the first time. We aim to rationalise the concept of the fine, to tax compliance of those who owe it and not to further economic invasion. And because I have no time and I always want to be consistent, I will end up by saying: ladies and gentlemen, this multi-brand plan is a step towards a definitive solution to the short debt, which you have so far been baptising sustainable. We will take this step, with full consciousness of the difficulties it will cause the citizens. We will take this step while bearing in mind the need to bring measures that relieve society and restore social justice. Society has understood and understood the difficulties and has given us the authority to move forward. We're waiting for you to follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u674	Until Stepma, Mr. Vardakis, has the floor for sixty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u675	The previous speaker referred to the Minister for the Environment, accusing him of'state'. It means that there is a favoured state with fourteen environmental inspectors can control or with fifteen - twenty construction inspectors going to all the islands and looking at urban illegality. Take the decision. As long as you dismantle this public, you are destroying the private initiative, because there are two pounds: Or there will be lawlessness, because no one will control the illegality, or you will assign to expensive private individuals this task that the state is unable to do. Pick where we are at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u676	Mr Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u677	I really didn't mean to talk, because I had already been covered in all the issues contained in the new bill since yesterday, but the challenge - believe me - is great. I have heard the New Democracy colleagues tell us that we must not be forgotten. Others spoke of the country’s social fabric. And they were right. Indeed, we must not be forgotten. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you can be sure that we will not let all of you forget what you have done and impoverished the Greek people, a proud Greek people, who, with the policies pursued, led him to the tartars. Recitals of lies, hypocrisy, irony, asshole and other cosmic attacks on the government and MPs of SYRIZA have been heard in the last days by the MPs of Antipopulation. Ladies and gentlemen, eight months have gone wrong, but at the moment it is important who is denounced, who is pulling our fingers, who are teaching us moral democracy and equality. Those who may not yet understand that the elections have ended and are breaking out of this one. Their garments are taking part in election talks even today. "We are," says the New Democracy, "ready to get out of the crisis." With broken insurance funds. On the 28th of January, three days after the elections, they give from the State General Accountancy inability to pay pensions of 560 million. One-and-a-half million unemployed, three million below the poverty line, thousands of businesses with a paddock, thousands of citizens in the piles, a humanitarian social crisis, and we would be on the market. These were the primary surpluses! And they abdicate the current government, instead of demanding a great apologies from the Greek people for those who in the last fifteen years have taken no action in favour of the Greek people. Tell me one! I challenge you to tell me a measure that you have taken in favour of the Greek people. You have abolished all concepts of law, sent our children migrants, taxed even stables and abandoned us today. You removed 40% with 50% of the income of Greek workers. Listen! When Mr Samaras told Thessaloniki that uninsured people will receive full medical care, you have charged with a responsible statement of the hospitals uninsured with tens of millions of euros. Ten million euros are uninsured. Mr Minister, you have this in mind, because at some point these people's debts will be confirmed in the tax office. They were given a responsible statement about the hospitals. You are calling reforms of redundancies, the closure of ERT, the Municipal Police, the sale of the Post Treasury, the Rural, the OPAP, the state undone. Unemployment, tax raid, corruption, complexity, tax evasion, tax evasion, all this created the social ruins you delivered to us. Mr Brutsis is not here to tell us who cut the unemployment benefit and the rent subsidy from self-financed funds. Listen! Self-financed funds and rental allowance and unemployment benefit. Money from the Greek people. And you're talking about social sensitivity. You triumph for the minimum guaranteed income. Not many people know that, but I'll say it tonight. What was the biggest scandal in the last decade? It was the closure of the AIF and the workplace with more than 6.5 billion employees' contributions, after you cut employers' contributions. Here you are responsible, Mr. Ministers, to investigate where the money went. You've got a lot of responsibility, right away. I don't want to say inaccurate, but it might be 9.5 billion. Previously, the Prime Minister told us about the Tsukatos scandal of a million. A drop in the ocean in front of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the courage must sometime stop. SYRIZA did not destroy Greek society, the Greek people in eight months. Let me just say one more thing. They disabled local control mechanisms. Today we are all invoked for VAT in Santorini and Mykonos. Can anyone tell me if there is a control mechanism when the state's only control mechanism for tax evasion has already been abolished, the EEAS? Who's doing the tests? The Labour Inspectorate by two o'clock at noon? That is why uninsured work has already exceeded 30%. You have abolished pensions for uninsured over-ages and you leave us today and you are being cut off. Hypocrisy in all her majesty. Be sure to find equivalent, because when we reintroduced this measure, we have shown our sensitivities to society as a whole. We have sensitivities, because we listen to society, because we are society. You have sold out the Agricultural Fund, 90 million to 5 billion scandals, no infrastructure in the primary sector, and you have cancelled the olive-vehicle register, leading to the subsidies of a few who were undisputedly witnessed by the olive-vehicle register, the air-vehicles they were writing. That's where the subsidies went. You have failed the programmes of young farmers, you have also led to 'family' pockets. And you are now being cut off for farmers, after you have dismantled and completely devalued the primary sector. Now you remembered the farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has closed once and for all the door to bankruptcy and out of the euro. The aim is now the best future for the Greeks and our country. Greek citizens spoke in the elections on 20 September with their vote, giving a clear answer to whom they trust. Those who have created the crisis or those who have stubbornly fought and continue to fight against the interests that have brought the country into this situation? They chose SYRIZA for the prospect of getting out of the crisis. The strong mandate for a just state is clear. We are ending with corruption, complexity, and we are moving in the direction of democracy, law and human rights. Today, then, we are called upon to vote on the measures for the implementation of the budgetary and structural reforms agreement. The draft legislation introduces the introduction of a truly fair tax system, which combats tax evasion and at the same time distributes burdens to citizens on the basis of the redistribution of income. This system involves the tax compliance of offenders and not their financial extermination. We give seven billion in the next period, for public debts by 2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u678	Mr Colleague, since you've been covered, as you said, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u679	The Lagard list isn't deleted. We negotiate red loans, we protect the first residence, we secure additional funds of 2 billion via the NSRF, with the first 350 million for small and new businesses directly next week. A rational framework for the imposition of fines at the same time. The debt write-down debate is starting. Because we have to put brakes on those who dream of a few Greece, we must at the same time describe the society we are fighting for. This society cannot be a society of solidarity, democracy, equal rights and equal opportunities. We are committed to this Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u680	Mrs Zaroulia has the floor. After that, the President, Mr. Leventis, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u681	Thank you very much. The whole scene between New Democracy and SYRIZA, when speakers rotated, reminds me of the saying "two donkeys were fighting in a foreign barn". After five years of harsh memorialism, the level of private sector, the collapse of the small and medium-sized businessman, the simple trader, the farmer, the free trader, you, the first and second times the left, the so-called wars of capitalism, and you are now bringing a multi-branded plan that is a gravel of the small and medium-sized businessman. You do nothing other than your predecessors, no originality. You're predictable. Have the rapporteurs and authors of this multi-project wondered what is the Greek citizen's tax ability today, after five years of disastrous memorial? It is clear that you are following the same path as the previous governments, with the ultimate aim of impoverishing citizens to the service of lenders. With this bill you are making judicious one second of Greek society, knowing that citizens' tax capacity has been nullified, due to the shrinking of the market by the closure of thousands of businesses. What you are trying to do is intimidate society and prevent entrepreneurship. Know that we clearly agree on the legitimate functioning of the State, the avoidance of tax evasion, the optimum functioning of the tax system. All of this is accelerating in a healthy economic environment with increased productivity, growing entrepreneurship, reduced unemployment and above all with tax rates, reflecting the citizens' tax capacity. You are not going to get out of this. All you will achieve is to turn society against you, outraged by the people he trusted you with his vote, and of course you misled him once again. You drive pensioners and wage earners to slow death by constantly establishing reductions in wages, pensions and deferral delays. It is most admirable to tell the Greek people that the insurance funds are bankrupt and that all interventions aim to extend their life. You cannot understand that the only way to revive the insurance funds is by means of a vertical increase in employment, through business and investment, and the influx of money, through insurance contributions. The mismanagement, smuggling of public money, poor assessment, is a unique factor in the economic disaster that has occurred in the insurance funds. According to the most recent data from the funds, of the total of three hundred and fifty thousand debtors who settled debts amounting to EUR 6.1 billion, except for regulation at the end of September, approximately thirty-five thousand, that is 10%. As the data from the Funds and the Insurance Debt Centre show, these are large-scale debtors, who have a total debt of almost EUR 1.5 billion, which accounts for 25% of total regulated debt. In combination with the increase from November 1st of the interest rate in the settlement of outstanding debts for those who had been subject to the favourable provision of the hundred instalments at 5.05%, the risk of further withdrawals has increased. As a result, the fears of cracks in the Funds and the explosion of deficits have been intensified. Data from the IKA alone and from the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debt indicate that out of thirty-five thousand applications under the arrangement made in September the twenty-eight thousand four hundred forty-two came out of proceedings, because they did not pay or the monthly instalment or the current insurance contributions, with a total debt of more than EUR 1 billion. In Article 5 of this article you refer to the amendment of provisions of the Treaty. 4321/2015, regarding the settlement of debts, which you had so much formulated in the election, which you say you recall, by setting terms and conditions, which you had been completely unaware of from the outset. I do not understand whose intelligence you deprive, when you yourself have instituted a law and immediately after the elections you amend it, in order to limit as many taxpayers as possible to join it, by calling on taxpayers to give an increased dose. The association of the General Secretariat of Incomes with taxpayers' bank accounts has a unique objective: Monitoring the tax behaviour of citizens in order to exert psychological pressure. You are not concerned with the decent living of the citizens of this country. All you care about is income collection under any circumstances, but unfortunately without planning and care. I will give you an example to understand the size of the inflexible behaviour of the system. If bank accounts of debtors are frozen to the public, there is no question of who can be traders of these accounts, and we have phenomena where pensioners who happen to have on the account and a second person - usually their children - can no longer use the pension money. And especially after the implementation of the capital controls, things are more complicated with the irresponsible amount. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] At this point I have a thought. Since you can do this and bind the accounts of ordinary citizens, why do you not do the same with the accounts of the parties? So there's civilians on the first and second counts here? Why are you recapitalising the banks, giving the banks the money and not putting it on the market for our fellow citizen to be able to have entrepreneurship and give it to the banks? The parties have denounced the banks. I don't understand that. There are currently no favourable provisions in force in your own country. 4231/2015 and adversely affects thousands of uninsured over-ages, as well as thousands of CSMEDA engineers and free professionals, as well as delimiting changes in the public sector from September 1st. The provisions for re-pension for uninsured overtime are repealed. These are about ten thousand applications, which had been submitted to come into force since the current month, which are considered to be inappropriate. In other provisions, the right of EAFRD members to choose up to three lower classes of insurance is also abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, please. In Article 14(2) of this Regulation, the account of the CAA, a Generation Solidarity Capital, established to cover any deficits that may be presented in ancillary insurance, shall be eliminated. In other words, the feeling of your Government is an uncertainty about the future and a clear mockery towards the citizen. We inform the citizens that what is now happening is only the beginning. Unfortunately, hope for better days is evaporated daily and is nothing but fruitfruits hope. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, stable on its memorial line, has no margin but to vote against another memorial plan that you, the euphemist left-wing ones, have brought to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u682	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor for eight minutes. Here, you have the floor for eight minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u683	The first time I've been talking here in the House and you're behind me, because it was mentioned that it would be fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u684	You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u685	Okay, something called eight and two minutes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, thank you for your kindness to listen to me. I followed the speech of the Prime Minister - from my house, unfortunately, because I was resting for a while, but also at home, I cannot deal with politics - and I saw that he was saying something right, that the PASOK, the Potami and the New Democracy voted for these measures and the Memorandums. Well, measures specialize in memos. They therefore considered the memorandum necessary before the elections. And now they're refusing. This is a great disadvantage in the consciousness of the world in my view, namely a lack of credibility for these parties, because they first felt the need to plead for a memorandum and now they do not feel it, and the situation has not changed at all, the situation is equally dangerous. Here is a very great point, Mr Tsipras, but also Mr Tsipras insist - and he is not here to listen to it - five years inspires to this people an inspiring against the Memorandum, that he has other solutions, that he smashes memorials, that he deletes debts and came on a night of July 2015 and signed a memorandum much heavier than before. And the pledge of 50 billion was added. Why was it added? Why were voices heard in Greece, saying "We don't recognize the debt. They're burdensome. It is awkward." On the one hand, we put our hands on loan, and on the other, we told the lenders that we would not give them back and the ones we took and the ones we took, so they also put a mortgage of 50 billion, the pledge that Mr. Tsipras could, if he wanted to do so, have avoided it. He could have removed the drachmas from his house. But he left them, because he wanted the vote of some people, who in society are circulating and have made scripts that the drachma would have been saved. This is a conscious crime. This $50 billion pledge wouldn't exist. This is the first time that foreigners imposed it, because they even heard the House hear it as committees and that debt is considered to be burdensome and shameful, and the Prime Minister said that everyone has the right to say their views. Of course, we have democracy and everyone has the right to say their views, but the Prime Minister cannot say that it is with the euro and the TV windows that others are around and that it is with the drachma. That's not a party. That's a popular market. I see a strange alliance between the river and the PASOK. I guess their precipitation makes them unite. PASOK is the ruins of the old PASOK, what remains from the time of glory, and the Potami is the party that was built very quickly. Built on Monday, Tuesday had 8.5% in polls and on the other day continuous attendance at all the panels. This party, while saying it would get 10%, barely took 4% and abducts the caterpillar that leads firmly outside the House. Now they're trying to unite, if they're gonna be saved. But I insist that parties that lack ideology or have betrayed their ideology have no future. That's my opinion. I would like to say a few words about the speech of the Prime Minister, who said he went and spoke with Merkel and Holland about refugees. He said at a moment here in Parliament that Greece insists, in order to bring Turkey closer to Europe, that it should withdraw from the northern part of Cyprus. Did he get that assurance, or is it Mr. Tsipras's opinion? Obviously, it's Mr. Tsipras's opinion. Did Merkel say that "I will put Turkey on, but will I only put it if she leaves the northern part of Cyprus that illegally owns it"? Did Merkel say that? Is that what Mr. Tsipras understood? I knew Turkey would get money. Because the thing will get worse, it will be involved, and Greece will step by step. I understand that and I am just warning, because in this country we are living. On the issue of Skopje, Mr Kotzias sent a letter to me - so I saw - to which he tells me to give my opinion on the name of Skopje. What did he want that for now? Negotiations are supposed to take place. So if I tell him to give the name, he'll give it? Or is the government looking for acquaintances in a specified retreat? I didn't understand the spirit. So, what am I supposed to say to him? I'll tell him, as Chief of the Central Association, that the Skopje change their name. The question is how they will be persuaded and how we, the powerful of the earth, should convince the Skopje. In other words, Mr Kotzias spoke as if he were dependent on the parliament whether to change the status of Skopje. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the President of the Union of Centres hits a warning bell.]] In any case, these measures are too heavy. The Centro Association cannot vote for them. It's heavy. Why? Because they're taking out over-age benefits. They're abducting! They don't give a solution to the pension issue. There are still three-tier pensioners, three hundred and thirty thousand, with three main pensions. There's still a penthouse. Intruding and intact penthouses! And there's still a pasale. Actually, there's a lack of will. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is ringing.]] I therefore believe that what Mr Tsipras is doing is for his Members to vote for serious measures, not so good. For before, when his opponents asked for this, he indicated that such measures should not be voted on. I mean, Mr. Tsipras' nest. He has shown anti-European conduct in the past to his MPs and is now accusing his opponents of not being properly Europeans. The last five years have many contradictions and the greatest contradiction that exists is called a political system, the same political system that led to bankruptcy, the same to save the economy. In other countries that would not have been done, it would not have been allowed. But this is where everything is allowed. Mr. Tsipras said he'd bring a bill on the channels. However, from what I have heard, this bill will give the channel permits to anyone who gives the most. I have not seen what is happening in other countries, where the church, the municipality and the local communities enter the channels. I have not seen the channel's Stock Exchange increasing so that the pimps can stop - so to speak. Whoever gives most, and Turk to be, probably get channel. And it presents this as a blow to the complexion. Where the blow is, I can't understand. Because the croissants will pay most of the money. So they'll get the channels. I repeat: To all the world, when you're in the canals, what kind of way is it? They go into the channel's blog, so that they don't like it to be few and usually unblemished croissants, with a percentage of the municipality, the church, the operators, so that the blog can spread and have pluralism as a result. Some people here will file the application and take the channel whoever pays. I mean, not to say what we're doing. I would ask the government to understand that, despite the ambitious efforts it is making to convince us that it is doing the right thing, it is actually continuing the New Democracy policy, which the people have condemned. Because the New Democracy, which says it wouldn't vote for any more taxes, would put taxes while it was ruling. Over the last five years, what else is in addition to taxes? He says Mr. Maymarakis doesn't vote for any more taxes. Why would he put other taxes and invite the House to vote on them? Are there any good taxes and bad taxes, Mr. Meimarakis? Oh, no. Every tax is a burden. Every tax is a burden. I raised a matter for the Members' advisers, and I have not received an answer. I have not received any answer from the government. I saw today that Mr Theodorakis copied it. Mr Theodorakis is following what I say and following me for a few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u686	He's been talking about it for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u687	Yeah, yeah, they've been saying it for a while. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not only come here to report or to say that everything is wrong. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] He wrote a newspaper that I'm going up to the Step and I don't have - he says - notes, I improvise, and I say what I want at that time. I think, Mr President, Mr Baron, there is a provision... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Oh, are you downstairs? Changes are taking place. I think there is a provision that forbids reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u688	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u689	And I was accused, because I don't read. Do you know that, honourable Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u690	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u691	From those who go up on the Step, I haven't seen any of me not reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u692	Uh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u693	Are there? So no one goes up without...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u694	Notes must be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u695	With notes, which he doesn't read?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u696	He consults them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u697	I wish. I'll watch. Maybe I'm wrong. Besides, that's a talent that the other one may not have. It doesn't matter. But I can't blame myself because I don't read. That's why I've come to blame. I also see no self-criticism from the parties here. I said it yesterday, a PASOK Androylakis presented himself on a television and said: "We did not invent it. We've received it from the previous ones. We just didn't stop it." That's a good apology. No self-criticism in PASOK. No self-criticism. Of course, the people have honored it. But how he punished it. The world went to another party, which believes this in the state. And someone told me that Mr. Tsipras - I do not know if I have told the House - when he was the first to privatise Piraeus for the Port, when he had taken over the President of SYRIZA, was protesting outside the court against privatisation. And he also made a statement in front of the journalists - the statement is being saved - that as long as there is SYRIZA and that as long as he is Chief there will not be any privatisation. You ask why they don't trust us. Because as long as I've known SYRIZA, there are pro-Europeans who bathed and didn't talk, and most of them were drachmas who were in the channels. That was SYRIZA's picture five years. The New Democracy had a Samara memorial two years after becoming a memorial and erased Bakoyannis. Do you remember that? Mr. Samaras deleted Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u698	We solved it by the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u699	Here's to laugh. River, PASOK and New Democracy voted SYRIZA's laws, not to leave the euro. Now, they're denouncing SYRIZA that he's a memorial, like they became an antimony. Ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that with these behaviors the world is taking the House into consideration, you are deceiving. I expect far more serious than 10% of wage increases - both for the President of the Republic and for the Prime Minister and for the Metropolitans and for all and for the mayors. I expect a 50% reduction when the place fills hungry. That's what I'm waiting for. I expect an answer to the advisors. That's what I'm waiting for. And I expect to see: Are the triple pensioners going to continue to exist? That's what I'm waiting for. Are pensioners taking over EUR 1,000 will continue to work? Because they're four hundred thousand, so the unemployed will never work. I expect to see still in the House building: Are there slow-wages? Has there been any investigation in the municipalities, in the ECJ, about the slow-wages? Has the House started any investigation into this matter? Because like the thief who can steal taxes, and the slow payroll, if it's a big percentage in public services, it's also the stealing of money. Same thing is for the economy. Has there been any search for the slow-wages? Does the government intend to do it or are our "ours" and "your children" and netting them? I really wanted to vote for what the government does. I can't. I can't, because it doesn't lead anywhere. As Mr. Tsipras said, Samaras was not driving anywhere, I have an obligation to tell him that he too is not driving anywhere. Does it have development, does it contain a trace of this bill? Does it contain anything to enable the Centroon Union to vote? One thing, a little positive, and 1% to find, I'm in the mood to vote. I am being taken by journalists and I am being told: "Can you and SYRIZA find them?" I say that I have sent nine points to Mr Tsipras and I have not received an answer. And I say in this Chamber: do not expect the Centro Association to vote if the nine points are not accepted, because some journalists are stupid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u700	If you're kind enough, Mr. President, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u701	I'm saying this to solve any misunderstandings. I have come in the mood to vote, but also the poor people a little while to be relieved. To vote and be a Kublis or a Karatzaferis, or I know, I don't intend to. I want to say this again - from 3.5% to 13.5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u702	Thank you to the President of the Centroon Association, Mr. Vasilis Leventis. Mr. Meimarakis, would you like to precede or talk to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u703	The Minister must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u704	Let Mr. Meimarakis speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u705	No one speaks of the abnormalities. Minister, you will speak. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u706	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after four days of proceedings and discussions, I, first of all, have become wiser to Parliament's procedures, which I have been following from another institutional position, and I think it has been possible to explain too many things and to understand all of them what this bill is. This bill is not the government's overall tax proposal, it is not our programme. This bill is one of the many steps we have to take on the difficult path to achieving an agreement. In this sense, this bill has the prerequisites, it has these specific regulations. In many respects, there is no legislative improvements in terms of what has been adopted the previous period in the agreement. On the side of the Treasury we tried to explain all issues. We gave answers to all the issues that went in. We did too many interventions. We shared information material. We also shared information material today. We have responded to one on all sides, even though we have heard the same arguments over and over again from the same political areas. I understand that it is of the greatest importance that a proposal should finally be made here, even though this proposal has been answered or not. For many times what the speaker is seeking is impressiveness and not the essence. I understand that as a political game too. We're just all learning. As far as the Treasury is concerned, therefore, the Ministry of Finance tried to substantiate and to raise as much as it could, especially in the areas of misinformation, for all this on the tax storms, for those who are kept, for which nothing changes, for the lockers, for which nothing changes, for the VAT on hotel businesses, where we have explained 50 times that what was in force in 2014 also applies in 2015, and for a number of other elements. In order to avoid giving an alibi to anyone and not to allow any grey zone to exist in the categories that have been attributed to us for tax evasion, cover-up, etc., we have withdrawn the provision for the possibility of companies and citizens to make late declarations or initial statements when a check order for these operations has been issued. I have already received on my cell phone protests from accountants and businessmen, who are caught in this process. In other words, a control order has been issued, they want to make statements for a number of reasons and they cannot do so. Because you need to know that every auditor in a large audit centre or in a large tax office in Greece has a hundred and a hundred and twenty cases in charge. We therefore have too many cases where cases are delaying and businesses are locked up. I responded with a identical message to everyone: 'Those who have responsibility for this development are the ones, these are the ones, these are the ones.' I'll send them your phone numbers. With regard to the political issues of the bill in general and to the issues that have been raised here, another conclusion is that the draft law did not raise the issues of either taxation or the issues of the bill, the general political issues were raised. And the opposition, with a great surprise, saw that she didn't understand why she lost the election. The problem was the wrong strategy and four days now I have seen a repetition of this wrong strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u707	You're a communist, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u708	The battle was given, the field was selected where the game was from the start lost. In terms of taxation, in matters of smuggling, it is not possible to oppose the government and to formulate the different, because the worst...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u709	You win the lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u710	I understand the disagreements and the anguish, but I would like you to express your views here in Stepma. I think this interruption method offends you, not me. I'll keep going. I don't have a problem with that. So you have chosen the wrong field, because what the world has understood very well is that the New Democracy, PASOK and Potamiou policy - because its officials supported its governments and his policy is a policy that is the same as yours - led the country to this situation at a general level and led the tax issues where we are. And you are now coming to criticise the government on the subject of HISPIA, on the subject of VAT, on what you have done a postgraduate and you are trying to criticise us, who are going to implement the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u711	Now you're getting a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u712	Mrs. Vulture, I understand your anxiety. I expect you to substantiate what you have said on the channel for me, and I have said that it is the way to get New Democracy rid of me. I'll quit the next day. I don't expect you to do the same. So please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u713	He's presiding already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u714	As far as policy and strategy are concerned, then, people know tax policy issues. He knows how we got here and it's wrong the field chosen by the New Democracy and the PASOK, in particular, to give the battle. To remind you, therefore, on the more general policy issues: there is a complaint on the part of SYRIZA that we are not doing things right and, indeed, as has been criticised, you will bring in and bring in measures because you do not have management capacity. I would like to say that I am troubled, and he is right. We do not have the management capacity that they have shown in New Democracy - PASOK all these years, particularly in certain charismatic photography amendments, which gave hundreds of millions of millions of support to the conflict.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u715	Remove them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u716	Don't worry, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u717	Remove them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u718	Mr. Voridis, the other party is over. The party now starts, though, to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u719	We're living it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u720	That's what you know. This will come. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u721	Your party, unionist!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u722	Don't worry. It's all going to happen right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u723	They grow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u724	As far as the criticism we are hearing is concerned, then, I would remind you of Amendment No 1251/7-2014, which was tabled to Parliament and voted on. For the third time he was filed with the House. They tried in two previous bills to testify it, they didn't. They tried at n. 4211/2013, tried to n. 4225/2014, they did not. They did it to n. 1251.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u725	And what's changing to it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u726	Do you know what happened? Not equivalent to VAT in education, we'd find something else. And because you may not believe either the "LEFT" or the "AUGY" or other newspapers, I will give for the Practicals the 23-3-2014 newspaper, which explains exactly how the game took place and what exactly happened, to stop some people saying and blame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u727	You have now become the head of the LEFT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u728	It clearly explains how this story started and involved all three parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u729	From over a million who benefited? Give us names!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u730	I'll tell you, Mrs. Vulture, don't worry. It is the amendment to triangular transactions, with which you have given quite a lot of VAT equivalent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u731	Leave the triangles and the blocks. Names we want!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u732	If the New Democracy has a provision to abolish tax confidentiality, it will be very interesting. I expect you to ask the Treasury and ask the Treasury how many such cases have been put into this amendment and how many taxes have been lost by the Greek State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u733	Names we want! Bring them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u734	I'm hanging up with one last. I think that the subject of the Lagard list has been heard a great deal and a great deal has been said. I shall therefore say that I have heard many positions. And while I challenged speakers from both parties to place themselves on what happened in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, when Lagard List was officially in Greece, but had not been to the ILO.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u735	How many checks did you do this year? How many checks on the Lagard list did you do this year?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u736	I understand, Mrs Vulture, your effort, but I will be heard and said. As far as your responsibilities for 2013 and 2014 are concerned, I expect they will speak your executives, say what happened in this period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u737	You had them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u738	How did two thousand sixty-two names charge this case for all these years to three hundred auditors?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u739	This year, how much did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u740	And don't move my hand and tell me about this year. I put it in the House. You did not ask a question about this. I put it in the House in the programming statements, because we have nothing to hide. Our responsibilities will be taken over and we will take it where the thing needs to be done. And with the amendment that came today, we have proved that we are not forgetting. We don't forget and we're starting a big business plan and we're going to reach these cases by the end. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u741	Thank you, Deputy Minister Alexiadis. The President of the New Democracy, Mr Vangelis Meimarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u742	How much time do you want, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u743	Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u744	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u745	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the Prime Minister, and I believe it is my duty to respond, because he wants you to address such expressions and instead of speaking on the bill, to give up on us - the opposition as a whole, I would say - on different issues. First of all, let me tell you that he was wandered by the briefing he wanted to give us about what happened at the summit. It is not all that has happened, we have heard that more has been done at the summit. For example, we have seen that he has also asked for the help of Commissioners and heads, so that the opposition can vote on the measures. Does anyone forget that Mr Moscovici yesterday made an intervention and recommendation to the opposition to vote on the bill? This has not bothered you, ladies and gentlemen, that you are very sensitive when such interventions are made?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u746	They don't learn French... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u747	But I hear that yesterday in the debate with Mrs Merkel, she said that opposition will not vote for it, the brother party will not vote for it. Truly, does he wonder whether the brother party in the other parliaments voted for the agreement that we voted here in the Greek Parliament, which he introduced? At the same time, I would say that you finally got to the point of yelling, like the kid who yells at his mom, to make us a da! Can Mrs. Merkel tell us to vote for it? You're the anti-merkelist! You, the one who was abusing all of Europe, all of the strangers, now have them fight us? Well, it's too much! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't get tired! Don't get tired! We're not SYRIZA. We support what is for the benefit of the country. But whatever is tax, cuts, materialistic, you will find us across the street. There is no way we can give you an authorisation in white-collar! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have heard you, Mr President, say that opposition must be voted on at the moment, because the people approved the agreement by their vote. But that's what we were telling you in the election. Firstly, we told you why you had the elections and indeed so quickly that the people did not understand what you had voted on. You replied that in twenty days the 2012 elections were also held and in twenty days they were also held in January 2015. So in order to respond to this, and to end the tale: in the 2012 elections, which took place in twenty days, we had already voted for a memorandum, a year and the people were aware of the policy that we were going to follow, and I would say that we then got the majority to implement that policy. The January 2015 elections were held in twenty days, because the parliament did not make a president. Still, the parties knew where we were going. In the elections that took place now and which were held in twenty days' time, no one knew where we were going. Why? Because on 10 August you told us that we could leave, that the House could close down. The President then closed the House. Do you forget that you asked her to open up the House? And you told us the deal would come after the 20th of August. We also asked you in the House: 'When do you intend to bring the agreement and what do you intend to do?' The answer was that the agreement will come at the end of August. Extraordinarily, on 13 August you opened the House and on 14 August you called for the agreement to be voted on and you immediately declared the elections so that the Greek people could not be informed of exactly what you had agreed and what you had voted on. And if you dare, don't make the election then. Let's not have you postponed the tax payments for October, November, December and done them in October or November, as you calculated, to see how the Greek people would vote. Because now you have reached the people's vote and we will never forgive you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We will keep saying it so that they know it and know exactly what you voted on it. And because I have heard you now, Minister, tell us about taxes and all the relevant taxes and, first of all, let me tell you that the taxes we collected in 2014 have been returned to the market, because we have paid the public debts to private individuals, while you will take them and leave the market. That is why you are causing more recession. Secondly, in 2014 we had started to develop, unemployment was beginning to decline. You now have deficits. How can you compare these two periods and abandon us for any taxation, when we tried to return these taxes due to the debts created by the Greek State? At the same time, I must remind you that, when you asked us for a vote in August 2015, you told us that we would vote for the memorandum and that the measures you would bring with a sign of social and a signatory positive and a signatory development. Do you recognize any of these three of them you brought? Nothing. And I see, I'm sorry, you and the Prime Minister, precisely because you don't want to talk about them, tell us about other things. You can tell us about the "subjects" and the answers. Tell us about the Lagard list. Tell us about everything else, except what you brought today to legislate. We, despite the fact that we believe that we need to talk about the measures today and only about the measures, for the Greek people to understand them, will not leave what you have said unanswered. Because I realized that Mr. Tsipras became a judge! It's made a decision. Not too much, he told us that everyone is innocent! Where and where? How does he know? Where'd he figure it out? How did no one let us know? Did he see the missing ones from the "subjects"? And if he saw them, how did he make a decision? Should these institutions not move? Did he have seen what had happened on the Lagard list and sent three prosecutors over the last week and went out to tell us "Don't you dare stop the investigation"? Why? Why was that the D.A., that was the president, that was justice? We believe in an independent justice, with honest judges. These honest judges will make the decisions. Not the government, not the executive. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, what you know, let go of them. You're not going to terrorize us or you're going to put it all in a bag and go balance and clear it up. Clearances from us do not exist. Anyone who has done the damage, anyone who has put the finger on honey, put it all out to light and got punished, no matter what side it may belong to. The New Democracy has a clear face and is not at all afraid of any research at any time! So don't try to scare us and play with them. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, I would like to tell you that in the multi-project, which you have not answered at all, you are confronted with the first government. The second SYRIZA government after the elections conflicts with the first government. Where? In your provisions for the 100 doses. But you had voted back then and celebrated, and you have other things now. So is pension for older uninsured people. But you have voted, and you are voting now. And I ask: How will you vote, gentlemen of the government, contrary to what you voted on a few months ago? Let me get a jackass of mine when Mr. Tsipras said - or didn't understand - "We're going to rule now. Because before we didn't rule." You didn't rule before? What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u748	We were negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u749	Just negotiation? That's why the place goes, go... The deal was made with hours, not months. The rule was months, it wasn't hours! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I really believe that the government should explain its change of attitude, not the Opposition of its own. The opposition was, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, The government has to tell the Greek people why he was lying in the pre-elections. You need to remember what dilemmas you put in the election. The Greek people did not know the deal. Finally, I would like to tell you that pension cuts and taxes are not solved by talking to us here about the seafront of Keratsini. What does one have to do with the other? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Come on, let's bring it up, let's talk about it differently. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Also, you know, it has nothing to do with the media law, which every day you're licking it. You've been saying that for seven months. We told you, bring it. After all, what were you afraid of bringing it down? Because I have heard the Prime Minister say 'I have not spoken to anyone, I have not taken anyone'. Does he know who his ministers are getting? Does he know who his consultants are talking to? [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Because I haven't taken anyone! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is that how we're going now? Will that be the dialogue you want in Parliament? If that's the dialogue you want, I'm here and we can do it. Let's talk about it. Finally, Mr President, I should like to close with a very serious issue with which the New Democracy has not dealt with this incredible, naive and dangerous letter for Skopje. There is no letter for us. So what did the Foreign Minister send us now? Should we negotiate between the parties? Is that what you did in the negotiation you had? You were negotiating with ANELs and with the Ministerial Council what you are going to go through and we finally came up with a very difficult and painful agreement after months. To clarify the matter, the unanimous decision of the House with which we were presented in Bucharest applies to us. You're not taking a step out of there! Don't you dare think about it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] These are dangerous toys, such as the guarding of the sea borders with Turkey is dangerous. That's not going through anything! Macedonia is Greek! These issues have been resolved, we have discussed them. Get them out of the polygraph dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u750	Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u751	Thank you to the President of the New Democracy, Mr. Meimarakis. The floor has been requested for five minutes by the Minister Panos Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u752	Ladies and gentlemen, many of these days have been heard in this House, but very little has been said about the contents of the bill. And I think that's no accident at all. We have never seen a similar picture like the one we saw a moment ago: a Critical Opposition that has a crisis of direction. Honestly, you need to decide what is your message, first of all to your own people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u753	Is opposition the problem? Bring a bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u754	Please, will you leave me? That's not what you're honored for. It is a question of wondering how two big parties, which after the Migration, supplemented the other one - PASOK and the New Democracy - were so badly damaged and there is no self-criticism word. Well, don't you wonder how, after all these years, with such forces that backed you up, you're now in the Opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u755	We have a democracy. Elections took place. They're changing the roles. Leave the arrogance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u756	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u757	Allow me. Me, Mrs. Vulge, do you know what you remind me of? The one or the one who's been in love. You told us before the elections: "Declar something to save the country" and now you come and change what you supported before the elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u758	We never said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u759	Anyway, if that's not really a crisis of identity, then what is it? But above all, what I would like to say is this: I heard the former Minister for Labour yesterday actually shedding crocodile tears. Who's talking? The ones who violently downloaded 751 to 586? Those who raised the issue of team redundancies? The ones who smashed the insurance funds? The ones who dismantled the industrial relations? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] One more thing, Mr. Maymarakis. I fully understand why you cannot understand the Prime Minister when he talks about Drapetson and Keratsini. It's perfectly understandable. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Your antennas don't make it that far. I understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u760	Are yours there yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u761	I understand that. In any case, it was sincere on your part and quite revealing about the social character of your place. Because you know that in this world there are no one-ways, there are interests expressing them in specific policies. And we're all upset about the world of work. You are known which ones you serve and where you come from.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u762	Pick up the payroll!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u763	Cut the pension! There goes the poem. It's old! Last year!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u764	I would prefer all these smiles and interferences to see them in an effort - even - to table your own proposals. You haven't done it by now. We know under what conditions we have led to this agreement and told the Greek people. And that is our big difference: that before we signed this agreement, we presented it to the world and had the democratic courage to invite him to judge us. You're the ones who hid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u765	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u766	You suffered!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u767	You're always interrupting and ruining my siren. I'll finish, so you'll get rid of listening to me. Let me have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u768	If people agree, what do you want our vote? Vote on your own!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u769	We know that this path we have chosen is difficult. It's not the way out. It's the way to fight, and this struggle will work as much as the world will trust us. We know this is a course of contradictions, but we will never cease to be inspired by the great values of the Left,... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...from the ideals of equality, social justice and the protection of the interests of the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u770	Thank you, Mr. Pano Skourlet. Dialogue is, of course, a little vivid, but that is not necessarily bad. I would like to inform you how the situation is from now on. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is about 22.30 ́. We have registered to speak twenty-six speakers and two parliamentary representatives, and we also have the roll-call vote. I call on the House to conclude the debate at 12 noon, regardless of where the list has arrived, and then to start the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u771	Right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u772	Right! It's approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u773	It's approved. Thank you. Mr. Gregos has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Mr. Grego, wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u774	In fact, to complete the departure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u775	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! Those who want to leave the Chamber can do so as quickly as possible so as not to delay the process. It's at the expense of the number of speakers. Mr. Grego, don't start yet. There must be an appropriate atmosphere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u776	I'm waiting, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u777	There's a quiet place in the Chamber. I think you can start now, Mr Grego. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u778	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, firstly, because I was given the floor for the first time in this parliamentary term, to thank the Greek patriots once again, despite the merciless war, again, and again, with the authority given by the Golden Dawn voters, I should like to return with every notion of a step the insults and insults of us to those who have described us as 'criminal organisation', 'fascists', 'formation' and other phenomena. After all, the slap they accepted once again all of them were even stronger and we've got it all the time. The government also continues with this bill the tactics of falsehood, political fraud and economic extermination of the middle social order. The Prime Minister and optimist of the minority and chosen by Merkel and Siomple had announced and signed with New Democracy and PASOK the measures that will be adopted today. He cheated and betrayed first of all his constituents. But let us remember some of the government's lies: Lie first. The government will last four years. The government will keep as long as the loan sharks, the head of the Task Force, the known circles, certainly not four years. That's a second lie. You are talking about development - as long as Mr Samaras had brought it - without a programme, without a plan, vaguely and blurredly. I also write to the Secretariat two letters. It's from the Pontian Youth Association of Attica and from the Panhellenic Federation of Port Authority Associations. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're on. That's a third lie. You are talking about the fight against corruption and interlocutory. As you know, the deep PASOK lies within SYRIZA, but many SYRIZA officials are involved in scandals, as you know. And SYRIZA is divulged in corruption and struggling and also charged with the scandals of PASOK and New Democracy, since none of the known cases were brought to justice. Would you really dare to lead to justice some big-time, big-time, big-time slaves, like Bobola, for example? Mr. Bobolas or any of the Bobolas the Minister responsible would call and he would say "get where you are, because tomorrow you won't be Minister". We know these things, they're familiar. That's a fourth lie. The deletion of the debt and the slitting of the memorials have, as it were, become - allegedly - alleviations and products of suspicious agreements with lenders. That's a fifth lie. He said the Prime Minister has a strong people's mandate. Lie again. It has the majority of the Greek people to him. In fact, he was ironed out by those who voted 'no' speaking of referendums. That's a sixth lie. You are telling us that there is no risk of Grexit anymore. But Europeans say. That's a 7th lie and a very serious one. You're talking about social cohesion. With so many millions of illegal immigrants, many of whom are reportedly jihadists and even many massacres in their assets, not social cohesion, but the risk of uncontrollable situations is at stake. Recently, a Muslim leader posted the following feature on Twitter, notice: “Brothers it is time! Allah promised us this earth and will keep his word. The day of vengeance is coming. Let us finally shed blood on European pigs! We are becoming more and more powerful. We'll start soon. The prophet and God’s blessing to cover you. He will be proud of us." As a consequence of all this, the insurance system, and in particular the health of the citizens, is directly at risk. Greece needs fences and army at the border and law enforcement. Let us note here that the crimes committed by foreigners in our country are mainly racist. Besides, their religion says so. For that very reason, the anti-racist law should apply to foreign crimes. In other words, the predatory provision of anti-racist law. You can open up a humanitarian corridor to spend five, six people a day, after such health tests are made, set the place of residence, check the criminal record, legality of their documents, determine where they will work, check whether they are refugees, when they will return home, the full details and much more. At the moment, neither the number of immigrants is known either. But we know their intentions. We don't know if you'll be doing some reception centres in Mykonos, Kifisia or Katalis, but the Greek people say 'no' and if you dare do a referendum even for that. National issues were placed the Chief of Golden Dawn in his speech. We shall once again state from a point of view that no tolerance should be shown in the state of Skopje. Macedonia's name is unnegotiable. Neither the name nor the derivative do we accept. Anything else is national treason. Turkey and Albania are hostile states. It was, it is, and it will be. No tolerance for the jihadists who threaten Greece and Europe. And to say here that if you try to co-administer in any way in the Aegean Sea with Turkey, this is tantamount to the ultimate treason. Of course, you will not dare exercise our legitimate right to establish the EEZ. Let me remind the Prime Minister that Greece's territorial waters are at 12 nautical miles. Instead, it cuts military expenditure by EUR 400 million and reduces the wages of the military. You're not telling us what you're going to do with demographics. Hellenism dies biologically and all scientific studies confirm this. You are talking about unemployment and about 100 000 jobs when the unemployed exceed two million euros. And the percentage is not 25.8%, but it will reach 31.5% in 2016. As far as the public sector is concerned, corrupt and prosperous civil servants are not the servants of cleanliness and airline employees. Corruption - as you know - is at the highest levels of public administration, and that is where party employees usually outweigh. And since I said that, I saw at the ERT this morning a lady who exalted the Golden Dawn, a lady who was paid by the Greek taxpayer - and we and the voters of the Golden Dawn - and cursed the Golden Dawn. To tell this lady - I do not remember her name, but I will find it - that this is also a criminal offence and a disciplinary offence. And a strict warning to address the journalists: they should not so easily catch us in their mouths, because we know and know what their dirty role is. We talked about 'outside you'. I was also in the Commission 'from now on'. In this committee since 2012 and so far there are no cameras, practically there are no records. What is going on in this committee is left in there, nothing goes wrong, so when the first and second parties are involved in this committee, they can well cover up. Let the Greek people not expect anything from the relevant Commission. Lately, I'm going to talk to the seamen, because I've really experienced it myself. You know, to these people, you can't even retire and cut off the years of service. When these people are away from home for eight and ten months and when they are not close to their family, when their child is born, or when their parents die, tell Mr. Shoeble and Mrs. Merkel that we cannot cut pensions here and increase age limits. Golden Dawn has the popular support. It has been rooted in the heart of the Greeks and will be next to the tested Greek people whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u779	Thank you, Mr. Grego from Golden Dawn. Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ferropoulou from New Democracy for six minutes. I would ask that we respect the time to speak as many speakers as possible by 12 o'clock, as we have agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u780	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this evening's conclusion is very interesting, with a view to the vote on the Multifibre Arrangement, to a debate in the plenary session of our National Representation. In particular, I would like to say that the presence of the Prime Minister and his position on all the issues he negotiated was very important when it came to understanding that SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks now understand that they are actually ruling. Governance has also begun this first multi-project is really first and hard to test for Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos. In making an account of this week, where, through committees and now in plenary, this multi-brand plan is being discussed, I would say that the Prime Minister has consciously chosen to refer to it very little. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, it's accidental? Do you think the Prime Minister chose almost not to talk at all about the multi-project and disorientate, to make a communication political diversion by referring to his political recommendation to the National Representation on other important issues, but nothing to do with this multi-project? Why did the Prime Minister choose this? I believe that, because he too realises, that he is now starting to rule, he understands that he is against his own so-called and understands that his word is against his own speech, of the previous period of governance. No matter how much one wants to banish the country's real need with a vehicle, no matter how much one wants to sanctified by a vehicle or by an alibi with the current financial crisis, and no matter how much the Prime Minister wants to say that this agreement was necessary - if he does not want to call it a memorandum, it is certainly a memorandum - that is an agreement which, in our view, was not necessary, it did not need, if the Prime Minister had acted immediately in the previous government of seven and a half months. I would like to say, for example, that Mr Tsipras chose not to deal with, for example, the fact that, while his previous government, the co-government, voted for provisions that were passed by the Greek people - for example, he was voted by the ultra-aged uninsured, by the relatives, by the lawyers, by the seafarers, by the engineers, because he had brought provisions, which were supposed to favour the status of these social groups - immediately after the elections he felt it was good to vote for what his own government, the same Prime Minister with the same co-government partner had voted. If that is called political honesty, if that is what it is called 'I remain firm in my view', please tell me, ladies and gentlemen of all the wings, if that is a sign of political morality. Obviously not. That is why the Prime Minister has not mentioned. Then the Prime Minister, on the occasion of the multi-project that he did not actually get into on corruption, spoke about the fight against corruption and on the moral advantage of the Left once again. I have a question to ask the government and to take it to the Prime Minister, who, in my opinion - although I understand that he had his journey, and I understand the tiredness of the government's work that has now begun for the first time - had to stay to the end of the House. And here, Mr President, it is the House that the MPs and the ministers speak mainly to the Members rather than to the backwards. So I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Kammenos, who is his government partner: Mr. Nicholoudi, why do we not have him in current governance? Mr. Nikoloudis, according to common confession, was considered to have done work, stereo work, serious work, methodic work. And the question is: why is Mr Nikoloudis not in the government? We're waiting for an answer. The second question is: Faithful or not is the Prime Minister in his word? He said that by the end of this meeting he would have told us what would happen to 23% in education. He didn't answer us. He told us more. In other words, the Prime Minister spoke. His right is to talk about others, but about the crucial issue that since this morning concerns the entire Greek society, about how they will pay their VAT, about what business will do, about what parents will do, about how these social groups will be troubled, the fish silence has chosen the Prime Minister to observe. The question put to the relevant finance ministers, who are also praiseworthy, is: 'Where will the equivalent measures which will be required to cover the hole from the 23% freeze, be covered by which we have no response to the current deadline, have they not told us? Will they be covered again by the usual suspects, i.e. the employees and the pensioners? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that it is unfair to attack, invoking the economic crisis and the need to implement an agreement in over-aged age. It is unfair to attack citizens who believed you and made their programming and paid their contributions - I am referring to the previous social groups. I would also like to say that it is unfair when I hear the Prime Minister say 'we will press what is bad in this place for the benefit of the socially weak and weaker' and not do a seven and a half months ago, that is, eight and a half months, for the smuggling of fuels. I shall close with that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I read the day before yesterday in a very good newspaper, in "NATIONS", in fact, that since non-blocking - and there has been a law since 2012, no. The country loses revenues annually of ECU 1 billion in fuel smuggling. Does the Prime Minister not want this revenue? Does the Minister in fact not want to enter the state funds and heal the economy? Only communal vertebrae are we going to launch in the Greek Parliament? Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the morality of politics proves to be the case. I must tell you that if we were in these seats as a previous government - imagine a little bit of the picture - and we brought this bill and if some of our own ministers were to say that they had poorly filled out their'substantially', tell me how to deal with your own plan and see how to deal with ours. I mean, that is another quality of our party towards the country, against parliamentaryism and yours. Invoking moral advantage without proof is an empty shirt. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u781	Thank you Mrs Catherine Papacosta - Ironopoulou. The Minister for Justice, Mr Paradise, has asked for the floor for very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u782	Thank you very much. For a little while, I want to talk for two minutes. I was lucky to support an article in fact, which concerns tax evasion, and which I understand was welcomed by the Members. The remarks made were constructive, some were accepted. I would not have been given the floor if there was no time for it to be heard here, in this area, by the argument: 'You have voted and now you are voting'. You are inconsistent.’ I can't understand it. This government has voted for a memorandum of understanding, an agreement, and now it is voting on it. Where's inconsistency? It's the definition of consistency. Some others voted for the memorandum, and now they are not voting on it, which is precisely the rendering of the articles of the agreement that they have voted on. Who is consistent and who is inconsistent? Because I have also listened very often to something about the moral monopoly on the left, I have to say that I have heard this in this area alone as ironic, I have not heard it as a placement, I have not heard it as a support for the moral monopoly. In democracy, in the rule of law, on the left no one claims moral monopolies, moral monopolies or legal monopolies. Everyone is judged on the basis of his actions. That is the rule of democracy and that is the rule of the Left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u783	Thank you, Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradise. Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u784	Thank you, Mr President. What courage! Disgusted! You guys look in our ward and give us up for inconsistency. How much time does your memory have? Fourteen days, month? You know what you promised and told the Greek people: the memorials you would rip, the one article, the one law, the rupture. Do you know what everything we've heard in the last five years? And you come - with what courage - and you look at this party, which you have seen for five years and forsaken us for inconsistency. If that's possible! If that's possible! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, has come here, and you applauded him. What were you applauding exactly? Are you happy to cut 10% on low pensions? Are you excited about this? Are you very happy that you are now imposing taxes on unreserved rents, on nonexistent incomes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u785	It's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u786	It didn't change. You have simply abolished the tax scale, which will come back. The abolition of the concession is, however, maintained. So the basic torso is maintained. What exactly? You're happy for what? For abolishing the Court of Auditors' prudential control. So you're actually strengthening corruption? Are you happy about what exactly? Why do you abolish the possibility for local government agencies and universities to manage the way they think their resources are available? You who've defended them, what's changed? Does the addition made, that make a sufficient change, ensure any of that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u787	Exclusion...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u788	Is there an explicit exception? Why don't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u789	She's in custody.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u790	No, she's in custody. Exclusion...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u791	What exactly are you celebrating for? What about the fact that you have effectively abolished - and abolished - the minimum level of reduction and reduction in prices in medicines, possibly leading thousands of families to unemployment from those working in the Greek pharmaceutical industry? You are proud of this and you applaud enthusiastically for Keratsini. The man came and told us about Keratsini while all this is happening, why does he not want to face the consequences of this policy? And you're telling us about us? Why did we have these? When we were negotiating, did we have a 10% reduction in pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u792	You cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u793	When we negotiated, did we abolish the thresholds for drug prices? When we negotiated, did we make provisions that actually strengthen corruption? Our negotiation, for which we were paedophiles, we were german germans, we were incompetent, we were on the four, did he have these things in it? Excuse me, I think SYRIZA has really lost contact with reality. And be careful, you don't even have this talk. Come here to defend your provisions - in fact, not tears and outrages and we can't and there are contradictions and we're on the path - come say why it's good that you're reducing 10% of low pensions. Come and tell us an economic argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u794	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u795	In the first Chapter, paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u796	There's no such thing. You're decreasing in early hours. Yeah, what's early? High pensions or low pensions? Now we've come to an understanding that we're saying the same thing? That's it! So now you'll come and explain his financial function. Come and defend the abolition of preventive control. Come and defend the provisions in their contents. Four days we've been talking and you haven't brought an argument. All you say is: “What do we do? We shall implement the Agreement.’ Do you believe this deal? Do you believe her? What do you think you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u798	Well, then why are you bringing them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u799	We believe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u800	We don't believe that at all. So take care of your argument, because you don't understand where you are driving. When you don't defend a policy, then you produce political denomination to yourself. So the fact is, you're coming today and you're actually voting out arrangements that have clearly worked, arrangements for lawyers, engineers, for doctors. The fact is that you have come to legislate in Article 13 looking at certain companies, even they lose their rewards and take the rewards to the municipalities. And you are intervening - now listen - in pending trials, because these municipalities are in the courts with these companies, intervening once and for all a judicial effect in favour of the municipalities, to pre-empt it and to have it solved. And the competent Minister, Mr. Kourublis, comes here and lies and lies that he has allegedly found them with the CEDEFOP and agreed with the CEDEFOP. I don't care if CED or not. I know if it's right and it's wrong. But he's coming and lying. How long are you going to go with the lies?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u801	Patolis is here, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u802	Here's something to finish. I didn't understand your argument about corruption. I did not understand the argument of the Prime Minister. What exactly does he say? Because Tsukatos has done something, so what? What about the Flemish and Stastakis in this regard? Good-looking? Is that what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u803	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u804	Don't have a dialogue, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u805	What do you mean? Is there a breach of control because you're asking me, and even a felony? If it is or is not the same, and you are saying that for the sake of transparency, let the ministers agree to lift the protection they have from the law on the responsibility of Ministers, go to their natural judge, to see what their natural judge will say, whether they are or not they are the same. So don't score them. Illegal acts are illegal acts and they are control. That's what I understand. Will the transparent and morally inconceivable left Prime Minister agree to controlling these actions? Will you, gentlemen? No words. That means I resign from the immunity of the Law on the liability of Ministers and I enter the control procedure. Preliminary and special court. That's the process. No words. A specific procedure. Do you agree? Will you vote on this proposal to control your colleagues? To be rendered clean? Yes or no? For if it is no, as I speculate, leave it on the moral advantage of the Left. You've never had one, and obviously if you ever had one, you lost the advantage as a Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u806	Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has been asked to speak. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u807	You really said one truth, and she's the only one who said you didn't cut pensions by 10%. You reduced them 44% of IKA's, 48% in public. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And despite these dramatic cuts we have, 23% of retired people living at risk of surviving - do not be disturbed, Mrs. Vulture constantly with everything, I said what is happening - even though we had such cuts, 1 billion in IKA, more than half a billion in the OAU, this explosive situation is a creation of these policies that preceded it. So 10% is not a reduction in pensions. It is a reduction in the remnant of the minimum pensions, which I would remind you is not in the minimum pension, but in the minimum early pensions. It's about early retirement. The social security system always provided for a reduction in pensions when you were receiving it early - 6% for each year and 3% for five years. That's not it now. It's always been. And we really put this reduction rate into the needs created by your own policy. Only for early pensions. Of course, the policy that we are going to do for the development of the social security system will bring new data so that we can cope with the disaster arising from your own policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u808	Thank you Mr Petropoulos, State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity. The Minister of State, Alekos Flabouraris, has asked for the floor. Mr. Flambury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u809	I am really surprised by the second time on the side of the representative of the New Democracy, reference to my face. In fact, with arguments and information, which have been checked, once the House's Commission on the ground has not even met, it has not even invited me, it has not even come to a conclusion. Really, if we want the House... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please don't interrupt me. If we want this House to stand up to the needs that our country has now, if we really want the truth to shine, we must leave the committees which we, as a Parliament, have designated to take the necessary steps and then come to discuss it. Please stop the debate here. It makes no sense to make a controversy, which can lead to extremities that do not need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u810	Thank you, Minister of State, Mr. Flabourari. The floor has been requested for very little, too, by the Minister for Justice, Mr Paradiseopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u811	I'll just say one word. I have nothing personal against Mr Voridis, despite this spectacular 'what courage'! After what I said, because I'm used to making arguments to hearing insults and I don't think they're touching me anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u812	We shall now proceed to the list of speakers. Mr. Christos Beyalas has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u813	Ladies and gentlemen, after two days of meeting in committees and another two days in plenary, we reach the end of this process of voting on the bill. As we have said against Coron, this is a multi-brand plan that corrects things, is in the prerequisites and is the prerequisite for going to the next step - the Prime Minister stressed it, but also the ministers and many speakers of the SYRIZA - which is the recapitalisation of the banks, to go to the next step, which will be the debt debate. However, we can see that the Vice-Presidents and, above all, the Officers of the Vice-Presidents speak with a strong look, hard characterisations, things that have nothing to do with the reality of the bill. They're talking about real measures that don't exist in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have indeed a very great advantage and have acquired this through your long-term relationship with the authority and governance of the country, to manage to falsify the truth. You falsify her and drive her where you want her. We have heard Mr Vorides say with a strong look 'you are reducing the 10% minimum pensions'. If that's in the bill, obviously my Greeks have nothing to do with what's written in the bill or my mind is too low of intellectual value to be able to understand. Why have you not told us all about what we are talking about, gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you in favour of early retirement? Are you in favour of even today and beyond forty, forty-five and forty-eight and fifty years in retirement? If 'yes', say 'we all Greek citizens want to go out in the forty-five years of retirement', we should go out and have a good time. But we do not know what we will get or what future generations will get as a pension. We have not even heard a proposal on all matters. Are you in favour of the exterior fines that existed in the law 2013? Apparently you're in favor, because it's your own law. Now that they're coming and rationalized, you don't vote for it. Why? Because analgesia is within your own philosophy, so that you can talk punishingly to those who, whether they may have made a mistake or may not be able to meet their tax obligations. We have heard in this Chamber even about HISPHA and blame the SYRIZA government for not changing - it says - the objective values. But, from 2004, from 2008, which was the last time objective values were formulated, did you change them by the end of 2014? Oh, no. Why didn't you change them? Did SYRIZA then rule and leave you? Obviously. Gentlemen, you have a hypocritical and chameleontic attitude. You really manage and shape your political speech completely as it suits you, as it comes to you. You wanted to say 'yes, we vote in August on the agreement', you voted on it. Today's not good for you. And of course it does not suit you for this simple reason: you do not care about the plan. What is of interest to your officials and your leaders is the future of the New Democracy and the elections you have. So here we are seeing a performance of all the executives who have to do with an election climate of August and not a post-election climate of October, which Greece has to decide to vote to be able to go further, because you are judging the odds yourself in many cases. It has been reported that you do not trust us. But, gentlemen, it is clear that it is the only government that has received comments for four days - and it is making changes, because it is a government which has shown that it is involved, listens to it, is not consolidated, because it wants to serve some interests, but because it wants to do its best for this country to move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a lot lately with Mr Vorides' intense style that we are cutting the pensions of 10%. If I remember correctly, in the OGA, but also in all pensions, gifts for Christmas, Easter and leave allowance - two whole pensions, namely - were the New Democracy that cut them off. Of course, we've got moral morals orchestras. Obviously, with some things that we all remember, some 'SIEMENS', some structured, some Bavaria, certainly have nothing to do with you. You're a parade of virgin babies and you do have a moral advantage. In conclusion, I would like to say that this multi-project tonight will be voted on and we will also give the message to Europe and to our lenders' representatives that Greece has decided to move forward and make all the necessary reforms. And these reforms will take place, whether you like it or not. These reforms will be carried out, because our Prime Minister, his Government and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the Independent Greeks will support with all their powers this great effort to reform, so that the country will move away from the size of the memorandums. Gentlemen, 'government' is a sickness. It doesn't go easy on you. He didn't take you with four election defeats. But it'll pass you over time. It will pass you by the end of the four-year period from SYRIZA. It'll pass you along with SYRIZA's next winning course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u814	Thank you, Mr. Christos Beyala from SYRIZA. Mr George Stylos has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u815	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is the question to our fellow citizens: what happened in the past nine months, ten months? Why were the elections in January provoked? Why did we then have all this inconvenience to the Greek economy? Why did you call and provoke a referendum? Why were the elections held twenty days ago? Do they improve the lives of Greek citizens? Do they answer their problems? I think not, and then I'll prove why. Ladies and gentlemen, a glimpse of the basic economic sizes of the Greek economy leaves little room for optimism. The seven months or the seventeen-hour negotiation of SYRIZA - ANEL illustrates its signs in the Greek economy. According to the government figures recently submitted in the preliminary draft budget, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government received a country in recovery with +0.8 to plunge it into recession over the next two years and to reduce employment, i.e. to increase unemployment. In September, last month, thirteen thousand jobs were lost. At the same time, the forecasts for the euro area refer to GDP growth in the next two years. The Antimonetary Governance of SYRIZA - ANEL is now being called upon to implement the third Memorandum which it negotiated, which was recommended to the Greek Parliament. The Memorandum is to be applied to get out of the Memorandum. The myths collapsed at a huge cost for the Greek economy and the citizens of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Annual Report of the International Monetary Fund - announced in October 2015 - has some characteristic points in relation to Greece's economy, and I want to mention them. Greece's economy, says the report, will return to a positive growth rate in 2020. The risk of exiting the euro has been significantly reduced, but it has not been eliminated, since the government will implement its agreed European partners - creditors. The fourth quarter of 2015 will be extremely difficult for economic activity with the recession to be placed in 5.4, while in the respective period of 2014 the Greek economy had achieved growth rate of +1.4%. Dramatic is the fall in per capita income. In 2014 from the $21,000 in 2015 to $15,000 per capita GDP, nominal GDP per capita in Greece, which is one of the most important indicators for measuring economic prosperity. I present in the Minutes the relevant graphs from the report proving the truth of the previous ones. [[At this point, the Member, George Stylos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graphs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The conclusions are as follows: It is obvious that we have the opening for the GDP per capita index, i.e. the income of a person on average in the economy between Greece and the developed economies. In practical terms this means that our people are becoming poorer and living standards lower. It is therefore clear that SYRIZA, having promised everything to everyone, has defied the Greeks' vote, and in practice it cannot produce any results. Amateurism, the lack of a comprehensive plan and the deadlocking of the SYRIZA - ANEL government tends us to live lower and poorer. I have heard in the debate of this multi-project the bodies who have all made proposals to the Greek Government. As far as I can see, none of these proposals were adopted, but as a opposition you had discussed and given to you, you did not adopt them. The proposals from the Association of Greek Industrialists in the pharmaceutical industry, by the TEI, by the low-pensionists, are characteristic. Ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate on two points in terms of the multiannual plan. Article 39 of the EC Treaty is repealed. 4331, which means that it increases contributions to engineers, lawyers, doctors and other freelance professionals. This is a law that was recently passed in July 2015. I want to give you a briefing. Recently, the European research institutes with the best performance have been announced. In fifty-five institutions four are Greek. There these institutions employ engineers, young scientists and have brought these institutions 2.7 billion income in the country from competitive programmes from the European Union. Instead, we heard from the government that you would come to abolish the law that liberated the forces of Greek scientists. Arrears due, such as VAT, are reduced in the time of repayment from the three months to one. The regime of a hundred instalments is being reversed when there has been a repeated emphasis on the need not to have a transaction between the citizen and no communication with the Agency. Instead, you have the administration to determine whether the number of doses should be reduced to a debtor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second concerns pensions. Recently the Sages' finding in relation to the insurance, a finding ordered by the government, Mr. Katrugalos, the Minister of Labour, was announced. Just give me a minute, Mr President, please. So in its conclusions, he proposes that professional funds be set up. The law you are voting on today abolishes the possibility for some professional funds to be able to be created by 31-12-2015 and I refer to n. 4281/2014 and the ability of the EEPASA, the police insurance fund, the fire-fighting fund, the port insurance fund. You remove them from the opportunity to manage their own deficits, because they are in deficit for these funds, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, you want to take what's there to give them who knows where.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u816	Finish it, please. I gave you the minute you asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u817	Yes, Mr. President. Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against this plan, because it increases retroactively their taxes on immovable property, abolishes discounts, exemptions from HNPH, eliminates small tourist units.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u818	Mr. Style, please. Mr Kegeroglu is right to protest. Mr. Kegeroglu won't speak at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u819	We are voting against it because it abolishes pensions for older people. We are voting against it because it abolishes preventive control by the Court of Auditors. We say no to cuts, not to tax increases. Be well, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u820	Thank you, Mr. Style. Mr. George Ursouzidis from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes. Please respect time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u821	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today are the free houses of the city of Veroia. A hundred and three years ago, our city was released from the Ottoman yoke. Mayor of Khalil Vegi called on the Ottoman and Christian population to co-decide how the city will be delivered in such a way that no more blood is spilled. Turks and Romans agreed and surrendered the city without any problem at all. I am following the procedure today, and I see that we cannot even agree on things that we have adopted together, and today we are implementing the prerequisites of that agreement. Today I will be as honest as possible in the memory of the people who spilled their blood by liberating our country and specifically my city from the Ottoman yoke. Today is the beginning of a very difficult effort and at the same time the end of innocence. Every electoral process gives rise to hope, to expectation, to those who participate and to those who are absent, disgusted by the old and completely intertwined economic political system, which has troubled the country for forty years, which some want to erase from their memory, but it seems that the Greek people have another opinion. The tragic state of the economy was not suddenly born in May 2010, but matured for decades from those who controlled the political system of the country and these are not only the well-known local economic actors, but also the foreign economic colossians who supervise the wealth of the people. They knew very well where things were driving, fueling the superconsumption monster through the banking system. Some would ensure time of power, and the markets would. The hole that jointly created it was charged to the Greek people. The unscrupulous "we've eaten together" fell like a lightning on the head of the people of the toil and the backbone, because clearly the "we're gonna pay together" was implied by the "we're going to pay them" and those with the misappropriated, and those with their own lives. The citizens of this country have been discredited to such an extent that they spontaneously created a movement of solidarity throughout the world, which felt their own lives matched to the Greek people. He felt that tomorrow his turn came to apologize for actions and omissions of others, to pay a price he cannot respond to, which he does not pay. The policies implemented over the past five years have led to a decline in the economy to a degree of suffocation, free professionals in despair, as well as low-wage and low-wage pensioners, with citizens' suicides, who have not endured humiliation, and this is almost daily phenomenon. The intertwined and silverless media system, projecting another reality than that experienced by the Greek people, increased civil indignation and intolerance with geometric progress. Despite the bloody sacrifices, the country's debt has increased several billion euros instead of falling, as predicted by the system's 'falcons' politicians. One wonders where there might be hope in this. The Greek people, in rejecting the country's old and failed system of governance, trusted SYRIZA in order to get rid of the authorities that brought the country into despair and its citizens. In the negotiations that followed, through a difficult effort to challenge and the 'internal troika' to ask for any agreement, the result was expected. It is objectively difficult to try. It starts with the aim of ensuring the sustainability of the country's debt, which is the uterus of the country's problem, while at the same time being the starting point for exiting the crisis and giving an optimistic perspective to the country's economy. On 20 September the Greek people trusted us again, preventing the plan to overthrow the government and a new and incorrupt Prime Minister, whose destiny was to launch a titanic attempt to challenge the debt and reorganise the country's dead economy. It has thrown out the trash of the blackmailed dilemma put by the representatives of the institutions and their local partners, 'yes - inside', 'not outside' by the European Union. There has been no greater lie, at least during the years when I remember the country's political process. If they were to win, they asked for Tsipra’s head on a board and the prestige of power with the people humiliated. Where can there be hope in this? The Greek people stood up, approving a series of options - with any mistakes - in our short-term government service, a mandate that was completed without odor, without suspicion of scandal for the first time in the country's modern history. First time left, first time clear! The first evaluation is ahead of us. In order to be successful, however, the prerequisites of the agreement must be passed by the Greek Parliament, measures that are hard, ineffective and lasting for at least the next three years. But I have to be fair. It's not all inadmissible. You asked me before if I believed in the measures. Obviously, I don't believe in measures. I'm a professional. I saw a wall rise in front of me, as with all my fellow engineers. I've seen the deadlocks, inability to pay the loan you've taken to build, inability to pay your insurance contributions, inability to pay the unfavourable taxes you've imposed. How can I believe in these measures, which we are actually taking in a much more difficult economic situation than the one that existed five years ago? That's the reality. In conclusion, I would just like to mention - and here I am on this subject too, because they were generally - Article 18(4). There it says that, unless the amount due is paid, people with disabilities and vulnerable groups will not be entitled to it and will have 1-1-2016. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, the Greek people know very well who we fought to support the rights of ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u822	Thank you, Mr Ursuzides, and the consistency in time. Mr Constantine Barriotas has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u823	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute at most?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u824	Just a minute, please, very much, because we're getting away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u825	Mr President, I have just seen a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the President of PASOK, Mrs Générale, calling for it - and I am glad that Mr Kotzias will nominate members of the National Foreign Policy Council. This letter is accompanied by a second letter from the Minister invoked by the last National Foreign Policy Council, where we have in fact discussed issues of the Balkans, and in the last paragraph of this letter calls on the President of the PASOK to inform him of the views of our party on specific names which could be considered acceptable to FYROM, namely - and on other issues that are considered important on our part. I'm leaving the last one. Minister, since you're here, what's this? Not even a first-year student of the Department of International Relations TEI would say that. What's that? It's - I don't know how to say it, because I want to keep my own serious - paradox, it's dangerous too. Can you imagine a naive responding to you? I would ask you very much to take, as you are here, a position on this issue and to be worthy of your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u826	The Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u827	Mr President, the National Foreign Policy Council was created by a special law of 2005. All its correspondence and letters are confidential national texts. Unfortunately, people who know from legal and different parties have denounced the law on their small-party propaganda positions. And I ask: Since when do representatives of parties present classified documents in the House under the law made in the governments of New Democracy and PASOK? One question is that. Second question: National...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u828	Is that the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u829	Please don't interrupt, Mr. Bourra, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u830	If you think it is right to get the classified documents of the Greek foreign policy institutions, say it. Secondly, at the National Foreign Policy Council, which took place in the summer, all parties here and Mr Loverd - have been asked to agree to this, because he left earlier, but now the PASOK party representative - that the parties' proposals for the debate on how to deal with the FYROM issue will be written. What I did was with a classified document, based on the law, to remind us of their commitment to tell us their views on a matter that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not want to solve on its own, without hearing and consulting the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u831	...and you expected they wouldn't take it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u832	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u833	But you accepted the argument and stood up and spoke. They opened the matter and you go on with it. Think about what you have to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u834	What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u835	The third and most important of all, I have heard the President of the Civilian Operations invoked the 1992 decision. It's his right. I remind him that the New Democracy over Costa Karamanlis changed track in 2006 and 2007. The fact of changing this policy shows that it is right to ask what you think, what you think. Today I learned that others have an opinion from that of Kostas Karamanlis in 2006 and 2007. Thanks for the public placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u836	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u837	Mr. Loverdo, please. I'll give you the floor on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u838	Kostas Karamanlis, along with George Papandreou, changed policy in 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u839	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u840	Please, Mr. Loverdo. I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u841	I understand that there are internal problems in certain parties, internal party competitions. Please do not play with foreign policy because of internal competition. I would also ask you to stop handing out the Greek state's confidential documents. This is not a patriotic policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u842	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u843	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u844	Please. The President of the New Republic, Mr Meimarakis, has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u845	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to the Minister that the decision was changed by a unanimous decision of Parliament at the time and we used it in Bucharest, where we had the victory. Let me remind you that I was Minister of Defense and I've lived it close. And when I said about the Summit of Heads, I mean exactly that, if you want to change the decision, you can invite us under the President of the Republic to discuss it and not by letters. Secondly, since you give me the opportunity to clarify this letter, ladies and gentlemen, it has come out of the Golden Dawn. If you have confidence in discussing these matters in the way you are discussing them by letter, it is yours. I therefore ask you because - precisely because it is a serious matter - it has to be put to the parties without a letter, to discuss it with you, with the Foreign Policy Council or under the President of the Republic and - be careful! - Just so there are no leaks and they know Skopje the Greek positions of the parties. What are you calling us for? Should we negotiate between us? Shall we say a name? Say another SYRIZA, another KKE, the Potami, and he goes by saying? This is not the case, Minister. Now I understand why you brought us this memorandum too. Is that how you were negotiating? That way, between you two? And then you went and talked about it? A little seriousness from the State Department doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u846	Thank you very much. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Loverdos. I'll give you the floor right away. I just want to say that because this is an extremely sensitive and important issue, we understand its importance. Mr Loverdou, perhaps Mr Kotzias will answer and close this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u847	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u848	And you, Mr. Paphie, will take the floor, of course. From the Parliamentary Representatives they will speak to anyone they want. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u849	I, Mr President, will make another reference and I will stop. You realize how serious this is, unfortunately the Foreign Minister is not aware of it. I have to tell him two things. The first is that on a gave, on a predatory move, it is not right to export the responsibility of the problem to another party. Rethink it, that's not right what he's doing. The most serious thing, however, is that a Minister for Foreign Affairs before the National Representation cannot lie. And Mr. Kotzias is lying. I have the document here. I have been a State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and have handled classified documents too many times. The classification of the document, any classification, from confidentiality to top secret or confidentiality, i.e. the most relaxed upgrade, shall be indicated on the document. Mr President, I address Mr Kotzia's letter to see if there is a classification. Please be very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u850	It's a fully indegradable document! Keep an eye on what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u851	Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u852	I would like to remind the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzia, that not all parties participate in the Foreign Policy Council. Mr. Kotzia, do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u853	Mr. Kotzias won't answer the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u854	We won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u855	He doesn't hear about that. He doesn't listen, because he's writing. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u856	I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u857	Mr. Palphie, complete your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u858	I'm telling you that not all parties participate. The Communist Party of Greece does not participate. The second thing we want to note is that we also received this document. It was sent to the Secretary General of our Party. We have not said a word, whether it was sent or not, even though the positions of the Communist Party of Greece are well known, not now, but since you have all made those infamous rallys together, and then you started changing positions after each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u859	Are you protesting? Everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u860	Not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u861	Everybody, everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u862	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u863	So since you're causing me, I'm going to continue, because then there was a coalition of the Left and Progress. We were gone and Mr said... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u864	Please, please, let us listen to Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u865	Yes or no, Mrs. Bakoyannis? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u866	Yes, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u867	Thirdly, however, we believe that we also need more seriousness from the Ministry in dealing with these issues. We have nothing to hide. We have been publicly placed in this area for too many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u868	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u869	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out that this is a sufficiently serious and sensitive issue for us to deal with it in a similar way. On this occasion, I would like to say that our reservations and objections, which we had put to the Minister, very quickly in relation to our view that the participation of the Golden Dawn at the National Foreign Policy Council alone raised a very serious issue. Perhaps it is time to rethink a few things, since I imagine that today's Bureau has a different view and view of these issues from the previous Bureau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u870	I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u871	What issue, Mr. Venizelo? Tell me first what it is and then I will give you the floor, because nothing special has arisen so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u872	I'll tell you. It is being conducted, in the context of a legislative debate on a specific bill, by way of an intervening debate on a very serious foreign policy issue, an issue of particular historical and national sensitivity. I therefore believe that, in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the House and of the Constitution, it would be appropriate, in order to protect foreign policy and national interest, for the debate to be interrupted here. A document was wrongly sent without graduation to the parties and not to all parties. Because if I understand it correctly, it was sent to the Golden Dawn rather than to the JRC, for example.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u873	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u874	In any case, what needs to be done now is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to commit that a serious debate will take place as soon as possible, behind closed doors, in the relevant Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u875	Mr Venizelos, I said earlier that the parliamentary representatives are speaking and closing the matter. If the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to answer, well, otherwise the debate will stop because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u876	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that we received the document in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u877	All right, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u878	We got it, we just didn't make it public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u879	If the Minister for Foreign Affairs wants to reply, well, otherwise the debate will be stopped right here and we will continue on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u880	The Minister wants to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u881	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u882	Vangelis Venizelo, let me answer. Your man opened it, Andreas. Here, when I came in, I decided not to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u883	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u884	Are we going to talk to our colleagues in this school? Mr. Kotzia, get serious! You became Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u885	Mrs. Bakoyannis, don't take away your problems with me. Please let me talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u886	Mr. Kotzia, get serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u887	Let me talk. I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u888	Come on, get serious! You became Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u889	It doesn't correspond to your story the way you interrupt me. I respect your story, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u890	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Tell me about my story.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u891	I respect her. Firstly, I was called a liar and indeed by a professor of Constitutional Law, Mr. Loverdos. He says he knows all the documents have a rating on them. Right, except for the documents of the National Foreign Policy Council, because the law provides that everything is by definition highly confidential. It's the law. Please read it. You're legal. Secondly, I think what the representative of the JRC, as well as Mr Venizelos, has said, is a sensible voice. I know that the JRC does not come to the ETUC for a thousand reasons - one or two main reasons - but I must as Foreign Minister, since we have a new parliament, repeat the invitation together with the letter to you. I imagine you're going to answer me, just like last time, that you're not coming. It's respected. Thirdly, the change made in 2006 and 2007 to the position of 1992 was not made by the Council of Heads. I don't know if the honourable President, Chief of Antipopulation, doesn't remember. There was. Fourthly, I did not say any followers of any solution, neither of '92 nor of '06' nor of any of them. What I have said is that I democratically want to hear the voice of the parties. At the National Foreign Policy Council I begged all those present - and they were all parties present, with two representatives - to give us their views in writing. They accepted it. You accepted it. There are minutes. And I reminded the parties of their commitment. I never imagined that the parties of the democratic arch would adopt an attack launched by the Golden Dawn. As far as the Golden Dawn is concerned, precisely because it violated - because these documents are top secret - the procedures of the National Foreign Policy Council, I am sorry, but I am not in a position to call them back. They issued publicity documents, which will be used by third parties. Poor thing. It's not a patriotic position at all, as they claim they do. I will defend the institutions at the National Foreign Policy Council. I will defend the democratic dialogue on foreign policy and I agree with Mr Venizelos's proposal. I will defend a patriotic foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u892	I think the voice of reason is bewildering. I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Panayotopoulos, who has asked to speak in a few minutes to put himself in an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u893	Very briefly, Mr President, and thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u894	Very good. We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u895	I owe you an answer, as rapporteur on behalf of the Vice-President, on the amendment announced by the Prime Minister just now and tabled by the Deputy Minister of Finance. We're accepting it. It is the amendment to extend the limitation period for tax control cases for which orders, orders, etc. have been issued or will be issued until 31-12-2015. Of course we will accept it and vote for it, but we would like to extend the cases on which this extension of limitation period is given to all cases on the list in question, so that there are no further doubts. And because this is a timely process, as stated in the explanatory statement, which will involve authorities and bodies within and outside Greece, not one year, but two years of extension to carry out the project. That is what we would like to propose, of course, that we accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u896	Thank you very much, Mr Panayotopoulos, and for the short time. We move on to the list of speakers, with great respect for time now, to speak as much as possible, because we only have twenty-five minutes to get to 12 o'clock, when roll-call votes will take place. Mr. Barriottas from the river has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u897	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the JRC, which hosted me, as long as the national debate was taking place, which I must also say that I think was totally unfortunate in the way it was done. For the record, I would like to remind you of most missing people in the Chamber that Mr Michaliokos opened it, whatever that means. He was the first to raise the issue in Parliament, no matter what that means to move the letter. I am afraid that I now need to bring the climate back to the Chamber in the bill and the previous debate, which I have to admit has been productive in the past few days. We have heard a lot from many aspects. We heard the Prime Minister a little while ago, the Chief of Officerial Response, we heard a lot from the Congress. I'd like to admit that all these days I have a story in mind, the well-known story about the prince who's transformed from the witch into a frog and woke up a nice morning in the swamp. I am reminded of this transformation by many of my fellow Members, who have expressed a feeling of embarrassment, which reminds me of the awkwardness that must have been felt by the prince who woke up in the swamp. This rhetoric in general'something strange has happened, and we are not the ones, we have a conscious problem with government policy' and so on, is, in my opinion, counterproductive, which does not help anything. Don't believe the New Democracy colleagues. You are not a parentheses, it is not that policy that you exercise parentheses. You're right to say you're not parentheses. It's a policy that's going to go long. The government with the Prime Minister has made a great turn during the summer and we have heard the Prime Minister proudly support it and target it, set the targets for next time. Well, it doesn't make any sense. In fact, we heard him, not without a surprise, resigning the New Democracy for anti-immemorandum tendencies. He asked them if they'd be Zappy again. He used a proverb somewhere else for hanged and rope, but he didn't connect it to the question. You therefore support a new policy, different from the previous one, for reasons that you might be able to interpret them. In no case, however, has happened by accident or happened abroad and is neither a parenthesis. I do not think that there is a left in set-aside, nor does that "for some time it has fallen back to glory again". We've been in a new period. I don't know what you think, but I think I should remind you that review is not a sin, it's not a bad thing to find us. It is essential and it is very useful, provided it is done with cooling, honesty and after analysis. And mistakes often teach and we have to look at them. There's no return to the previous period. We will not return either to March or January or 2013. None of us will come back. We've been on a particular route. The scene has changed for everyone. So very schematically - and I may be unfair to some - we are now all memorials. We're on the side here that Mr. Voutsis was talking about at some point that we're on the lenders side and the others on the other side. We are all in favour of the country's European path. This puts problems here, puts problems on you, puts problems on us. But that's the new reality. We're in a new political scene. You've been an antimony, and now you're resuscitating antimony. And to remember the Prime Minister, you share this with the New Democracy. It's a common feature with the New Democracy. You've been antimony and now you're memorial, no matter how schematic that is, that's reality. And you don't only look like that, I'm afraid. This should, above all, concern you, because the first bill in the third memorandum comes and strongly reminds them of their previous and practical practices. It is written on the knee, it is full of errors, as has been pointed out in many respects, it is written in the well-known corpses - as I said in the committee, quoted paragraphs, adding a word, it is inconsistent - and it promotes the memorial choices and commitments of the agreement, but it also puts on the window some customer regulations, such as Article 13, for example, which changed the course as we have seen, and many others. Does that remind you of anything? Does that remind you of an old-fashioned game? But it reminds me of me. Only one word about the good legalization that I mentioned earlier is necessary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. Reading the laws and being understood is not a luxury, ladies and gentlemen. Very quickly in the pension, I would remind you that you have all - in the same way, with the great three 'no': pensions will not be reduced, no limits will be increased, no contributions will be increased. Everyone's policy was an election campaign. Everyone's politics! Suddenly we've all discovered now - because some people have been saying it - that insurance, it says, it's not sustainable and that, if it doesn't make a big change, it won't survive. Known for years. Some people have found out now. We will therefore be waiting for the proposal and will be constructively placed for the long restructuring of the insurance sector. However, in the abolition of what we voted in May, we will not consent. In abolishing the provisions of Law No.4331 we will not consent either to changing the relationships of the EBRD or to abolishing the pension of uninsured overtime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will not vote for the simple reason that we voted for them in May. We won't change our position. We will remain in favour of them. It would be a good thing if the wicked arrangements were withdrawn or in any case stopped. Gathering, spreading, gathering. We rounded up the right to make a statement, while the investigation is taking place, we put salmonic in half and cut Article 13 in half. We did not do all the grace, we did half, we put the word 'cleanness'. I don't think we can, with this tactic, get out of the way. His tactics "shoot me, and if I cry", his tactics "to sin for my child, I didn't want anyone else pushed me" has no benefit. He's not going to do anything for anyone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What it takes is a five-year plan. You go, you go back to Lenin, you forget the five-year-olds. So what we need is a five-year plan for the country. Yours five years. Let's talk about it. I do not think we can go out with the aim of the next fortnight or the national objective being to recapitalise the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u898	Please complete, Mr. Barriotta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u899	So I think - and I shall end, Mr President - that the important thing from now on is national planning and planning in the long term. We won't be able to do anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u900	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Ilias Cassidyris, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has been asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u901	Wait a minute. First of all, as far as the amendment announced by the Minister for Justice is concerned, we will abusively say 'yes'. And I say abusively, because, although the offences of certain tax-payers should not be recorded, twenty, thirty, forty, but our position is that no offence should be recorded. This investigation must put the knife to the bone. Those who have escaped tax and those who have stolen the public must go to jail. With regard to the advance announcement of the blockade of the Golden Dawn by the Council for Foreign Policy, no one has the right to exclude us from nowhere, since the sovereign Greek people have put us in Parliament. In the interests of the Greek people, the Golden Dawn and the disclosure of this document were in favour of the interest of the Greek people. Because secret diplomacy on the major issue of Macedonia does not exist. The people need to know all about it and, above all, they need to know what the parties have to propose. In particular, those parties that are ready to give the name Macedonia by or without any designation. It is a national betrayal to render Macedonia's name with or without any determination to foreign forces. This is the fixed position of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u902	Thank you. We're on the list. Mrs. Olympia Telloridou from SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u903	Mr President, how many more are the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u904	I think that two other speakers can speak. In other words, Mr Vlasis from New Democracy and Mr Tsirkas closes the list of speakers. Mrs. Antoniou, will you change with Mr. Vlassi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u906	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u907	Ladies and gentlemen, decades have been wasted here by a political and economic elite that has served the interests of only a few. A political and economic elite created by the state of the days, which contributed to opacity and anxiety. It has led to social inequality and the lack of the sense of law. That's not what we say. Today, they say this by letter to the candidate Heads of New Democracy, a hundred prominent members, former MPs and former Ministers of the current Officership, in view of the election of their president. They say attributes and I read from the text: ‘Do candidate Heads of New Democracy intend to cut off the umbilical cord between economic oligarchy and political power, which has been stirring up decades of the place? Are they willing to clash with the establishment? Do they intend not to compromise?’ Listen, because your own members say so. So do you intend to be inconsistent in order to rise to party or government power and not to be bend before the interests to keep it? So your executives ask: Do you intend to put an end to the action of the ex-institutional power centres?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u908	Will you speak on the bill? If I'm going to talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u909	Do you intend to operate without guardians? They then conclude by saying that "the political system has collapsed, under the burden of corruption and interlocutory, in order to then say to the candidate political leaders that "will have to contribute to the regeneration of the political system, for which, in recent years alone, promises have been made. You will allow me the truth of the matter to be tabled in the Minutes. It is the text which your own members have sent today. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Olympia Tyigoridou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So these dead promises were the famous success story, which we are told to experience. You told us that our place with your own policies had a high rate of growth and reduced unemployment. The county I represent, the Prefecture of Kastoria, of your own policies, has indeed gained a title: he has become the champion of youth unemployment in Europe. A place of pride, a place of the most productive places in the territory, with extrovert, with export activity arrived at the dawn. So at our place, people are being destroyed, society is being destroyed, and today you are talking to us about a success story that was only in your imagination and that never happened. Because you have actually led us to the climax of an adventure, an adventure that led to the deadlock, to a dead end that we came to negotiate. And we have, indeed, reached the point of making an agreement with the European Union that has prerequisites that are often at the forefront of the ideas of our values and our policy. We know very well that this course is difficult. We are now called upon to pass a first bill on this really difficult path. But for us, this course is a path of constant demand for greater social justice, greater social cohesion and regional convergence. Our central objective is to renegotiate the debt, which was sustainable for you, when, after our own efforts, it is now recognised in Europe and internationally, there should be a debate on the write-down and extension of the debt. The central bet, however, of our own government will be the creation of a new productive reconstruction. The government of SYRIZA and ANEL will not be judged there. That is where the future of the country will be judged. Faced with this effort we are doing, we have even now toward us forces of yesterday, which, with arrogant and ruthlessness, are determined not to change and insist on, even though they were driven to three constant defeats in 2015. We insist, however, that we too, because we are not afraid to try out our ideas in the field of real policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I had more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u910	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u911	I want to focus on a matter concerning the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u912	No, you won't focus, please. Time's up. We're totally in the end. Easy, please. Shut up, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u913	I just want to talk about the over-age insurers and about the fact that the government should help in this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u914	Thank you, Mrs. Tyloridou. The floor has been asked by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Kourublis. You have the floor for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u915	Mr President, after consulting the President of the ANLEs, I have to make an interpretative statement saying that the concessions currently in force so far are excluded from the provisions of Article 13.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u916	I'm afraid we're at the last speaker, Ms. Maria Antonio, whom we call on her to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u917	For Castoria again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u918	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, Kastoria is monopolizing! Ladies and gentlemen, because we have just heard the Prime Minister tell us that at the house of the hanged man they are not talking about rope, I want to say that we are not talking about the truth at Pinocchio's house. And if the Prime Minister knows the hangers, tell us, we can all hang them together. In any case, I thought... [[Noise in the Chamber]] And you're not listening to me, ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u919	Please, ladies and gentlemen, quiet! Mrs. Antoniou, just a second, please. Be patient. We respect the speaker. Here you go, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u920	In any case, I thought the "subjects" were controlled by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Parliament. Tonight we learned that the Maximos Mansion controls them and even makes a decision. Very democratically, all this! I would add one more thing to the famous amendment to which Mr Alexiadis referred, which has been telling us for a year that we have favoured some. They've been yelling for a year. Name them here and now! We are also waiting in this bill, Mr Alexiadis, for the amendment to be withdrawn. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! In reply to Mr Skourletis, who referred to the minimum wage, which we download at EUR 580, there, Minister, is a splendid field of glory! You promised. Now get him up to 751 euros! After all, you're not going to get any misunderstandings. But, listening to all the SYRIZA colleagues who were talking about the previous government, about our inner-party and asking for the change, did you deal with it? Tell us about the bill. You'll vote today. Tell us. But because I see that you have very short memory, to remind you of what you were doing and what you were saying a few months ago: In January 2015, Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA - myth under number one - instructed the Greek people to abolish the memoranda and restore it to the previous memoranda. He certainly won the election. And what brought us? He brought us Truth Committees for the Debt, which he now does not remember and delete from the website of the House. What else did he bring us? The punctual memory of the Minister of Finance - I do not know if you remember him - Mr Varoufakis who, for six months, negotiated blindly, irresponsiblely and disastrously and led us to capital controls. It brought us a referendum in which most people said 'no', but they heard 'yes', and at the end they signed a third memorandum on the most unfavorable terms of all of the previous ones, which they actually painted as a great national success. In August 2015, our resignation, the New Democracy, without counting any political costs, supported and voted for the government elections, but on the basis of our country's stay on the hard core of Europe and the Eurozone and the deterrence of a Grexit. But then we made it clear that from that point on, it was the government's job to go ahead with the agreement. And then what did SYRIZA do to solve the inner-party problems and get rid of the weights that ruined his window? He led us to elections. And this time the new legend, since the old myth was not - myth number two - was the opposite of the old with the new one, where, of course, he reserved for himself the role of the new one. He won the election again, and now he just came face to face with reality. The first bill, with the prerequisites of their agreement, now sends the account to the Greek people. Now there are neither equivalent nor parallel programmes. These lasted as long as it was necessary to intercept the Greek people's vote. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will leave me a minute, Mr President, since I am the last speaker. For several days now, four the number, the ministers cut off and sew a multi-brand plan that cuts insurance, pension rights and retroactively reduces pensions. Just yesterday Mr Drasakis said that the target was a pension of up to EUR 1,000. Mixed or clean, he didn't tell us. It abolishes or amends laws that SYRIZA himself voted, as for the hundred instalments, to draw up uninsured over-ages, deprives resources from local government. Of course, it follows a second bill with much tougher measures in November. I hope that the decision that the Minister has just signed yesterday on incinerators' procedures will have nothing to do with this. At the same time, the government says that these measures were the fault of the lenders, that they did not believe them, but the troika imposed them on them, that they applied the memorandum, but they were not in their intentions. But we all know that the road to hell is in good intentions. And in politics it surely counts the result. At the bottom of the line, wasn't SYRIZA talking about getting the best deal possible after seventeen whole hours of negotiation? He was, in fact, celebrating. Wasn't SYRIZA saying he achieved an honest compromise? Now that the bill comes to the people, it's the lenders' fault? I understand that, following the revelations made by your ministers, who, instead of asking for the case to be clarified, are looking to find out who gave the information, you are in a difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u921	Mrs. Antoniou, if you'd be kind, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u922	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, the implementation of the third memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, is your problem, your cause. The New Democracy will support all the reforms we have agreed with, but from there, stop hiding behind nonexistent incomes. You led the country to the elections, you took the government. Take responsibility. In any case, what else do you ask of the New Democracy? Shall we take over your own responsibilities? Put back on your own irresponsible choices? Can we get you out of this bad position again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u923	Mrs. Antonio, please! Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u924	To remind me of a friendly expression by Mr Tsipras: 'They have not slaughtered!'. [[Insert the pubs. 689a and 689b]] [[Insert the page. 690a]] [[Insert the page. 691a]] [[Insert the page. 693a]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u925	Following the position of Mrs Antonio, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: "Measures for the implementation of the Financial and Structural Reform Agreement" and their vote will be taken separately. In order to vote on the bill in principle, as well as on Articles 1, 13, 14, 17 and 21 of the draft law, nominated Members of the Communist Party of Greece have applied for a roll-call vote, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u926	I will also read out the list of signatories to the JRC's roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitris. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardalis Thanasis. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Present Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here you go. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Synchronakis Manolis. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. Furthermore, on Articles 1, 5, 13 and 21 of the draft law, a request for a roll-call vote has been submitted by Members of the New Republic, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u927	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mr. Panayotopoulos Nikos. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Congogiorgos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Abstentions. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Abstentions. Mr. Tasoulas Konstantinos. Abstentions. Mr. Giulekas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Davakis Athanasios. Here you go. Mrs. Arabazi Fotini. Here. Mr. Pschakis Anastasios. Here you go. Mr. Kedicoglou Simeon. Here you go. Mr Vagionas Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy Party. Articles 1, 2, 5, 13 and 21 of the draft law have been submitted to a joint request for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR and the River whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u928	I will also read out the list of signatories to the joint motion for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Alliance - DIMMAR and the River, in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Harula. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Abstentions. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou Friday. Here. Mr. Amyras George. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Danellis Spiridon. Here you go. Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. Here you go. Mr. Lykoudis Spiridon. Here you go. Mr. Mavrosh Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Phofilas Jasonas. Here you go. Mr. Pssarian Gregory. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure by signatories to the joint motion for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR and the River. Finally, on Articles 1, 2, 5, 10, 13, 14, 17 and 21 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u929	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for the roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. I've been away. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u930	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to add the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure to one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u931	The House has agreed. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1, 2, 5, 10, 13, 14, 17 and 21 of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Measures for the implementation of the Financial and Structural Reform Agreement". Receiving the principle and articles of the bill say ‘HA’. Not accepting the principle and articles of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. On the list, Mrs Panagiota Dritsel is called by SYRIZA and Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they state their vote on the principle and on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u932	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letter, which was sent to the Bureau by my colleague, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u933	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues from the Bureau, from Mrs Gennamata and Mr Maniotis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that, if they were present, they would vote 'no' in principle in articles 1, 2, 5, 13 and 21 of the bill. Furthermore, Mrs Catrivanou is absent and is aware of the fact that, if she were present, she would vote 'yes' in principle and in Articles 1, 2, 5, 10, 13, 14, 17 and 21 of the bill. Also, Mrs Anna Karamanlis is absent and is aware of the fact that, if she were present, she would vote 'no' at first and in Articles 1, 5, 13 and 21 of the bill. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u934	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the count is conducted, with the consent of this House, we can vote on the other articles and the amendment. The debate on the articles is adjourned and they will be voted on separately. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u935	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u936	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u937	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u939	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u940	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u941	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u942	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u943	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u944	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u945	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u947	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u948	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u949	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u950	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u951	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u952	Article 4 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u953	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u954	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u955	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u956	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u958	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u959	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u960	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u961	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u962	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u963	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u964	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u965	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u966	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u967	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u968	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u969	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u970	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u971	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u972	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u973	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u974	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u975	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u976	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u977	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u978	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u979	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u980	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u981	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u982	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u983	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u984	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u985	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u986	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u987	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u988	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u989	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u990	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u991	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u992	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u993	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u994	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u995	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u996	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u997	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u998	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u999	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1000	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1001	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1002	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1003	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1004	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1005	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1006	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1007	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1008	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1009	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1010	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1012	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1013	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1014	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1015	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1016	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1017	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1018	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1019	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1020	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1021	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1022	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1023	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1024	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1025	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1026	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1027	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1028	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1029	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1030	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1031	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1032	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1033	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1034	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1035	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1036	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1037	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1039	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1040	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1041	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1042	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1043	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1044	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1046	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1048	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1049	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1050	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1051	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 4 and a special number 4 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1052	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1053	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1054	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1055	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1056	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1057	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1058	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1060	Therefore, Amendment No 4 and number 4 were accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Congressman Ioannis Maniatis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1061	The House approved the requested permission. [[After REMUNERATION]] The President of the Association of Centres Mr Vassilis Leventis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1062	The House approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1063	The House approved the requested permission. Congressman George Katsiantonis is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1064	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1065	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[Enter the text of draft 720a]] They voted 294 MPs. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 154 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'NO', 140 MPs voted. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Measures for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’ was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. A total of 294 Members voted on Article 1. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 2 has adopted a total of 294 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 5 has adopted a total of 294 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Article 5 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 10 has adopted a total of 294 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 163 MPs. Against this article, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 131 Members. Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 13 passed a total of 294 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 14 has voted for a total of 294 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 242 Members voted. Under Rule 52 of the Rules of Procedure, 52 Members were voted against. Article 14 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 17 has voted for a total of 294 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 169 Members. Against this article, 125 Members voted against. Article 17 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 21 has adopted a total of 294 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. Article 21 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1066	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1067	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1068	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1069	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1070	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1071	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1072	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1073	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1074	By a majority. The Court of First Instance therefore accepted, as it stands, a majority of the Court of First Instance. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Measures for the implementation of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms’ was therefore accepted in principle and in the articles by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1075	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1076	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1077	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1078	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1079	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1081	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1082	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1083	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1084	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Measures implementing the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1085	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1086	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-16-S1-commons.u1087	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 1.45 hours.
