ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 9-12-2015 authorisation, the minutes of the BB's Wednesday, 9 December 2015 at its meeting on the resolution to the whole draft law: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia on the settlement of questions relating to entry visas for youth mobility (Work and Holiday Visa)’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS With the permission of this House, I would ask Mr Kammenos to take the lead in a committee. We begin with the fifth under No 252-7-12-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the delay in granting the heating allowance. Mr. Kammenos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. Good morning, Minister. With regard to the heating allowance, although we are on the month of December, which is traditionally low temperatures, fortunately, in our country at present we do not have so low temperatures. Nevertheless, the TAXISnet application procedure is not available, as they inform us, while the Ministry of Finance does not have any official notice on when to begin, but also on the criteria of beneficiaries for the heating allowance for this year. Impression also causes the fact that several weeks ago, both in the electronics and in the press, they report with details of the benefits criteria. For example, reports from the Sunday newspaper on November 4th, entitled 'Reduced and fewer beneficiaries of the heating allowance'. Among other things, it states: "According to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, there will be a change, both to the maximum income and to the square metres of the house, and to the financial amount of the subsidy on the basis of a geographical criterion". More specifically, it states for a reduction of the allowance from 35 minutes to 25 minutes per litre, that the first instalment will be January 2016 and the second one in May. It speaks of 12,000 euros income from 40,000 euros last year, which was a single property with an objective value of up to 100,000 euros, for 20,000 euros for marriages with an objective value of up to 150,000 euros, for 22,000 euros for marriages with a child and 2,000 euros for each child. This is a very serious matter, because it employs a large proportion of our citizens and their needs for heating. Here I would add that the misinformation of the media and the papers creates a chaos in society, and the reason I came here is, not so much to control what we are doing, but to clarify the situation, because the publications have created great insecurity for the citizens. We ask: Why has the announcement on the oil premium been delayed and whether it has been delayed? When is the final plan of the Ministry of Finance expected? What are the criteria for the allowance and when will the relevant applications be opened at the TAXISnet? Are the articles mentioned above valid? Given the delay, is there any provision for an advance payment to facilitate them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u4	You are absolutely right, Mr Kammene, about the delay in the heating allowance and you are absolutely right about what you said about how people are trying to misinform, but I will tell you in particular what we have done. First of all, the delay is largely due to the internal functioning of the Ministry of Finance. It is not a joke, it is a reality, that to get the heating allowance, the signatures of eleven rapporteurs, eleven of directors, nine directors, six directors, three Secretary-General, two Deputy Ministers and the Minister of Finance are needed. This whole process, as you can see, has been delayed. It is the process which, unfortunately, provides for our institutional framework, which we need to change. As far as the substance of your question is concerned, thankfully, oil prices this year are low. The decision in question has now been signed by Mr Tsakalotos and is on its way to FEC. On the basis of this decision, the amounts provided for in the budget and the agreement will be distributed to the beneficiaries. We tried and made the system as proportional as possible, within the data limits we have. I am informing you that the annual total family income, to receive the allowance, will be EUR 12 000 for single-married, EUR 20,000 for marriage and will be increased by EUR 2 000 for each child. In other words, a family with family income of up to EUR 24,000 and two children will be able to receive the allowance. In relation to real estate, it should not exceed EUR 100,000 for singles and EUR 200,000 for married women. In relation to the prefectures, we restored injustices that existed in some prefectures in last year's distribution, such as in the Magnesia Prefecture or in the Ioannina Prefecture, on the basis of the data we had. For the award procedure for purchases from 15 October to 30 April 2016 to be granted, they will be for applications to be submitted by 30 May 2016. We will allow citizens to lodge applications at two intervals for their purchases up to 31 December, to be paid up to 2 February, and for their purchases from 1 January to 30 May, to be paid up to 30 June. Nobody loses anything. They can also purchases that took place in 2015 to be compensated within 2016 with the allowance. So the procedure is progressing normally, so that we can, within the budgetary framework decided by the House with Mr von Wogau. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work is a very important one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u6	Minister, thank you very much. It is now clear that the government has a specific plan. I would like, if you have the kindness, the FEK to leave it in the Minutes, see it, communicate it and get a press release, so that we can inform the world that the process is now going well. The only question I have is - if you can answer me - about the TAXISnet which is complaining about. Is it working? Can someone come in and start the application procedure? That's all. Thank you very much, and I ask you to give the FEK to the Minutes, so that we can make it known.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u8	I do not have the FEO to submit it to the Minutes, because yesterday we slowly and with respect to Parliament, have pressed for it to be signed and signed by all the Ministers. I told you what is the odyssey of signing this decision, which we wanted to make, of course, because we did not want to be inconsistent and come today and say that we are moving forward with the process of obtaining signatures. Last night Mr. Chakalotos signed. It walks in the normal procedure of the FEK. In the next few days, TAXISnet will be opened, taxpayers will be able to enter and be fully informed. It will be a press release from the Ministry of Finance to inform you in detail, because you said before about the role of deception. We understand that the government's tax policy is at the forefront of some who are unconscious, unconscious that the pre-election period is over and they are constantly trying to find out what has been said, what is being done and what is being misinformed. They will, however, take a step forward - step by step, and next week, with the bill coming, they will also get the answer to the lies they have told these days. Start with the heating allowance and move on to the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u9	Is it the opposition that the Treasury says and is unleashing within two hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u10	I think you're not well informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u11	I'm not well informed, or are you in your world?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u12	Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u13	The first question will then be discussed under number 254/7-12-2015, the first question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the publication of a management scandal to the institution ‘ELLENIKIKI FESTIVAL S.A.’. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on Wednesday, November 25, 2015, the editors’ newspaper entitled "Scandal at the Greek Festival of Athens" states that there is a management report of the General Accounting of the State at the "Greek Festival S.A." held from 16-12-2013 to 13-6-2014. In this report, according to a report, "Greek Festival S.A." appears to have charged the Greek State with 2,700,000 euros, because the Festival's suppliers seem to have been doubled. This was made possible because certain suppliers of the Festival, in order to obtain liquidity, were borrowed by the banks and pledged to them by the Hellenic Festival, applying the provisions of Decree-Law No 17-7-1923 on special provisions on public limited companies FEC A224/13-8-1923. Although, both by the Decree-Law, as well as the individual contracts for the implementation, of the concession, it is foreseen that the sole beneficiary of these claims becomes the bank-issuer, three suppliers sold their claims, while at the same time the Greek Festival still paid them back instead of the banks. These suppliers were collected, without entitlement, the amounts due, so that banks - assigning to the Greek Festival, which was forced to make double payments. Also, in this fact, according to the publication, all this was the result of the lack of administrative organisation and lack of internal control in this body. For example, it is stated that the Accounting Office did not register the assignments in the accounting books and thus the picture emerged that the Festival owes suppliers instead of credit institutions. In view of the above, can the Minister ask: First, is it true what this post mentions? If it is true, we ask that this conclusion be submitted to the National Representation of the General Accounting Office of the State. Secondly, according to the above-mentioned publication, the finding states that economic and management irregularities arise, which caused damage to the public. What action does the political leadership of the Ministry intend to take to investigate any legal responsibilities?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, after the publication, I asked to see the conclusion of the General Accounting Office of the State as well. He came to my office two days ago. It's a hundred and fifty-six pages, but what you're talking about here in relation to the double-payments is indeed in the conclusion. At the same time, I learned that the General Accounting Office of the State has referred this finding to Mr Rakitzis, who requested it, and at the same time has taken the course of justice to investigate the evidence written in the finding. So, at this stage, I can't submit this finding to the House. We have to study it. We are looking at it with my legal advisers to see exactly where the situation is and what we need to do further. On the occasion of this, I just want to say - because there has already been noise in the newspapers - that the Ministry of Culture is politicising itself indirectly through the supervised bodies, which are many, as you know. Each of these supervised bodies has its own autonomy - whether it is an institution of private law, public law or an anonymous company, such as the Festival - and therefore the Ministry's relationship with these bodies is a supervisory relationship. Point one. Point 2: The Ministry has many dimensions in this supervision. He obviously has to stay out of trouble with the artistics of an institution like this. The Ministry of Culture does not make taste or choose - I know - the artistic direction of one or other body, but of course it has the responsibility of supervising good administration and good financial management. So our job is to distinguish these dimensions and to intervene where these dimensions create a problem. I am saying all this because this whole debate has been linked here with Mr Luku's artistic quality, his role as President of the Festival these years. I would like to say from this step forward that Mr Luku's offer and what he has done for the Greek Festival is not at all questionable. However, this is a distinct thing from the points you have mentioned here, which, as I have said, are at a stage of inquiries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I note positively your position on the fact that the Ministry has to deal with the bodies supervised by it with good administration. I should like to point out even more positively that no one, any ministry, should interfere in the artistic work at all, as a creator and also as a citizen of that country who enjoys culture. Of course, the artistic value of no one is questioned and we are not here for this job. Here we are to check the administrative adequacy of those who manage public money. And when you announce, Minister, that there is a matter of EUR 2.7 million at the Athens Festival, neither will the Members nor the government do that, of course, that nothing is happening. Legality, legality, legality! And I would like to say here that no radio or printed warning, no threat of mud will prevent us from doing our duty. War and mud in the faces of SYRIZA - Ministers, MPs, politicians - will not beat our struggle for legitimacy, justice and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u19	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u20	I'll say another word. I obviously agree with what you say. Legality is our duty. I would just like to say that there is a legislative framework that confuses things a little with too many bodies. The responsibilities of an artistic director, for example, are not clear from an administrative board. It is not always clear that a financial manager is required - let us say - in such an institution and, therefore, it is often done - I am not talking about this case, I am speaking more generally - things that are not lawful or that are not right, because there is a confusion of competence. I say this because I would like to say that we are planning legislative changes to the compositions of this type of body in supervised bodies so that things are distinct and, as far as possible, the positions - let us say - of artistic directors are proclaimed - and indeed internationally - so that it is not the responsibility of the Minister that such an artistic current is chosen, that such an artistic school, that is to say, to carry out the work of an artistic body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of the Member State-Member State". Mrs Bakoyannis, we are in the mood to precede, but it has not yet come, as far as I can see, the relevant Deputy Minister, whom we have informed, has to tell you. It's not far away. I think he's around here somewhere. The second first-round question under number 241/1-12-2015, to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the restoration of rail communications at the Greek border - Macedonia and the unobstructed transit of goods, will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's obstruction, although I think it has been somewhat overcome by events and deleted. Also, the third with number 251/4-12-2015 top-level question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on "the separatist activities and cooperation with Ankara Muslims of Thrace", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister and deleted. Also, the fifth question under number 255/7-12-2015 of the first Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies in the Malatos Xanthi Industry, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The fourth question, with number 256/7-12-2015, will be discussed in the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the transfer of workers to the Greek Horse Riders Organization (PIO S.A.).), according to Mr. EC 12-1981, point 2.2.22. Bull. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. Kontonis. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the situation with the OHIM is well known. Already on 10 December, from now on, horse racing and horse racing have been going through the OPCW. With the n. There is provision for the transfer of permanent workers and contractors working in the LAG, even in these unacceptable working conditions, but so far nothing has been done. On the contrary, they've all taken their releases from the DPO and they're waiting for you what you're going to do in the next period. Questions are specific, and because the SYRIZA MEP spoke of legitimacy beforehand, there is a law which you do not implement because - it seems - guarantees workers' positions. That's the legality of capitalism. And alas, if the working class defended these laws, without trying to overthrow them and improve his life all the time. So here we have a law that has not been implemented. Many workers have appealed to justice and have been vindicated. Nevertheless, the government says that all judicial means must be exhausted and taken to the Areo Ice in a process of time-consuming and cost-effectiveness for the workers. It does not address the issue of safeguarding their jobs and continuing with their conditions, so that they and their families can survive. We are therefore asking what you will do to move the process of transfers immediately, by implementing the law, and whether you will ensure that all workers working at the ILO have been employed to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Katota...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u25	Catalan, please. The lower was Pausanias.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u26	Yes, Katotas was an old MP from the Association of Centres. Pausanias Katatas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u27	Yeah, excuse me. Mr Katsotis, you're asking me a question from what you said. Do you want us finally to defend the right to work and work for these people?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u28	You don't! We, of course we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u29	So listen, since we don't. Since 13 May, we - the government of ours - have legislated how to solve the problem of these workers. It was a complex problem, which the former government had literally left on the edge and corner. These workers were in a state of insecurity. Honestly, from the contacts we have made with them and from then on the Deputy Minister for Finance, we felt their anxiety and anxiety about what is going to happen. So we immediately took the legislative initiative and legislated in May on safeguarding the right to work. That is what we consider to be the duty and obligation of the Left Government towards workers, who - a large part of them - have worked for years in a regime which I honestly do not know where else. I am referring to the one-day contracts. The second thing I wanted to say to you, Mr President, is that I am truly surprised that, while throughout November we had discussions with the workers' union precisely about how the problem will be solved in the best way possible and on 4 December an amendment was tabled by Members of the SYRIZA who will resolve the issue definitively and irrevocably, you are coming at 7 of the month and you are tabling the timely question. In fact, yesterday in the committee responsible, I supported this amendment, which resolves the issue irrevocably in my opinion, because, in addition to the two stages, which are supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the Peace and Friendship Stage and the OASA, we in this amendment enable the workers of the OAU to be absorbed by the local government I and II bodies. And we did this, Mr President, because we have seen that there are useful skills not for the Ministry of Sports but for other services, and it would be a pity to take us into the potential of the stages, for example, veterinarians. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So because we wanted a rationale and at the same time a guarantee of work, that is why the amendment was tabled, I supported it yesterday in the committee responsible. I would also like to inform you, because I can see that you obviously do not have that in mind, that this provision has retroactive effect so that there is not a single day left in the course of work of these people. I would therefore like to say to you, Mr President, that the Government is legislating for the benefit of workers so that they do not find themselves in a deep economic and social crisis without a job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u30	Leave something for your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President. We reserve the right to work and at the same time try in a rational way to distribute these workers where they have to, on the basis of their qualifications, so that there is no accumulation in legal persons who do not need them for the work they have done for so many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u32	Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you take out that you're doing everything right, that poorly workers are on the way, that the whole legislative framework serves their needs. This is where you're leveling everything, you guys coming out of me and over? You've leveled everything. You are also making an amendment here - of course we have seen it retrospectively - which does not address the problem, as the workers say. Of course, you are making transfers to regular staff, but you are exempting a large number of workers who have been working for twenty and twenty-five years with this one-day contract. This staff, you exclude. And there's plenty of them. Where are they going? What's your prediction for them? You are also not dealing with the time limit in your amendment. Until when will these transfers end, and by then when will these workers be paid to meet the great needs they have in their lives? We have seen the amendment. We have asked further questions about the Hippodrome workers, Minister. It is not just the one we demand or ask for the implementation of the law that your own government has voted on. You are responsible, Minister, for coming ten months and not dealing with it, when the workers were fired, for the last day. And you're coming now, afterward, to implement the law and get out from above! 'You know, we legislate'. We did not say that you did not legislate, but when, how and for whose benefit. We are therefore saying here that these workers are asking to ensure their jobs, all without exceptions and that their work and their remuneration continue, because you do not mention the date of transfer. Nor do you say whether this concerns all workers. In any case, as far as this is concerned, I would like to say that at some point you have to make a decision. Why should everyone arrive at the Arena Ice? Why? So the first and second degrees of justice aren't enough for the public? Should workers reach the Arena Ice through a very long process of time, but too much cost to them? What's the point of reaching the Arena Ice? In other words, we do not understand that logic. Why in the private sector, for example, can a court or court order be applied and you here say that all judicial means should be exhausted? What are you going to do with that? We also want those who have been vindicated, but those who belong to the same case, to have their jobs guaranteed and their remuneration from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I'm starting with the last one. Where did you see, Mr Colleague, that we are asking for irrevocable decisions, that is, decisions that have been made by the Areo Ice?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u36	They don't work out for those who went...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u37	I heard you, Mr. Comrade. If you read what we have adopted and the amendment, we are talking about permanent staff on the one hand, on the other hand, for staff who have an indefinite contract of private law. We do not ask that the Supreme Court, the Marios Ice, should recognize this irrevocably. This may be recognised by the ALP procedure. Why don't you say that? Therefore, we neither ask any worker to resort to Greek justice and even to the highest degree, but we also give him the opportunity to recognise this employment relationship of indefinite duration of private law and through the administrative procedure, through the principle that the ADP is. Therefore, what you have said before has nothing to do with the Government's intentions or with what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u38	How do you guarantee them the workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Colleague, I understand you're...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u40	How do you guarantee them? That's what you tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Katsotis, you have asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u42	Mr Katsotis, because you are in an absolute deadlock here, because the workers were constantly informed by the Ministry of Justice of the procedure, I tell you that, in order that there would not be a single day at work, we took care of and gave retroactive effect to the provision, the amendment to be voted on by the House in three days, so that it could take effect on 9 December. So there is no problem in these people's working lives. What I would like to say is that we have had a very good cooperation with the workers on this issue. In fact, because of the fact that we had a very good cooperation, we were able to legislate in May, but we are now legislating to solve these problems. However, these problems must be solved by seeing the potential for absorption. Was it possible, Mr. Colleague, for all these workers to be absorbed from two stages? I told you this before, but you were bypassing it. Was it possible to appoint veterinarians to the stages that the Ministry of Sports supervises? Here, there must be a rationalisation and a serious move, so that these people, who go to public services, find work and do the work they know and for which too many of them are skilled and have studied. Therefore, in a serious way, we are sensitive to workers and are determined to solve these problems. You know very well, Mr. Colleague, that if we weren't here, but the previous government, it would have been the dogma that, after an organization closes, workers are fired. And not only would he present it to creditors as a great achievement, that workers are not restored to their jobs, but are on the way. You know that. We met them the previous season. So what we would expect from you is, of course, to ask us what the government's intentions are, and so on. I told you before. But say to us: you did everything you could within this short period of time to solve a problem that was a problem of age and to end a regime of working middle ages that was in the race, with the one-day contracts, as I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u43	What about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u44	For these, we say that we take care where there is permanent staff and where a contract of private law has been recognised indefinitely not by the Areo Ice, as you have said, but even by the ASEAN. All these workers are now restored not only to the supervised bodies in the field of sport, by the Ministry of Culture and Sport but also to OTAs I and II grades. This is the serious intervention by the government, restoring the right to work, which had been violently disturbed for these people who have been on the road since yesterday. And in this way, the problem is solved definitively and irrevocably. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u45	You did not answer those who are twenty years under a one-day contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Kathoto, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u47	Didn't I answer you, Mr. Katsotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u48	Is that them in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u49	Isn't it? Don't you know it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u50	Where is he? Tell me where he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u51	Are they not those who have recognised their contract as an indefinite contract of employment by both the courts and the AACC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u52	What about those who haven't refreshed yet? And for those who didn't go to court, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u53	The process is over! Mr. Kathoto, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u54	What are you telling them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u55	Mr Katsotis, you are in a dead end, precisely because the government did what it had to do on the basis of the law and in keeping with legality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u56	They're listening!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Elementary School of Alimos, the home of Thucydides. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 11 December 2015: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 129(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 239/21/12/2015, a topical question asked by MP Athens of New Democracy Mr Doras Bakoyannis to the Prime Minister about the administration's handling of the banks in the process of recapitalising the banks. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 270/24/7-12-2015 topical question by the President of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of the Union of Centres and MPs from Athens Mr. Vassilis Leventis to the Prime Minister on the criteria for the selection of new host centres for Hotspot refugees on the Greek territory and especially on Kos island. 3. The 277/8-12-2015 topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the Computer Tomograph (PET - CT) at the University General Hospital of Ioannina. 4. The question by No 266/7-12-2015 The question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence on the supply of missiles from abroad for the Greek Army of Xiras. 5. The 281/8-12-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Security, on the reintegration of the forty-two employees of the Recycling plant in Heraklion Crete from WAST SOLUTIONS. 6. Mr Georgios Amyras, Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Amyras, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the position of the Ministry for the PPC's request for free allocation of emission allowances to lignite generation. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question under number 273/8-12-2015 by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the need for the immediate acquisition of a Linear Accelerator at the Radiotherapy Department of the University General Hospital of Larissa. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 276/8-12-2015 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the support and use of the National Centre for Quality Control, Classification and Standardization of cotton in the Cardits Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 263/7-12-2015 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the suspension of authorisations for Renewable Energy Projects by Regional Administrations of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Affairs. 3. The question by No. 267/12-2015 of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Pappas to the Minister of Health, on "the Thrace Muslims premium in health notices of the Ministry of Health". 4. The 282/8-12/2015 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of the Technical Educational Institutions of Chora. 5. Under number 274/8-12-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding dealing with the smuggling of tobacco products, increasing public revenues by combating tax evasion and institutional armouration of the market. 6. The 280/8-12-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, about the activation of an internal control unit of the Ministry of Health. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. - The Question No 258/7-12-2015 by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "the reduced funding in the second half of the provincial establishments in the region of Western Macedonia". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 439/29/21-10-10-2015 by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the integration into the regulation of the MIP of 27-3-2015, of debtors with due liabilities of more than EUR 1 million. I also have the honour to inform the House that the timely question by the Member of the Dodecanese Republic of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the submissiveness of the Dodecanese Port Corps is not being debated, due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. Would you like to say something, Mr. Kremastein?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, first of all I do not know the Minister's commotion. I guess it's got to be something serious. But it is more serious what I wanted to raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u60	I'll tell you. Incidentally, the Minister is at a ceremony involving the Port Corps at his headquarters for a donation. This is the information we have on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u61	Deal. However, this is more serious and the question will be retabled because, as you know, children are drowned every day, people in those seas and the Port House is denounced that it can no longer respond. The most important thing is that it denounces that there is an unequal distribution of port staff in the country and calls for equal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u62	I understand that. But let us not develop the question because I am not going to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u63	It is important that the Minister should come in and answer. So the question will be retabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u64	I suppose you'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u65	I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u66	It is at your own discretion to come back! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the timely question by Mr Spyridon Danel to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the adoption and promotion of the incineration of the dead by the state, is not discussed, after consultation of the honourable Member and the Minister responsible. Also, the seventh question under number 248/4-12-2015, first question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kossilis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened sanction for the loss of power in the event of the consumer's inability to repay, is not discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. The first question will be debated under number 831/4-11-2015 by MP Athens, New Democracy, Dora Bakoyannis, on the revision of the Schengen system. The Deputy Minister will respond, Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis. Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, thank you very much. But before you start counting time, I would like to say that the Bureau should not be particularly happy when it announces a series of questions which are not answered because of a Minister's failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u68	It's not happy at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, allow me! I have enough experience in this House, to know that a government, which does not respect parliamentary control and presents this image, is a government which has a poetry that does not fit into the parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u70	But that is not wrong with the present Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u71	I say this to the ministers, but please, like...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u72	Oh, no. I'm saying he's wronging those presents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u73	It's wrong for the present, all right. We were honoured by three ministers from the twelve today to attend.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u74	No, it's their obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u75	The percentage is not good, Mr President. And I would ask you to convey my strong protest to the President of this House, because this is how parliamentary dialogue cannot continue, that is to say, when the ministers are simply blocked and then they are waiting, by the order of the Holy Spirit, for the problems to be solved. I come now, Mr President, on the Schengen issue and I would ask you to start my time now. Minister, on 4 November I tabled the question on Schengen. I didn't do it by chance. I did, because I wanted to ring a bell at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that a debate is taking place on various fora and on various European interlocutors who want to face their own internal problems, presenting Greece, once again, as the 'black sheep' and as the country that does not comply with its agreements. You have not bothered to answer the question. You were wrong, because if you had been sensitised, you would have prevented what was "dried out" in the post and for which the Prime Minister also sprayed us, swinging the finger here in Anti-Population, about how we dared to say that there is an issue in various European circles, who use Greece to be able to blame it and, therefore, to change Schengen, by making a smaller Schengen. How important Schengen is, I don't have to tell you. I imagine you, at least, know that. But the essence of the case is that, although it ended after the matter, it is because the Greek Government was finally forced to announce that it will implement what the Prime Minister promised at the Western Balkans Summit. The question, however, is why he did not do so from the outset and why, firstly, he did not apply what he had committed himself to. But the impotence of the government is known. I won't get into this and why he didn't do the five hot spots. It's not your business, either. ‘You have let the desert, Mr. Muzala, fight it alone. But what concerns me very much is exactly what you have done with the agreement you have made on FRONTEX. Because here you are presenting a strange situation. You refuse to say, for a long time - you say it when the matter is off - that you accept FRONTEX. What's the reason you don't do it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I looked to figure out what's behind it. And I see with great interest that by magic two NOTAMs - a Greek and one Turkish regarding the Aegean - they are also withdrawn four days after the Western Balkans Agreement. As you know, the subject of research and rescue in the Aegean is a major issue. He has employed all the country's foreign ministers for too many years. The Turks don't admit one piece and we don't want the other. We permanently had our disagreements on this. The Greek side presents a NOTAM with its own positions and the Turkish side presents another NOTAM again with its own positions. These two disappear by magic, they go down and they are not replaced and there is a debate on the European Coast Guard, which was a position which we had at some point supported, but a European Coast Guard that guards European borders, that is, ours, and it is made up of Europeans. Is there, Minister, something you are hiding and which the National Representation should know about the agreements that have been made on the subject of FRONTEX? Because I want to make it clear that the position of the New Democracy was, is, is and will be, European structures must enter the European borders because it was a constant request from the Greek Government. In other words, we are interested in the Europeans accepting that these are the European borders and that they support Greece in its security.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u76	Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have a denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u77	A little further, with the tolerance you have shown to Mr Kontonis, because this is a little complicated, Mr President, and the Minister needs to explain it. So the question is. Is there anything that's bothering you right now? Do you have any requests where the Greek Government finds it difficult to give its consent? Do you have any pressure on the issue of FRONTEX or on the jurisdiction that FRONTEX will have, even without Greek consent? The press reports have a base? Is that why the Greek Government has not respected its signature for such a long time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mrs Bakoyannis for the opportunity to develop the positions and actions of the Greek Government in this matter which concerns both Greek and European public opinion. I would also like to apologise to Mrs Bakoyannis, because for technical reasons we have not been able to answer your question in writing in writing. I think on the same dates we'd be. We are replying orally and I think more extensively in the light of the latest developments. So in your question, there is also an answer in part, but also an unjust criticism, because you have been swept away from slandering articles, without having looked further. We are given the opportunity to clarify them. The answer you have is that for their own reasons some Europeans, some European states, are opening up to issues which challenge the founding conditions of the European Union. These are dissolutionary thoughts and we don't know where they're going to lead. You said the government is known, incompetent. You are completely wrong at least in this regard - other discussions can open them up - because the Government has responded in time to the commitments it has made and to the Mini Summit on the 'Balcan road'. The objections unofficially addressed to her by circles that began on December 3, are completely unfounded, false and slandering. I will tell you this: Point 13 of the seventeen points of the Balkans Agreement provided for the development of FRONTEX forces following an invitation from Greece under Greek administration - that is precisely the Mandate of FRONTEX - to register the unrecorded and helpful ones. On 23 November, by diplomatic means, the representatives of the Council of the Community and the Luxembourg Presidency announced that we would invite FRONTEX to take place. Two days later, at the Coreper. Two days later, at the FRONTEX Council involving Greek officers. On 30 November, the Commissioner for Immigration Dimitris Avramopoulos received an official letter from two Ministers asking him for this matter, the agreed framework and the legal framework, because in the meantime an operational director of FRONTEX had inserted the letter, which laid its own terms and had never been agreed and according to many of them exceeding the mandate of FRONTEX. If you want, I will present these letters to you in order to see and understand each other's sequences and logic and thought. You claim to your written question that the government rejected the sending of four hundred people of FRONTEX. Is there any paperwork on that? There's nothing. I'll tell you the time. According to FRONTEX data - and there is on the site of the earlier announcement - seven hundred seven hundred and seventy men have been asked for the forces of FRONTEX, some six hundred of whom would be made available to Greece. So far, now that we are talking, on 10 December, there are four hundred forty-seven. A month ago, the number was subtle. That is, since the summer of the refugee wave, this storm that has renounced Europe, Greece has been constantly calling for men from FRONTEX who do not come or eurodac machines that do not come. You're talking about three hundred machines. Where did you get that? Who's a conman, a drug dealer, writes such things? Do you know how many machines Greece has? He's got seventy machines. We've asked for a hundred machines that never came. We have ordered ninety, which are not delivered. You don't buy them in "FLINE". There's an American manufacturer you order and deliver. It helped us last minute, two weeks ago, Germany and sent fifteen out of its stock. I'll give you all the evidence. There has never been an offer of men and machines from FRONTEX, which Greece has refused. There was exactly the opposite. All the evidence is at your disposal. There is full transparency. We ask and they don't give. You're talking about civil protection. I visited Mr. Stylianides himself three weeks ago, the Civil Protection Commissioner, to tell him what he can do to help Greece and said to me: 'Don't expect much. The Civil Protection Mechanism of Europe shall be based on the voluntary offer of the Member States and shall in particular concern assistance from the European Union to third countries, to third world countries.’. The help we sent to the floods in Slovenia, please, was five thousand blankets. We made a record. We have asked for the emergency civil protection mechanism to be activated. I have the exact list of what we're asking for. We ask for ambulances, buses, heaters, pumps, generators.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u80	When did you ask for these?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u81	A week ago, when we were recording, I mean... First of all, don't interrupt me. I tell you an entire narrative and don't interrupt me with things like "When did we ask", which correspond to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u82	I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I asked you one question!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u83	I told you something out of the disinformation stream. I tell you that I myself visited the Commissioner and said: 'Do not even bother, we have nothing and you will receive nothing'. We sent five hundred children's coats and two hundred blankets. Do you think that with seven hundred thousand who went through Greece - we now have five to eight every day - the nonexistent assistance of the Civil Protection Mechanism would be equivalent? In the summer the development of RABBIT in the Aegean was discussed. FRONTEX said to us: "Don't ask. We cannot afford to serve you." We asked for RABBIT activation in the Aegean now. Do you know what FRONTEX says? It says that if we send RABBIT, we will abolish our participation in the "POSEDIAN" operation, in the maritime business, in the port company, from which thirty-six vessels have been requested and eight have been allocated. This is the situation, Mrs Bakoyannis. We must ask Europe for the change. We are constantly asking, constantly demanding and constantly taking a multi-storey of them. And at some point we were also in the defendant's stand, the ones who made ninety thousand rescues in two thousand incidents. I can only tell you that in November of the fifty-four thousand recorded in Europe...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u84	You have a second language, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u85	That is what I say and I shall end, Mr President. Of the fifty-four thousand registered in Europe, fifty thousand have been registered in Greece. Greece is working as much as it can, with its weaknesses. It is a country, as you well know, which is in the sixth year of recession and fiscal repression. Whatever he can, he does. We don't do everything we can. We may have done more than that. But we certainly do more than any European state. Only Germany has responded to the refugee wave and small Greece. I'm at your disposal for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u86	Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u87	First of all, Minister, don't get upset. Parliamentary control is the way it is. He's obligated the government to say whether he did or didn't do anything. I do not note that what you did, you did it last week. It's not enough. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u88	You're wrong. I told you on 23 November. What are you talking about for the last week?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u89	Minister, firstly, you're a parliamentarian now, you're not a journalist. Don't interrupt me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u90	You interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u91	I interrupted you for a detailed question. You interrupt me because you're disturbed by what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u92	I'm correcting the inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u93	They'll still bother you, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u94	I'm correcting an inaccuracy. You say 'the last week' and I told you'on 23 November'. I have the letters and I will give them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u95	Very good. So testify to them. I'll tell you about some things that are ours. Our view is not that we find that Europe is not helping, so we are not sending out in writing because Mr Stylianides told us that he has nothing to give us. This is not the case with foreign policy. When a whole year has passed since you have become a government - in fact 11 months - and you tell me that you have initiated the civil protection procedure a week ago, you have made a foul. You have to start requesting and initiate all procedures in writing. That's the one. Secondly, you told me about FRONTEX and that a businessman wants something to do with which you did not agree, etc. Give me the letters to be able to judge what this businessman says. But you have not answered me at all about the matter that I have raised to you. I have raised one matter for you, because I would like to prevent it, Mr Minister, so that we do not run behind the facts again. What is the agreement you have made for the Aegean with Turkey? What is the agreement and what will be the role of FRONTEX? Also, what is the position of the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the European Coast Guard and their responsibilities? That's what you have to tell us. And you have to tell us now! The Greek delegation must know what it is that the government has agreed to rather than dawn us one day on which we will be running behind the facts. The reason why I tabled this question to you and not to Mr Muzala - as most of my colleagues do - is precisely to tell us the consequences that the refugee is having and the decisions taken on foreign policy, which, unfortunately, are now on second fate because of the intensity of the refugee. But that's what we'll find in front of us. And here the one who needs to answer me is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not someone in general. You have a responsibility for foreign policy, you must know what you have agreed - I hope at least you know! - and you, when you agree to something, must inform us about the content of this agreement. So I want to understand exactly what is going to happen in the Aegean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The third and final point, Mr President, is this: there is one issue here, Mr Minister, which also relates to the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone. That is the issue of the repatriation of immigrants. This is a matter handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Neither Mr Mouszalas handles it nor the Ministry of the Interior nor the Port. There, therefore, appears to be a very, very great frustration on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because if repatriations do not begin, whether in the countries with which we have bilateral agreements or in the countries from which there are no agreements, because they are not countries which are at risk, such as the Maghreb countries, something must be done quickly. You cannot wait and say afterward that Europe will not help us, because they will not help us, Minister! We are alone and we need all the evidence so that we can support our position. And we'll win this fight from the time we predict and not when we retrospectively try to correct situations. So, Mr President - and thank you very much for the half-minute you gave me more - I would like to close by waiting for the Minister for concrete answers. Minister, with regard to the papers you say you want to testify, I would ask you to present them so that we can see the dates and compare them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u96	Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like to inform the House that the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Economics, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, have tabled a draft law on 09-12-2015: 'Cohesion agreement, exercise of rights, criminal and other provisions', which is referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u97	Mrs Bakoyannis, when you talk about negligence and frugality, I would like to remind you that the previous government - the Samara - Venizelos Government - had to establish management authorities for refugees and civil protection by the end of 2014. That's never happened. We've never been able to get the money from IMF and ISF. The managing authorities were subsequently set up only in August 2015 by the government that you blame for incompetence. Fortunately, there are management authorities to welcome the 470 million set aside by the European Union as a five-year stream. There were not even the managing authorities to welcome the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u98	Six months later, they still haven't been assigned!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u99	SYRIZA's government has done it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u100	Six months later!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u101	They've been staffed. Six and a half years is over!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u102	Mrs. Bakoyannis, don't turn it into a show! They can do a show and not a reporter!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u103	Now if you want to intervene to say things that don't apply, I tell you the facts. We're talking about facts. If we want to talk with impressions, I can. Let's just say I'm a genius in this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u104	You are!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u105	Okay. But let me tell you something else. Now I'm telling you this thing. There are some gaps, some flaws in the Greek administration, without excluding the government of SYRIZA. However, the refugee wave, firstly, is a planetary phenomenon which has surprised everyone, even the large states. And in the end, we don't sell weapons to ISIS, nor do we sell Das' oil. Others do it and others collect their own actions. But this is a great political debate, as is who wants to change Schengen and who wants to change the mandate of FRONTEX. This is a great political debate that does not fit into the narrow margin of answering a timely and extremely important question. But I will tell you that the whole approach that has been taken over the last few weeks is about what you said at the beginning, namely that there is a disturbance in the European Union, there is a difficulty in dealing with public opinion within their own country. And Germany has difficulties. Chancellor Merkel is in a lot of trouble. At the weekend, the CDU has a conference and half of the party is against it. And she strongly resists a more humanitarian or more pragmatic line of her own. In the Visegrad countries we have extreme right-wing governments which challenge European conditions and question what they have agreed. The new Polish government refuses to receive the nine thousand from the resettlement scheme. Slovakia and Hungary appealed to the European Court of Justice against the decisions of the European Council. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] This is Europe, Mrs Bakoyannis. You are right that we should see as a country how we stand on our feet. So I'm telling you about the re-entry that you're right. The government has attempted two major re-enterprises to Pakistan, mainly symbolic. Because if you send seventy and you come seven thousand, you can't get away with it. But you're sending a message. It's a repulsive agent, a push factor. The first plane didn't accept Islamabad. It was the day that Greece sent thirty people to Luxembourg in the presence of Commissioner Abrahamopoulos and Minister Ashelborn of the Luxembourg Presidency. You understand symbolism. The day before yesterday Austria, Bulgaria and Greece sent a flight to Islamabad, half of which were downloaded and received, because they had no documents. They had papers. They were documents issued by Pakistani embassies. Mr. Avramopoulos visited Islamabad. Ask him what happened. There is a readmission agreement between the European Union and Pakistan. Pakistan does not honour its agreements and there is no way Greece will press Pakistan. Even the United States cannot force it on this issue. Britain has an agreement, it pays badly, and every one of them sends ten, twenty, thirty, forty. It's the only country that manages to send some people back to Pakistan. With Turkey there has been a bilateral readmission agreement since 2001, and Turkey has very little honoured this agreement. Refund rates are null and void. It's not even minimal. It's zero! In June the relationship between the European Union and Turkey on readmission was activated and it will also be a criterion for the continuation of the agreement reached at the summit. We're waiting. You can't pressure someone who doesn't get them back. Greece is constantly trying to send back. And it's not just Greece. The UN International Organisation for Migration is involved, too. We're paying the bills. There's nothing going on. We must be careful about this because it concerns a pan-European phenomenon and a reluctance of countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u106	All right, Minister, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u107	The last thing you said, Mrs Bakoyannis, about the Aegean is very important, but it is not in her question. I'm not prepared for that. I'll check it out. It's important to talk about it. I didn't know you had that information. I have no information that there are secret agreements and they are not contained outside menu in a timely question. If you want to formulate it otherwise, we'll come back later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. The first under number 253/7-12-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, regarding the doctors of P.E.Y. and the dismissed doctors of the EEA, will not be discussed because of the Minister's impediment and deleted. The second question, under number 244/3-12-2015, of the second question by MP II Athens, New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the risk of Greece leaving the Schengen Agreement, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member and deleted. The third, with number 246/3-12-2015, topical question by MP Argolis of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis, Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the problems of the Athens Urban Transport Organisation, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The second question by number 701/30-10-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKEKKKEKKEKEKEKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKIKIKIKIKOKOKOKOKIKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKIKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOUKOKOUKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKOKO Finally, the third question by number 597/27-10-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Health, on the closure of the Centre for Physical and Medical Rehabilitation (KEOFI) In view of a lack of staff, it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-10-S1-commons.u109	With the consent of the House at 10.35 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, 11 December 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the topical and urgent debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
