ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u2	PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs with which the National Federation for the Rights of the Authentic Spectrum (EKAF) calls for proposals, observations and requests for the Ministry of Education's Multi-Project. PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction with which the Mayor of Hersonissos Prefecture of Heraklion by letter is asked to the Secretary-General for Waste Coordination the most acute problem of waste management in modern cities and especially in tourist destinations. New Democracy MP Christos Bukoros filed a petition to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, with which mayor Almyros is requesting the coverage of direct operational needs to staff of the Municipality of Almyros. The MP of the Potamio Kyriakos Charakidis filed a petition to the Ministry of Finance, in which the public limited company called ‘Offset Graphic Hellas Printing Company’ is required by its legal representative to intervene in such a way that the forced confiscation measures are suspended if the debtor is subject to the settlement of his debts. PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, according to which he discloses the Ministry of Education's intention to withdraw the transfers of teachers that took place in 2013. Parliamentary of the New Republic of Christos Dimas submitted a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on a request from the Special Training and Training Laboratory (OHIM) of Corinthia for the establishment of a School for Vocational Training of Special Education. PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Ministry of Finance, by which the Cultural Association of Saint Catherine Municipality of Heraklion 1985 calls for the adjustment of the objective values of the properties of the area. Parliamentarian SYRIZA Xanna reported to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which the Piraeus Labour Centre highlights the problems faced by the Public and Private Buildings Association. MEP SYRIZA ZANNA filed a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism that Mayor Pydna Kolindrou is requested by a press release from the Committee against Tolls for their abolition in the region of Egypt. The MPs of the Communist Party of Greece Giorgos Marinos and Yiannis Giokas filed a petition to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, with which the Agricultural Association of the Municipality of Makkomis is asked to send an immediate stadium of scientists to examine the disease threatening peanut crops. The MPs of the Communist Party of Greece Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou filed a petition to the Ministry of Health, in which the commander of the “Sisminogold” General Hospital of Komotini is asked to find a solution immediately to the supply of liquid and gas oxygen. MEP of the Greek Independent Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reported to the Ministry of Finance, in which he published the Federation of Professional Artists and Commercial Associations of Achaias mention important proposals for the relaunch of the economy. Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos made a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion, under which the Parents' Union called "People's Special Rights P.E.D" formulates applications, suggestions, comments and appeals from parents of guardian students with an autism disruption, as regards the provisions of the Special Education Act. Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, in which the Panachian Gymnastics Union filed a complaint against the administration of "USE PANAHAIKIS". Parliamentarian of the Independent Greeks Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which the Panhellenic Railway Federation is requesting the treatment of time-consuming damage to the railway network. Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which a citizen is required to issue an autopsy and a report on the hotel ‘KYANI AKTI’. Parliamentary of the New Republic of Christos Dimas has submitted a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Economy, Maritime and Tourism Infrastructures, by which the Association of Food Firms of "Xenical Combus" sends a report on the demolition of arbitrary structures in the land area of Port Loutraki. MEP SYRIZA Ioannis Micheloganakis filed a petition to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which the Association of Ecclesiastes, Heraklion, points out the arbitrary construction prevailing in their area and calls for the suspension of the n. 4178. New Republic MP Athanasios Bouras reported to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, with which the Citizens' Movement of Photographs protests not to assist the flooders of the Agraphs. And finally, New Democracy MP Costas Tasoulas filed a petition to the Ministry of Finance, which sent a document from the Municipality of Zitsas on the reduction of objective values in the Municipality of Zitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of petitions has been completed. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Public Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. Also, MP Heraklion Vassilis Kegeroglou by letter to the President of Parliament, Zoe Konstantopoulou, seeks permission from Parliament's work for the period from 31-5-2015 to 3-6-015 because of his transition abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u4	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second question will be discussed under number 199/8-5-2015 by MP Kavala of the New Republic of Nicholas Panayotopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the need for government intervention to claim compensation from European funds for the treatment of flooding phenomena in Tenages. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the time has come to discuss this question, because the eight weeks have been completed for the Member State in whose territory a natural disaster has occurred, to apply to the European Commission for financial assistance from the European Union Solidarity Fund. Philippine Tena is a special area. It is particularly fertile, productive and supplyable for crops. But she's vulnerable too, as I'm going to explain. It is a deep-sea peat of up to ninety meters with organic soil, so suitable to be cultivated, resulting from the drying of oil in the 1930 ’ s. The advantages of this soil are that there is ideal structure and porous soil, very good ventilation of the root system and retention of nutrients but also of humidity, necessary for the crops. The area was declared emergency on 10 March due to very intensive rainfall which took place for four days at the beginning of March. On 12 March I tabled a regular question, which I mentioned, concerning the need to take short-term measures to relieve farmers affected, support their income and necessary anti-military projects, first and foremost, cleansing the central moat. I got an answer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on April 6th. The Minister simply spoke of grants paid to local government, whether in the municipalities or in the region, for natural disaster relief projects. I think we should go beyond that. You need to see two elements - and I will close - on which you are invited to give solutions. The first is an integrated study possibly to address the phenomenon in order to produce a permanent and time-consuming solution to the problem of flooding and damage to agricultural production. We must say that the growing season has started at this time. Some farmers will not even be able to sow their fields. From that point on, we also need to see the question of funding from where we can. The European Union Solidarity Fund provides funds to tackle natural disasters and I think it is a way out to which we can use them. I understand that there are conditions, I understand that there are limitations, but the issue is great, it is time-consuming and it is not solved by fragmentary interventions and de facto funds limited to local government. He wants a comprehensive solution. Imagine a closed basin that floods. The last place where the waters can escape is the lowest part of it. The farmers who grow on this point are, as you can see, doomed on a permanent basis each year to deal with this test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u8	My dear colleague, as you know, the weather this year was unprecedented throughout Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u9	That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u10	For our part, our intervention is carried out by means of a concrete method and hierarchy to exhaust all our possibilities to help the farmers affected. I will begin with the first organisation that immediately appears and is the ELGA. It has been found and is immediately at the time of the damage and has responded to the first part concerning the assessment of the damage. Especially in the Philippines, the necessary checks were carried out, the necessary announcements were made and only six declarations were made concerning three hundred acres of rapeseed oil. Of course, the personalisation of damages is under way. All these findings will then be communicated and the payment of the compensation to the recipients concerned will be followed, provided of course - and you know that - that they are insured. These are issues relating to the functioning of the ELGA. However, as I have said here in Parliament, in these cases, in fact what we are called upon to see as first steps is what we will do with the rights of many producers who will not be able to cultivate these lands, because that is the picture we have in this area as well. And the second, of course, is what will happen with the income of all these producers who are lost or appear to be lost. In terms of rights, we have said that by 2 June the producers must submit their applications, to which the crop is to be cultivated, for this year's production activity. From there on, we through documentation procedures, since they were unable to grow, we will defend and succeed - is a process that is being done in these cases - not to lose their rights. From there on, the second piece of income, through procedures for the approval of the European Commission, will try to give - of course, taking into account the budgetary circumstances - a de minimis, a minimum aid so that we can help the area. Because in your position you were really talking about a more comprehensive plan - because there is indeed a need for these regions - I would like to say that we in contact with the ministries involved - because it is not all our responsibility - will intervene. For example, there will be interventions concerning the dams on the channels, because the temporary treatment does not solve the problem, it moves it next year, and we are again in the same problem, and we are even growing up. So, then, we should contact both the regional authorities and the other ministries to complete a plan of actions in these regions and, at the same time, to see how this project will be served through the procedures of the Rural Development Programme. I'll tell you in my dentistry more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u12	I cannot agree, Minister, with you that from a timely point of view things have been difficult this winter and the conditions have been very unfavourable. I also have to say that it is right to try and stay and maintain the status quo, as is the case, in terms of farmers' rights. From there on, however, with regard to ELGA, I would remind you - you must know that - a farmer cannot be compensated for for uninstalled farming under his regulation. Only established crops shall be compensated. In other words, more simply, someone who has not had time to sow, cannot claim compensation if it is a disaster such as the one with the floods of the Tenagues. So there's a story there. That is why I have spoken about additional funding. There is no money at this time when we are talking about no time at all. I think that the government should take advantage of its efforts - and I would like you to tell me in your dentext, and that is why - regarding recourse to the institutions of the European Union and, in particular, to the European Union Solidarity Fund facing major or regional disasters, that is to say, financing measures to restore damaged infrastructures. I understand that here we are not dealing with damaged infrastructures. But if you were to see the state of the central channel and the barriers that support it, you would understand that very important interventions could be made to improve the situation. I would also advise you to see the relevant proposal by GEOTEE, the Agricultural Chamber of Greece, an Annex to Eastern Macedonia, which proposes a series of interventions that will lead to a more comprehensive and longer-term solution to this problem. Because, as you can see, every time it rains a lot - the weather phenomena tend to become more and more extreme: when it rains, it rains much or it throws hails more and more - there will be a problem. GEOTE has mentioned the reintroduction of the tree vegetation on either side of the canal for a number of reasons, and I think it is a very serious measure that creates a border on the channel, which must have a certain width, so as to help drain, retain water for the summer to water the fields, but also to exacerbate the situation when it rains a lot and there are flooding phenomena. It has also talked about the management of the central dam at the contributor position that effectively manages the flow of water to the central Tenagon channel and has spoken of other drainage projects. I am aware that, for this year, the region will spend a little more than EUR 900,000 on projects in the region of Tenana. Compared to last year's figures, where the amount available in the region was around 70,000 euros, it is certainly more money. I am afraid, however, that this will not be enough for an integrated solution. Therefore, knowing that the conditions are difficult, as there can be a rejection, a request and a claim for European funds from the Solidarity Fund or from where else it can do its best. In addition, this Fund was set up to tackle the flooding phenomena due to climate change. All European countries are more or less affected. It is a question of a permanent and time-consuming solution to this phenomenon. For this year's crop year, I repeat that there are farmers who will not even be able to sow. These are located in the lowest altitude area of the Tenanagons, from where it is difficult, as you can see, to escape the water from the floods. We need the Ministry to do something for them, and I think that only with an integrated intervention, in terms of the financial component, the study on the flooding phenomenon, we will be able to find a solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u14	My dear colleague, I too agree with the need for all the things you have mentioned. Let's put them in a row. Firstly, the rights and, of course, they must be retained, because they also concern the new common agricultural policy. It'll be in a four-year depth. So we need to substantiate the rights. Secondly, it is certain that too many farmers will not be able to grow, so they will not have income. That is why I told you that we should, through de minimis procedures, see what we can secure even part of this income. Thirdly, as far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, we must make it clear that the Solidarity Fund is not a fund that it compensates. It's a fund that needs to be documented. You know that it is mobilised, since immediate damage at country level exceeds EUR 3 billion or 0.6% of GDP in 2011. In the event of a regional disaster, the damage must be more than 1.5% of the region's GDP, while in that region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, according to the data we have, the damage must exceed EUR 125 million. So we will claim that by substantiating our proposal that, because in our country this year, we have been damaged throughout the region, we cannot, in fact, have the funds required by the conditions. But because we really are here - especially this year - have an unprecedented weather phenomenon, we can see how in our request there will be a response. However, we have not completed this process, because there are still areas that have not been withdrawn, to see what is going on there, what has been destroyed and what has not been grown. It is a matter that we will serve as soon as possible. From there on, keep in mind that as far as the study of the Agricultural Chamber of Deputies is concerned, we have seen it and it is a worthwhile study and we have a good relationship, a relationship of cooperation with the Chamber. I would say by closing down, because these are big issues, we must all - and the ministries involved and the regional authorities and local authorities - look at the whole issue. The new Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013 is coming. So, let us look at the actions in place and the possibilities available to us to resolve the issues. Tenages is a case. Next to it, there's Evros, the Serres, cases more difficult. You understand that if we do not see it as a whole, we will not be able to provide a definitive and permanent solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has asked for an intervention. Mr President, you know that we are not used to parliamentary scrutiny, but exceptionally you can take the floor. Just, please. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u16	About two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. What I will mention is also topical and important. I would like to denounce the murderous bombing of a member, executive and candidate of the Golden Dawn and denounce from the Step that none of the parties of the so-called 'constitutional' arch did condemn this murderous attack and none of them were brought in. Unfortunately, the dirty war against the Golden Dawn is holding, continuing. From this step I want to make this clear: I want everyone to know that no matter how much murderous attacks they launch, no matter how much the regime unleashes, the honorable fight of the Golden Dawn for the Greeks and the Greeks will finally work. So know the domestic centers, but also the external enemy, an enemy who wants to dismantle the country, that we Greek nationalists do not fly and hold the flag high. Finally, let the Greek people know that all the so-called 'democrats' have shown guilty silence, you have not condemned the previous murder attack, and that attitude means the indirect attack on the strain or - if you want - a simple citizen, one of them, on the workplace. The non-violent condemnation by the parties of the so-called "democratic arch" is therefore a crime which is a criminal offence which affects the security of the country and the rule of law. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to make it clear that gangs with the cloak of political parties, but also with the protection of political parties, with the cooperation of militants of the media, have, for two years, unleashed a dirty war against the Golden Dawn. All these people have drawn the ground to the paradox - red, blue, and I do not know what other colors - to make murderous and bombing attacks against our nationalist movement. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, Mr President, this time has experienced too many attacks, culminating in the murder of our competitors George Fodoulis and Manolis Kaplelis. And then you did not condemn this act. In essence, no investigation was carried out and the police continued to show great indifference. In these ways, and in the terrorism of the anti-national state, the red para-states or every color of para-states that agitates the country, we respond and respond with a fervent political struggle, a legitimate political struggle, within the Constitution, which will ultimately bring the victory of the Greeks. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You must know that, in the context of the democratic process, any act of violence is absolutely condemned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u20	This is to your credit, Mr President. But it's been a whole day. Yesterday we dealt with the arguments of the President, your colleague, we dealt with a whole lot of issues and none of the parties heard of this murderous attack. That says a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the first with number 736/12-3-2015 question by Mr. Achaias of the River, Mr. Jason Fotilla, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the construction - extension of the Peninsula Canal in the Western Achaia region. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Fotillas has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in Potami, we support the realisation of small and large public-funded projects, because we believe that they can also contribute to tackling unemployment, but also to the development of the rural economy with high-quality products that are competitive on the world market. One of these projects is the implementation of the extension of the central irrigation canal of the Penios dam to the municipalities of western Achaia. The region has been facing a serious aqueous problem, known since the past decades, known to the services of the Ministry of Agriculture - there has been a doctoral thesis on the subject in 1992 - and a vital overall for the West Achaia region. More specifically, the aquifer, through about two thousand drillings from farmers in the region, has fallen to such a degree that water is pumped from a very large depth, beyond the 200 - three hundred measures at an excessive economic cost, but also as a result of water being a brick, inappropriate. The final study of the project was received from the first quarter of 2014, and the approved environmental conditions in force until 2021 have been met. It should be noted that the previous government had promised the project to be included as the immediate priority in the water resource management plan for funding from the new EPA financial framework. The plumbing study has already been prepared, with the total budget being less than EUR 300,000,000, including VAT. The full maturity of the project remains the preparation of a topographical study, for which a credit of EUR 150,000 has been requested and compensation for expropriated areas has been paid. As far as expropriations are concerned, they may be financed by the European Union up to 10% of the total budget for the project, i.e. up to approximately EUR 3 000 000. As is clear from the above, the provision of relatively small appropriations is delaying a great deal of work, otherwise fully mature for integration into a financial framework and implementation. I would therefore like you to reply to us, Mr Minister, in this respect: does the work of extending the Penees Central Canal to the West Achaea for the Government be a priority? In particular, do you intend to integrate its construction into the new financial framework 2013-2020? When and what is the timetable for its implementation? Also, when will the funding be made available for a topographic study on the necessary expropriations and the final ripeness of the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u24	The National Water Commission for the long-term restoration of the underground water system of the Larisa River - you know that it is in a poor state - has drawn up a management plan which provides for the extension of the main canal of the Peninsula to irrigate the area and replace part of the groundwater pumps with superficial surface from the artificial Peninsula lake. As you know and mentioned, the study of this project, the extension of the central Canal of Penios, has been prepared and carried out by the Region of Western Greece. However, I must inform you that the environmental impact study of many services, including the relevant Department of our own, has been made of reservations about the adequacy of water in the dam of the artificial lake that I mentioned before. In the Rural Development Programme managed by our Ministry, which covers the period 2007-2013, three projects have been included in the wider area regarding the modernisation of the Penios-Alfios irrigation networks: There is a project to save energy with an approved budget of 10.800,000 euros and absorbed credits up to 31-12-2013 zero. There is also another project to underpin the flow networks with an approved budget of EUR 11,200,000 and a used appropriation of EUR 1,200,030, i.e. 10%. And, of course, there is one project to replace troubled underground pipelines with an authorised EUR 9,600,000 and EUR 9,300,000, i.e. almost all of the budget. I say this to you, to see that we have a huge problem that arises in the Rural Development Programme of the period we are experiencing. Both years of extension we received 31-12-2015. We are now making a great effort to give us a six-month extension because there is a risk that we will lose between 800,000, 000, 000, 000, 000 euros. That is why I mentioned the previous projects. But on this subject, and on what we are planning to do for the next period, I shall refer to my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, since I would like to point out once again the absolute necessity of the project for the region and for rural crops, but also for the environmental balance, I would like to say to you, because you mentioned and because the inhabitants of Elijah believe that it will be stolen in this way, that the dam is built in Elias, but has the potential to store three hundred to four hundred million cubic metres of water per year, which is enough for all regions, while it is largely supplied with waters coming from the mountainous zone of southern and south-west Achaia, the sources of Erymanthos. Besides, the reservoir of Penios has been designed to irrigate 400,000 acres, of which 300,000 acres in Elias and 100,000 acres in West Achaia. I would also like you to tell me, because you mentioned it, what are the maintenance plans of the Ministry? As you said, there is a serious problem with the Penion dam itself, which will even be the second item on the Regional Council agenda on Monday 25 May. The artificial Peneus dam, I would also like to say, has been unconscious for decades and, as you have said, it is at great risk, with all earthquakes or flooding, that the odds of failing the dams are increasing. His restoration work has been announced and expected for years and is now urgently urgent, because if the doorsteps are not immediately restored - which are not working - all of Elijah's can be flooded. Any earthquake failure or other cause can lead experts to call it dangerous, and then evacuation will cause incalculable economic disasters by fleeing the water volume. I will conclude, Minister, by saying that at the same time there are still authorisations and funding pending for the further use of the dam as a tool for development for the region and its inhabitants. In particular, the proposal to install photovoltaics in the opacity plumes has been put in place to meet the energy needs for the operation of the refinery. Also, an important issue for the development of the area is the finding of resources to complete the tourist kiosk to Borsi. Despite the existence of a study, the pavilion was stopped in 2010 and the contractor was dismantled in 2011. This work is of vital importance to the tourist development of an area that gives much water to Elias and possibly also part of the Achaea Prefecture in the future. The natural beauty of the area and the proximity to Ancient Ilida justify greater importance in the development of tourism. So the question is: when is the study to repair the dam, when it is planned to start work on the project, what is its timetable for completion, and how do you plan to help the competent authorities in order to make further use of the region of the Peninsula dam? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u28	As part of our preparation for our proposal for the Agricultural Development Programme 2013-2020, we have asked the relevant agencies throughout Greece to table proposals for projects and studies and, at the same time, to describe the situation that exists. Many proposals from many regions have been collected, a classification has been made, and what I am telling you now is that within these proposals that have come, the proposal concerning this project has also come. For our part, completing the proposal - we still have time ahead of us - is in our planning to integrate such projects and the documentation that is available creates the conditions to get this project on the path. I will simply say that we have - you understand - a stress, I would say, as to whether these projects can be financed, in particular, in terms of their own participation and in terms of state participation. However, we will certainly be clear about what is going to happen with the previous programme, because there are too many projects for which, at least as bridges to the other programme, we have received this approval. That is what this issue is all about. But since you mentioned, like me, particularly in maintenance, and this problem is generally all over Greece, I must say that maintenance in all these projects is zero, especially because only one ministry is involved. I would say that there are sustainable interventions, one correction, so that we can spend the year and 'fly the ball next year', all of which we have to deal with. We have already started an effort to coordinate the ministries involved - the Ministry of Infrastructure, Interior etc. - to see how we achieve an overall approach, I would say, and this approach, when it is a whole, and there is the necessary funding, then we can permanently solve the problems. Otherwise, we have seen - and I tell you from the Step forward of this House - water-filled dams and at that time the people responsible for saying 'and now what are we doing?' because there was no forecast, there was no network, there was no whole procedure, even for farmers who would use this water, through specific crops. All of this must be seen in its entirety so that any financing of these projects can be effective.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. The first question by No. 206/12-5-2015, by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay in the payments to the cooperatives of the loggers of the Lower Neuroscope of the Prefecture of Drama from the Green Fund, will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of Minister Tsironi and deleted. Also, the second question by No. 1402/1-4-2015 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Miaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the delay in posting forest maps and measures to protect forests and forest lands, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the same Minister and deleted. The third, with number 546-3-2015, question by MP, Mr.Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the commitments made by the Government on environmental and energy matters, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The fourth question by No 1784-5-2015 of the Member of Parliament, Achaias, of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning recourse to the judiciary of television stations for decisions by the Minister of State to pay the fee for the use of frequencies, will not be discussed by the Minister of State and deleted. We will now discuss the third question by No 166/28-4-2015 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the exploitation of our national wealth and energy policy. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Panayotis Lafazanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u30	Of course, I have the floor, but you must know, Mr President, that today, since 7 a.m., I have been in the prison pay phone and I try to see if the Transport Department will coordinate with the prisons because my applications have been lost to come to the House to ask the timely question. Finally, two and a half hours late, my request is approved by the prosecutor and I am here in the House now, after the sirens patrols were running on the Congress Avenue at a speed of 100 miles! You said the previous time when I spoke here - while the Guardian later intervened to get away from the House, because I had the 'thrassos' to speak in a bill - that you understand the intensity of my speech due to the detention. It's not the guard, Mr. President. It is the mockery that we continue in Greece to talk about democracy, about a constitution, about the proper functioning of Parliament, and I am currently experiencing a disgrace, like other Members of my party, who are now in prison, Mr Kouzilos and Mr Germenis. This is not a democracy, Mr President, to try to coordinate the prison departments two and a half hours, so that I can finally ask a timely question, which I would like to say to the Minister that he has a multitude of issues. It is a timely question I have put 15 issues in my mind, because I did not know when to come, whether to come and under what conditions to do parliamentary control. I have given an oath to the Constitution, to the Greek citizens to represent them, and I am deprived of that right. And I haven't lost my political rights, as you know. I've never been convicted. The reason why I'm in jail is well known. The stones know that because we've been in jail. Therefore, we must stop this mockery of a constitution, of a constitutional arch and of the functioning of democracy in Greece. There is no democracy in Greece. I have, of course, managed under these terrible circumstances, with the payphones, with some bad manuscripts I have made, to come here to exercise parliamentary control. So I'm going quickly to these major issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u31	And I've been starting your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the contracts, those that SYRIZA was right, when he was opposition, characterised as injurious to the use of Halkidiki gold, this is a resource, our national wealth and it is a huge issue that this "ELDORADO GOLD" and "ELLENIKI CRYSOS" convention, the interests of Bobola, as SYRIZA had said before the election that he would do. That is why we are asking what is going to happen with this issue, when the complaint of this convention will finally be made and how the Greek gold will be mined. We are certainly in favour of national production, of exploiting our national wealth and of mining Greek gold in Halkidiki and elsewhere, because gold exists in many parts of Greece. When, then, will this injurious, destructive public contract interest be condemned? What prospects is there, so that for the benefit of the Greek State, no jobs will be lost, but new jobs will be created? How does the government intend to move this forward? Secondly, and even more importantly, because we are talking about mineral wealth, it is this: the source of Greece's problem is the lack of productivity, that we are producing absolutely nothing. We don't even produce tomatoes anymore. There is, however, a treasure in the Greek territory, in the underwater area of Greece. I am talking here specifically about gas deposits, which are located mainly south of Crete, and also in western Greece, which the previous government said would start drilling. He didn't do anything at all. It is plentiful about the exploitation of Greek mineral wealth, the oil of the Aegean Sea, the natural gas of western Greece and south of Crete, for many decades. So we ask, when are we going to get mining? What is the timeframe - and here we are asking the government to tell us - when the investigation will finally be completed and when the Greek state will move on to mining, so that the Greek people live on the basis of the goods provided by their own country and not on the basis of the loan, which foreign loan sharks give us to enslave our country and destroy it financially? A major issue has been raised regarding the Russian pipeline, which through Turkey has been said to pass on to Greece as well and will carry natural gas both to Greece and possibly to Europe. That would be a big geopolitical weapon in the hands of our country. When I asked this question about a month ago, there was a great fuss about a statement you made for 5 billion, which would immediately save Greece - the Russians of course disguised it - with this work. So the third part of our question is: is the Russian pipeline via Turkey going to go to Greece and there in Europe? Is there any prospect of this being done? Because we also had interventions by American actors who came to Athens and took the ear of the government. We call for concrete elements, a specific timeframe for when the country will finally produce our national wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Before giving the floor to the Minister to answer, I would like to make a statement to this House. Our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, seventeen students and students and three attendants of teachers from the Municipal School of Prefecture of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. As regards investment in Halkidiki, in Skouria for gold, what our Government does and does so with consistency, rigour and stability, it is to try to respect democratic legitimacy and protect the environment and the public interest in this investment completely and absolutely. So, from the very beginning, our Government has taken a series of actions, including the withdrawal of a visa for architecture and an electromechanical study in Skouria, in order to carry out a thorough examination, if the legislation laid down is in fact respected. We also sent two important comments to Skouria, which identify great deficiencies in the technical studies of the company's metallurgy activities in Skouria and ask for explanations. Of course, some of the great interests in Greece have become accustomed to not being controlled. They have become accustomed to treating themselves as a state in a state and have become accustomed to treating governments, about as an employee. This is why, of course, many were surprised by the actions of the government and its determination and began to react and, indeed, to use the workers as a siege cage to the government. I mean, the government has nothing with the workers in the Halkidiki mines. On the contrary. We, as in the past and now and in the future, support their workers and their rights. We support jobs. We have no difference or conflict with the world of work and, in particular, with the workers in Halkidiki. Our opposition is with the company, with the company, to whether it respects democratic legitimacy, whether it respects environmental legislation and whether it is protected, with what it does, the environment and the public interest. We'll do our best. We will treat every legal instrument in order to protect these legal goods, these great values, which are also our programmed announcements. As far as the pipeline, which can possibly be done in Greece and bring natural gas from Russia, as you know, the choice of the so-called southern runway for Russia to bring natural gas to Europe is not our choice. This choice was made from the Russian side, because it wants to circumvent the Ukrainian road, due to the well-known political problems. In the first phase, this circumvention of the Ukrainian road was attempted to take place with South Stream via Bulgaria. She failed. I am not talking about the reasons for failure at the moment. Russia now seems to be choosing the so-called southern corridor, namely to build an underwater pipeline through the Black Sea and European Turkey and bring natural gas to the Greek Turkish border. We have said the simple thing, which serves the national interest and the popular interest, that if Russia chooses this pipeline, this corridor, we support the crossing of the pipeline with Russian gas from the Greek territory, which will start - this pipeline - from the Greek-Turkish border and via FYROM will be able to go to central Europe. The discussions on the design and implementation of this project are at a very advanced stage with the Russian side. I could say that they're in the final straight line. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] This pipeline - I do not need to go into detail - will contribute to the international upgrading of our country and will shape Greece into a pluralist energy hub. If we consider the TPA that passes through Greece and is already in construction, it will shape Greece in a pluralist gas flow hub, it will bring many benefits to our country with cheap gas prices and budgetary benefits. So this pipeline for us is absolutely useful, it is nationally beneficial, it benefits the public interest, it benefits the people's interests. That is why we support him and we will try to implement it by the end, since it is certainly the Russian side's choice of runway. We know and you know very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u35	Minister, there's a second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u36	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u37	Just because you're gonna talk another time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u38	But we're actually dealing with three questions. That's why I need time. I'm just addressing a few things about major issues. But I'm done. So you know and know that there are multiple reactions to this pipeline, both from European to transatlantic circles. We are, of course, taking these reactions into account, but we are not determined by these reactions. Our attitude is determined solely on the basis of the national interests and the benefit of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u40	From that point on, I will say only one word about hydrocarbons, so that I do not omit it as a matter of course, and I will return to my second language. You know that there is an licensed competition for twenty sea plots in Ionian and south of Crete. This competition ends on July 14th. We believe that there will be good participation. We will judge these participations and promote this competition on the basis of national interest. We believe that this will open up a way to exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons from these marine lands in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u42	I would like a little tolerance in time, please, because of course I have asked a lot of questions, but I have explained the reasons. I wish I could have been in Parliament every day, as is the case in the democratic systems, where Members are in Parliament and are not in prison, so that every day I have a different subject to analyse it with more data, so that I can force the government to give more information. Because, of course, the generalities that the Minister has analysed just now were very correct. Of course it is in the national interest to open the southern corridor, pass the Russian gas from Greece and become Greece an energy hub. We fully agree with that. But here we have visited a very specific American factor, a Jewish-American to be precise, that is, American-American origin, Amos Hockstein, who came here and what everyone says, what was written in the press and has not been disproved - to disprove it to me if it is false - is that he took the government's ears, that he pressed the government, threatening that this pipeline should not be made, that is, that Greece should not give way to Russia to cross its natural air in Europe. We are talking here about major issues, about the national sovereignty of the country, about the national independence of the country, and specific answers must be given to the House. What happened with the visit of this American factor, and if we are ultimately a nationally independent state, and we decide what will happen on our territory, or we are being imposed by foreign players. I would remind you that in 2012, on the same subject, State Department envoy Richard Morningstar, who said: "Don't do any monopolies in terms of hydrocarbons south of Crete". Because there is the great treasure of Greece, because there Deutsche Bank has spoken of 360 billion euros. And we have seen statements from government actors, from the Minister of Defence, which I will at least call jokes. A proposal was made on the US side to exploit the deposits by 50% on each side, without any authorisation from anyone. We have now seen reports of giving base to the Americans. If these are government positions to come and tell the House here, no statements are made publicly in international fora and in foreign media. Of course, now, because there are a lot of issues that are raised, you have said a few things about the business in Halkidiki, about the investment, as you said. When you asked a timely question, SYRIZA, which all of his MPs won the election campaign, when it was Opposition, was not an investment. But it is a robbery investment, if you like, it is an investment for foreign investors of "EL DORADO" and the Bobola family in Greece, which is not only destroying the country's natural environment, mainly dismantling the public interest. And that's where the problems arise. And these revocations of permits were made clear for communication purposes and without substance, so that the government can show to its public that it is supposed to want to control the great interests. What I know is that this contract has not been denounced and will not be denounced and by the Greek mineral wealth some with specific interests and with the "left" government. And the determination you say you have shown we have not seen it. We did, as you said, see that the channels raised a number of workers' gatherings, because precisely those who have the channels also have these investments, but we did not see any determination. Decisive would mean a new competition and whoever gives the most money to get the job and always respectfully to the natural environment. As far as the pipeline is concerned, it is certainly imperative that Greece passes through its territory. It is imperative for Greece to upgrade geopolitically, because only through the geopolitical upgrading will the major economic problem of the country be solved. As far as Skopje is concerned, of course, I would suggest in this House that we call it Skopje. There is no reason to call it FYROM, which includes the synthetic 'Macedonia'. It is Skopje and has nothing to do with Greek Macedonia. And, of course, with regard to the deposits of western Greece in the Ionian Sea, where a competition is taking place, a major issue has arisen, as you know, with the Albanians, who have actually been paid by the Turkish Government. Previously, their annulling court annulled the agreement with Greece with the EEZ and now a major issue has arisen there with the Albanian claims against Greece, which is causing even a problem in the exploitation of hydrocarbons. Finally, the determination you have said in all these major national issues is not seen. Those words are nice to hear, but we don't see it. I have not heard from you, for example, now a specific timeframe. When will Greece get money from this story? When will a drill finally enter the Aegean Sea, south of Crete, in the Ionian Sea? You had said in an election that you would rip the memos, as you said you would rip these contracts with Bobola, with "EL DORADO" etc. Eventually none of this was shattered at all. Today there are new memos coming to the country and I have to ask this question by closing down. I have an obligation to ask this question, because you are a Minister, a Member of Parliament, you represent a left wing of the government. What is finally going to happen with this new memorandum case, which is given how it comes? The measures are data on ENVIRONMENT, VAT increase. That is what everyone knows, all Greek citizens. You must also commit what you will do, Minister, as a Member of Parliament, as a minister, as a representative of Greek citizens, as a representative - I repeat - of a left-handed wing. What are you gonna do? Will you vote on these memorandums, as you voted for Prokopi Paulopoulos, for example for the Presidency of the Republic? All these issues relate to my timely question, because they relate to the national sovereignty of our country, our national independence, which always comes from the economic revenues that Greece can have from its mineral wealth. For decades now, our country's mineral wealth has not been exploiting for the benefit of Greek citizens, but for the benefit of foreign players. I would say, for the most part of this case, that, following the bleeding of the country from cash, it is after our leveling up and converting us into a debt colony, the exploitation of this mineral wealth from foreign power centers, by international loan sharks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u44	First of all, I represent the government here and not any of its wings. The government operates collectively, has a collective policy, and I am currently representing and expressing the collective policy. I would like to tell you that we do not accept patriotism lessons. We are trying with all our powers to serve our country and the Greek people and that is what we do three months under very tough and difficult conditions. The negotiations we are holding are because we do not want to surrender and we want an agreement that is compatible with our programme and can enable our country to stand up and the Greek people to escape the crisis. No one pulled the ear of the government. The government won't accept any of her ears. We unilaterally adopted the Russian gas pipeline and supported it. I personally made important contacts and cooperation in Moscow to promote this pipeline and support it. The country's Prime Minister himself then did the same at central level. And we did this without asking anyone much more without asking our transatlantic allies. Of course, we are aware of their positions, which we were informed of at meetings on their own initiative. These positions express their own interests and priorities. We are, however, pursuing a policy that has a unique aim, our national interest. Greece, as I have said many times and I will say it again, is neither a protectorate nor a Banana. It is an independent country and it now follows an independent, multi-dimensional foreign, economic and I will add additional and energy relations. As far as the Squirrels are concerned, nothing has been done for communication reasons. What we did on "EL DORADO" and what we did in Skouria were substantial initiatives and substantial interventions. That is why you have seen the known reactions from the company and those who support the company's interests in that country. What we want to protect is democratic legitimacy, as I have told you, to protect the environment, to protect the public interest. For us, the "EL DORADO" is not above the laws and above the governments. This is our position and this position will follow until the end. I also told you that in mid-July the tenders we have opened for the twenty marine plots are now over. From that point of view, I imagine that, with the participation that is to take place, the relevant authorizations for the exploration and export of hydrocarbons will be granted in the national interest. Of course, you should know that if these permits are granted, which I hope will be given and followed up, it does not mean that from the other month we will have oil exports from the Greek marine plots. It's a rather long process. Research takes time and much longer, of course, to exploit hydrocarbons, if exploitable deposits are found. This case, of course, as you can see, takes time. However, the preparation by now of the attempt to complete the process as quickly as possible and to support this process will surely produce some positive results, which we hope will be the greatest possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Next is the fifth, with number 131/21-4-2015, a timely question by the Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, concerning the launch of the program "Home Settlement" under the Partnership Pact (EPC) 2014-2020 and the relaunch of the building activity. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Panayotis Lafazanis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u46	Minister, it is a good development that today you are here, after three postponements, to answer my current question and the agony of about thirty thousand families and households. I believe that the appropriate steps have already been taken by your Ministry to mark the relaunching of the House Settlement Programme. It is a programme co-financed by European funds, the Greek public and financial institutions invited to participate in it. The energy efficiency of the country's building stock is, moreover, a central objective of the European Union and has been expressed by the 2010 and 2012 Directives. The aim of the programme is to reduce energy consumption in the domestic sector. In other words, this is a programme of essential importance for the rehabilitation of fossil fuels, for the shift to energy sources that are environmentally friendly and, of course, for the savings of energy resources. From the day of his publication he was widely accepted by Greek society. In fact, it was so great that the Ministry was forced to extend the categories of residential accommodation and to modify the income categories of the beneficiaries with subsidised costs for replacement of shells and shading systems, placement of the thermal insulation in the building shell, including the floor of the roof and pillar, and upgrade the heating system and the hot water supply system. Citizens have been able to upgrade their housing energy on the basis of the specifications of the Energy Performance Regulation and limit their costs. It is therefore a programme of vital importance to the construction sector, which has not just been hit by the economic crisis, but which has already collapsed, so that everyone who is currently involved is unemployed. After that, Minister, can I ask you whether you intend to relaunch the House Settlement Programme? If so, what is the timetable to be followed for his publicity and how many households are expected to benefit? Secondly, how will you handle the approximately thirty thousand pending applications and what about new applications in the programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u48	Because there is another question, which has about the same subject, we could...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u49	You want to talk about them together?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u50	Yes, because we're going to repeat the same things maybe. It's similar questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u51	You mean Mr. Dannelly's question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u52	Yes, Mr. President. I don't know if you agree, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u53	Yes, I agree. That's what I wanted to suggest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Danielle, would you like to develop it now and then answer the Minister to save time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u55	I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u56	Good. After that, at the same time as Mr Constantopoulos' question, the fourth question under number 1127/26-2015 of Mr Spyridon Danellis, Member of the Commission, will also be discussed at the same time as Mr Constantopoulos' question to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the late payments of the "House Settlement programme". Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much. But before that, Mr President, I would like you to allow me to refer to Mr Pappa's complaint and to the general abstentions, because this is a very serious matter. I would like to say very briefly that we, Potami, condemn all acts of violence, regardless of tension and wherever it comes from, without asterisks. We believe that the treatment and condemnation of violence cannot be accepted and, of course, it does not help either the violence is about the detention of citizens for their beliefs or because it is about clearing up night accounts. I think that the relevant ministries and the nominated state must - and will do so - clarify this action, which Mr Pappas has denounced. As far as my question is concerned, the multiplicity of the relevant questions shows the scale of the problem and the popularity of this particular programme. Minister, the current European Energy Efficiency Directive establishes certain concrete measures to achieve the non-binding objective of reducing annual energy consumption by 20% by 2020 in the European Union. Of course, as I said just before, the measures are non-binding. But the committee reserves the right, if the objectives are not met, to proceed to binding measures. The existing directive seems to me to be useful to say that it lays down, firstly, indicative national energy savings targets for each Member State. Secondly, the obligation of the Member States to save by 1.5% per annum energy from fossil fuels. Thirdly, the renovation requirement every year of 30% of the public buildings area. I do not know to what extent and with the specific budgetary circumstances that our country faces, of course, are promoted by the existing design by the individual energy saving measures. The specific programme we are talking about is very popular, but I do not know where it is today, and rightly so, the citizens who have joined in this planning are struggling and worrying because they have invested. There have already been applications in the programme since 2012 in Crete - I imagine in other regions of Greece - which have not yet been satisfied, even though they had been approved. I think it is useful to say that only thirty thousand had joined this programme, although two million seven hundred thousand homes in our country are deprived of any kind of insulation. So the problem is very big and cannot only be covered by a programme with the characteristics of "Economie Settlement". I would like the Minister's view on how he intends to deal with such a big problem, which has many implications and which his solution would respond to many issues and not only to our environmental demands, but also to many sectors that are currently lagging behind, which have to do with building. I must also say that we believe that we must move very quickly to a new model, which will be financed by energy savings itself. There are good practices in the rest of Europe and I think it is time to discuss them here too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u59	Indeed, the "Enhancement" programme is a positive programme, which has found quite a big impact on Greek society, after some corrections have been made to the programme, the grant of which has also increased to 70%, the free grant for energy saving activities and energy saving activities in residential areas has reached 70%. So you understand that in conditions of economic crisis and difficulty the attempt to take advantage of the citizens of this programme was quite great and I would justly say great. This programme has covered the programming period 2007-2014, about fifty thousand citizens, fifty thousand homes, we would say. That's an important number. Of course, however, we must say that applications for membership of the programme were much more and unfortunately accepted from a point of view, because it was known that the resources of the programme were limited and the applicants could not be covered. So from a point on, in order not to trouble citizens and not to be charged with any burdens, they should be informed that the programme has no resources to serve all applications and therefore do not suffer this suffering or at least not to have any expectations of integration due to a lack of resources. At the moment, systematic efforts have been made, I would say, so that both grants and credit obligations can be properly provided for the implementation of the programme. There were, in fact, significant delays in disbursing these grants in the previous period, which harmed the citizens and, of course, harmed them. With the efforts that have been made, particularly in recent years, the flow of funding has been streamlined to a large extent and I think that the smooth operation of the programme will soon be fully restored so that citizens can receive grants and loan instalments in good time. As far as the future is concerned, we are of course planning the programme to continue. There are resources for this, as there will be resources to be added for the service of the previous period's borrowing obligations. We believe that over 40 000 citizens will be able to join this programme in the next few years. We want this program, of course, to reform it, to build a new driver. Our main aim is to direct this programme to the lowest income classes, to the poorest populaces of Greek society, and this will be a specific feature of the new programming period for the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. Here comes the colleagues' remarks. Mr Constantopoulos will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u61	Minister, I know that a few days ago some meetings were held between the Secretary-General of Industry and the Secretary-General of Energy and First Materials Minerals with representatives of the WTO, obviously to see how it will be included in the programme and the use of improved energy glass products. However, the questions are many. You know very well that I am not the only Member who is addressing you on this matter. Other colleagues have also spoken because it is common to note that it is urgent to find a solution to the problem immediately. Minister, there is a great deal of pressure from those who have requested to participate in the programme, but also those who wish to apply for it, to learn your real intentions about the domestic saving programme. You said in Latvia that improving energy efficiency is absolutely nothing for citizens and households that are completely lacking of energy resources, but perhaps for weak economies that are pressurised by stagnation and recession. That, Minister, what does it mean? Is your indirect opposition to the House Settlement Programme? Is this why the programme is being delayed and are the payments of final disbursement applications being delayed? What's going on? Tell us where the process is. Because many professionals who took over the energy upgrade of many of the beneficiaries’ housing have not yet received the money they spent on their technical work. These people have not only been paid, but have suddenly been found to owe them checks. They are in the situation of dismantling their homes because they have dedicated working hours, issued service documents, paid back suppliers, they were asked to pay back the VAT they have not collected and paid from their pockets and, of course, they were taxed from the first euro for money they have never received. As you can see, Minister, and since the government is particularly sensitive to the restoration of injustices, it is crucial for these people to know when they will be paid. As regards applications which are pending, the procedure with the EIB has been completed, energy efficiency certificates at the same cost of EUR 250 to EUR 300 each on average have been issued and have been waiting for more than 12 months for their inclusion in the programme. It is no longer time for communication games, it is time for important decisions, because, Minister, relaunching the program means rebooting the building, it means rebooting the economy, it means market liquidity, it means turning to normality. The citizens are waiting for your actions as to when payments will be made and when new submissions will be made. Tell us a date because all these beneficiaries and their families are in despair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that the Government has revised its initial views on the House Settlement Programme. I am also pleased at what I have heard from the Minister that this programme is going to be reheated in its development. Of course, when I referred to cases that have been approved and included in the non-service applications programme, even if they come from the distant 2012, I meant not the overnumbers that were probably adopted despite the financial data. So there are great loose ends from the past which need to be covered, because what the colleague has just explained is true. Of course, as we have said, the'Household Economics' relates to a very limited number, even though it seems to be a successful programme. I do not know, Minister, whether you have any specific proposals from GREENPEACE, which have recently made public on the major issue of energy savings, which relate to an upgrade programme of at least one million houses over a decade. In particular, it discusses the savings of EUR 9 billion that will mainly lighten households and small and medium-sized enterprises from the cost gap of the energy required and, of course, will create about 100 000 jobs, which certainly seem to be a vision of the moments we live in. There are similar studies, as I have said before, and very good practices in other countries of the European Union. And because we have in front of us and commitments from European directives in relation to energy savings and because as far as I know we are still late to incorporate two specific 2010 and 2012 directives into Greek law, we are threatened with penalties costing us EUR 20,000 with EUR 30 000 per day. I would like, in your view, to tell me where this Greek lackey is, too. But, more generally, I am struggling for the government's overall planning, in relation to the big issue of energy savings, produced by fossil fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u65	I do not know where you found the government's initial views that it is against the "Home Settlement Programme".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u66	Of publications...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u67	There have never been such views of the government and there are no such personal views of my own. The reference made by my colleague in Riga to what I said in Riga has nothing to do with the "Economie Settlement" programme. What I said is a very great truth about Greece in the memoranda and crisis, namely that people are growing in our country and households with no roof, no roof. So what can they save at home? The homeless can't make savings at home because he's homeless. Our priority, therefore, must in any case be to provide shelter. The solution to the housing problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u68	What you're saying is different.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u69	Wait a minute! That's what I told you. I told you it was...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u70	The homeless has nothing to do with the program.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u71	Now, excuse me. So what I said is completely different with the programme. And I'm explaining what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u72	The program...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u73	All right! I have listened to you and I give my explanation, which is based on the facts. I also said that there are households, which are energy-saving impoverished. In what sense? Because they have no heating, because of economic hardship, and they often have no power. So you realise that there must be priority to dealing with these problems, which are too great in our society. From there on, one does not conflict with the other. In other words, our attempt to solve problems of homeless and energy poverty does not mean that we are downgrading or abolishing - as you understood, of course, if you understood it - the programme 'Security at home'. This programme can do a positive job for poor households always, which can face energy-saving problems for their homes, which cannot be dealt with in a different way, but of course also stimulate building activity. As far as the delays in the programme are concerned, as regards the allocation of money, which is free of charge, but also of financial instalments, are not due to our Government. They are delays that have taken place for a long time. We are therefore not responsible for the government for three months now. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But, as I said, we are trying and improving the situation in order to normalise the flow of doses. That is why the responsibility lies primarily with the banks, which are delaying the relevant instalments, and which therefore is afflicting the citizens. In our efforts, I would say that we have a positive mark, a positive impact and a slowly normalization, if not normalized, of dose flow. Therefore, the legitimate complaints have been reduced. Of course, in the next few months, we will try to do much more to solve the problem. From there on, of course, there are also those who have applied, but these applications for membership are pending because they cannot be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u74	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u75	The suffering of these people and their expectation has unfortunately been cultivated by the previous government, which at one point had to tell us that there is no room for new integration in the programme. The new program is designed and will quickly be put into practice. It will be a positive and promotional programme and we believe that it will have a much better and upgraded performance than the previous one. I told you the main direction of the new programme, the new driver that we are forming, which will be aimed solely at the poorest and low-popular strata of our society, because these need to be served by this programme. As far as the issues of the directive are concerned, of course, the relevant bill is being prepared and, in relation to the Community standards, it will come to the House to vote and I think it will be the positive overall for our energy effort and the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u77	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u78	Mr Constantopoulos, because we merged the two questions, take the floor, but please do not change the course of the procedure, because two other colleagues are waiting for you. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u79	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u81	Since the SYRIZA government is a continuation of the previous government, I understand what the Minister said. But I don't understand the inertia there is. Over the past three months, the government of SYRIZA, has been inactive. As far as the beneficiaries who were to be paid and paid money from their pockets were concerned - they have paid VAT, etc. - Their checks are sealed. The program's jammed. Nothing moves, Minister. I want your location here. We want, in other words, immediately - and yesterday, if possible! - The program's rebooting!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u82	You're understandable, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, you are obviously referring to the new programming period and the new programme, because the old programme has exhausted its resources. Those who were to join, joined. There are a lot more applications than those who joined. But they cannot join, because there are no resources. The new resources available in the new programming period will be made available very soon. Already the program is planned and will be put into practice. And, of course, in this programme those who have already applied will join to fulfil their demands. But we'll have a new schedule. There can be no continuity in the old programme, because there are no old resources. The new programme will now be re-enacted and planned to satisfy the citizens and their needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Here is the fifth question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the biomass plant in Kopanadas, P.E. Hercules. The Minister will answer Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after three months of delay, we are discussing a matter that is not just about the region, but has taken explosive and uncontrolled proportions, and that is the factories, the biomass combustion plants. We know, of course, as a Communist Party of Greece that you have accepted the appeals of the Municipality of Phaistos and TEOV III Zone Mesaras in order to cancel the decisions of the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration concerning the construction and operation of the specific power biomass plant around 1000Kw in the region of Copanades of the Municipality of Phaistos Heraklion. This is a positive development. Let me say that it is a victory for the people of the region who did not sit with crossed hands and fought it. It turns out that the fighter finally wins. He who is subjected to or indifferent loses in the end. However, some questions arise and let us put some of the questions that need to be clarified on your side. You refer to the contested decision that it relates to the infringement of the legislation relating to the designation 'High productivity agricultural land' - that is because it is part of the 1976 reservoir - but not of its essential content. So the questions we ask are as follows: does this annulling decision also apply to other regions designated as high productivity areas? If so, who are these? Can you tell us? If not, why? What happens when they are not characterised as areas of high productivity? The dangers to the inhabitants of the region are serious and threaten their lives. So we are also interested in the content of the contested decision and it is the essence - let us - both politically and socio-economicly. A little - very much this issue of factories is not only about Crete but about all of Greece. In Crete, for example, the interest of large power groups with the same gas fuel has been increased, under the institutional framework - a perforated institutional framework - which was based on successive 2005 laws, 2008, 2009. All this legislative and institutional framework took the green light from the institutional framework for producing electricity from alternative sources - including biomass - which was launched by the European Union in 2001. As a result, a dangerous road opens up for massive changes in land use, with serious negative consequences for water-saving horizons, water networks, the irrigation of parcels and of course the health of residents themselves from gas pollutants, odours and microparticles of carbon monoxide. Nor does it seem to you that even though the Committee on Regional Planning of the Region has given its opinion negatively on this and also on other applications, in the same region the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration has approved the environmental conditions for the construction of biomass plants? Does it not cause you questions - to us - the convenience with which the Decentralised Administration ignored substantiated objections and reservations, both of its own Service and of the opinion of the Authority, namely the PESPA of the Region of Crete? It is also questionable for us that it has not reintroduced the corrected environmental impact study to the ERCC in order to give an opinion on it. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to say that we are well aware that in order to facilitate the business groups that invest in the combustion of biomass are being violated in the most vague way by means of a series of poaching fundamental provisions of environmental legislation that the ruling class itself has adopted on its behalf. The issue, Minister, is very serious and it is not just about the specific factory that I have told you. We are asking you directly what measures you intend to take to cancel and cancel any similar project that promotes the privatisation of energy and waste management, limiting crop land by massive expansion of energy crops. And all this at the expense of the environment, the health of the populace and the winter income of the people's family, based on the profits of business groups in the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. I would like to say to you that the institutional framework for the authorisation of biomass power plants is, in our view, Parliamentary, inadequate and in many respects unclear, leaving gaps and discrepancies that benefit profitable electricity production investments, which can be beneficial to private interests, but often are burdening the environment, burdening local economies and societies and not offering employment. You know we don't talk about this for the first time in three months. A question from a Member of the Communist Party raised the question of biomass electricity production from me personally, where I raised the question of the government's concerns. In fact, I spoke very specifically about the investment that was to be made in Basilica in a positive way, I would say. We therefore have been discussing this for the second time with a timely question from your party. It is to your credit that you show sensitivity to these issues. Our Ministry has already started working on changing this institutional framework for the licensing of biomass power plants to make this institutional framework as beneficial as possible to our economy and the environment. In our opinion, this review should take serious account of the fact that, during the technical biomass processes for the production of electricity, gas and solid waste are often caused, some of which are dangerous, and possibly hazardous liquid waste is being discharged. It follows, therefore, that electricity generation from biomass is not just a form of renewable energy - wind, solar - but not rarely similar to an energy-use facility for waste. We want to produce electricity from biomass, but in good conditions, in good conditions and with a positive impact balance. As far as the biomass power plant is concerned, the Ministry, as you said, has already cancelled it. He has accepted the appeals of the Municipality of Faistos and the local Improvements Agency, which requested the annulment of the decision to initiate environmental conditions of the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration of Crete. This has been done since 14 April. Therefore, from this point of view, our response to the people's demands for the non-approval of this plant was too early, I would say, and positively, to its appendix and direction. I will be given the opportunity to say a few other things in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u89	Minister, the issues relating to biomass plants, obviously, have similarities, move within the same legal framework as the European Union, which Greece has adopted with previous governments. Let me tell you that you may say that the institutional framework is unclear and that you will rethink it, but at the ECONOMIST Conference what you said as the government's commitment and yours personally is that you are in favour of the liberalisation of markets. But the energy comes within the framework of market liberalisation in the four freedoms of capital, namely movement, goods, human resources and services. It is therefore inconsistent with what you are saying here and you have not responded to the substance, that is to say, in terms of content in relation to the pursuit of large capital in the context of market liberalisation, but that you have shown absolute commitment. Even - let me - you may have made a cancellation decision, but we have learned it through third parties. While you were aware that we had twice postponed the question - an unanswered question three months ago - you had to inform us that we were interested, as you say - and to our honour to have been interested - in giving us this cancellation decision. But allow me, because each region has its specific features, so I will tell you that since January 1914 it has been subjected to the DEDEFOP a hundred and twenty applications. I am referring to Crete. Finally, out of the hundred and twenty were submitted to the Decentralized and Patent Command only eighteen, the six of which originated from one company and four from other two companies. The remaining investors have stopped for several reasons. The sixteen facilities in Heraklion, where environmental impact studies have been presented, are within 30 km radius and are addressed to the same farmers for the same agricultural production. Another seven have been submitted to Chania. The Decentralised Command has approved nine, just before and shortly after the elections. And be careful, shortly before the elections, with a New Democracy - PASOK government and shortly after the elections, with your own government. So you have to tell us how they were licensed. In any case, we criticise the previous government, it represents its own interests and so on. But the government of your own, which claims to be conflicting with interests, why did it license companies? So you must answer these questions. Finally, allow me, because the issue of biomass plants, etc., is deeper, we are starting as a JV from this assumption: that any investments must be favourable to the people and their needs and cannot be made in the context of capitalist development and the European Union. What does that mean? We see very specifically and dialectically the three-fold "ownership, technology and placement", as is the case with water and garbage. We are not just looking at technology or placement, and we are changing the eyelid without looking at the ownership issue, namely the funding and management body. In this respect, therefore, the JRC has put the full ban on any business activity in the energy sector in any form whatsoever. And, of course, it is the JRC that says that only within the framework of popular power will it use all the achievements of science and technology, but with social ownership under labour, popular control for the benefit of workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, while you have not answered us three months now and we have insisted - and this is why we have come for debate here today - let me tell you that this company in the CouncU has given an insulting answer not to the JRC but to the people's demands. Apart from not responding to the specific arguments of our question, however, with courage and dishonestness towards the inhabitants of the region, he went out and even calling people into a social dialogue. So the victim with the victim sitting around talking about what? To sit down and discuss all these consequences that such a factory will bring. This, of course, does not mean that the JRC generally opposes the exploitation of all these alternative forms of energy, including biomass, but with the tripartite I mentioned earlier: ownership, technology and location.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u91	I see you're trying to criticize something you had to pay credit for. It's yours. I respect her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u92	In the first place, I told you to be honest to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u93	I respect that. This is the second time that the JRC has asked - in its honor - a sensitive question of biomass electricity production and you see that the government has responded positively, not of course because you have pressed, not because you have asked the timely question - which, as I said, is good that you have made it - but because we thought it right to cancel investments, which are not beneficial to local economies and the environment and have a generalised response from residents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u94	Is it so bad that I told you it was the residents' conquest that you made such a decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u95	Oh, no. But I didn't tell you it was bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u96	Minister, we also contributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u97	Of course, you did. There have been too many agencies. We responded to the appeal made by the Municipality of Faistos sensitive. We are, of course, taking this into account, we consider it to be very positive. The activation of society and parties for things that are disturbing and making the lives of the citizens surely wants credit. I'm not talking about that. We see her very positively. With regard to the interventions and the positions I have put forward, which I have developed at ECONOMIST - thank you very much for having read them carefully - I think there is certainly a relative falsification. We are in favour of public intervention in the energy sector, we support public enterprises and public investment in this area. We opposed PPC's fragmentation from the first moment. We support the public reconstructed PPC, the public IPTO. We believe that the public intervention role in the field of energy is critical and decisive and, of course, we are against anyone who is using the market in order to serve self-interest, private interests. This has found us opposing, and much more it will find us opposing to the future. We will review, as I have said, the investment framework based on biomass for electricity production. They are inadequate and do not help to facilitate the local economy and economy as a whole from these investments. Of course, as you have said, we recognise that all investments on the basis of biomass cannot be rejected, because they are not all the same in the same direction and impact. One - one must be judged separately, of course, until a new institutional framework is drawn up which enables there to be more objective criteria and more beneficial to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-seven students and students and six educational attendants from the private School of Thessaloniki "Educational School of Thessaloniki The Apostle Paul". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The sixth question by MP II of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, will be discussed to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the Energy Regulatory Authority. The Minister will answer Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u99	Minister, as of 16 March I submitted a written question to you, without strong central political features, but relating to issues of our competence, in particular, to the Energy Regulatory Authority and the Ministry's position on the relevant European Union. You have not answered and I understand that, because many times the number of written answers makes it impossible for the services of the Ministries to answer them, Mr President. That is why I think you should see the reform of this institution. Dozens, hundreds, thousands of questions block the services. However, as I thought it was important, I turned it into a timely question, which, after many postponements, comes here today. Minister, energy interventions are characterised by verbatimism. You say too much, of which there is too much lies, which is disgusting and life and Zoe Konstantopoulou, sometimes with her interventions. What do I ask you? I want you to tell me today, after all these months. Do you have a problem with regard to RAE, which is not in the Chair, and are there any issues of its legal function after 15 June? Do you have a problem? You have received a letter from the Commissioner responsible, which raises two points. The first point is that you are opposed to Europe's central policies, which are now national, our own policies, in relation to the energy market. You have stated here "the Minister of PPC". They tell you that this is not the case and that the citizen pays it when there is no competition on the market. The second thing that tells you is that your attitude to the RAE, based on your statements, of course, on the scoring of its responsibilities, reverses the agreements in which Greece has participated, on energy issues, as they are dealt with at European level. At the recent National Foreign Policy Council, Minister, speaking to Mr Kotzia and in consultation, I told him that Greece's foreign policy is not just made up of what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also of what other major ministers say, such as the Minister of Finance, but also of you and the Minister of National Defence. You are a person who says that it is not only about the interior of the country but also about European energy policy, which is also an international policy and forms a key part of our foreign policy, Minister. So, please, beyond our differences at political level, on these two specific issues, I would like to have specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u101	The honourable Member's question has six individual questions. All this has been overtaken, and now we're going to another two...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u102	That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u103	... which deal with the statements made by the Competition Commissioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u104	Can I tell you something practical, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u106	Minister, that's the way it is. You're right. I had asked a question, Mr President, with five points, but it was written. The weather gave some light to them. The Bureau of Parliament and the Rules of Procedure, as we interpret it, tell us that we do not submit another text. This is being converted into a timely question by itself. In other words, I could not interfere with the text to update it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u107	Understood. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u108	In any case, I am not standing on this now, because the question is being put, but there may be a new timely question. The question is this. All these questions you have tabled have been answered by life and have been answered very positively by politics, initiatives and actions of my own and the Ministry. On the subject of RAE, we canceled the arbitrary decision, in our view, to increase the EMSMAR, that is to say to increase electricity tariffs. And you know under what conditions he made this raise. The increase took place on 31 December, it was not made public anywhere, it was not known. Although it was notified to the government at the time, the government did not announce it for political purposes. Unfortunately, the RAE has served these political purposes with its silence and we finally made this increase public in the FEK on 3 March. We are opposed to every move and initiative which burdens electricity tariffs, particularly at this critical time we are going through, in the period of hardship of the Greek people and when these tariffs are already too high and burdens the Greek people. That is why we have already resorted to a legislative initiative which was passed by the Greek Parliament and with which we are taking these increases back. As far as the administration of RAE is concerned, you are well aware that a tender has been opened for the posts that are vacant, the President, the Vice-President and one member. The publication of this notice is over. We have a broad participation, and within the days we will make the choice of the President, the Vice-President and the member of the RAE. And I think this will help very well. We normally walked on the basis of the provisions of the law. There was no delay and we are therefore moving forward and we will do what the institutions have to do and impose. As regards the Independent Authority of the RAE, I have never called into question the existence and functioning of the RAE as an Independent Authority. What I have said is that the RAE must have institutionalized powers within the framework of Community rules, of course. But not such responsibilities that may be compatible with this institutional framework, but they are in fact oriented by RAE into a role of overgovernment. So it is not possible for RAE to have powers which go beyond the institutional limits allowed by the Community framework and which replace the Government and therefore the Greek Parliament and the people's sovereignty. That is why I said right from the outset that the institutional framework of the RAE will always be reviewed, always in line with the Community framework, but also in line with the principles of democracy and popular sovereignty. We respect European rules in the field of energy. We respect these frameworks that have been set and we are moving strictly within these frameworks to implement our policies. However, this does not mean that we will cut PPC apart and sell "little PPC". It does not mean that we will deliver electricity to the immunity of private interests. It doesn't mean we're privatising IPTO. It does not mean that we will reduce public intervention in the field of energy. This has not done any serious European country. We're not gonna do it. We will support the public energy sector, because we believe that this public sector and its reconstruction can be a vehicle and a lever for a positive way out of the crisis. That's our policy. It is entirely compatible with the European framework. But it is also compatible with the national and people's interests. I have made contacts with the relevant Community institutions and with the Commissioners in the field of energy. I've never seen anything special about them attacking our country. I also met with the European Union's Committee of the Regions - recently came - which gave credit for our energy policy and the progress we make on energy issues. I have not heard any remarks and much more reproach. The government, of course, follows a different policy from the previous one. But this different policy we believe helps the country, its energy security and its development, and it also helps out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, what can I say now? We often say that government officials - I am not talking about Mr Lafazani - lie as they breathe. They embodies this famous 1953 film by Dimitris Psathas, the "Assembled Liar". Sometimes you raise your hands. But in the morning, noon, noon! I cannot discuss parliamentary matters when I do not have a view in common with a reasonable man. I've known the Minister for decades. He's a reasonable man. Are you kidding me? Please very much. I have the letter, I tabled it to the House last time - to return it - sent to you by the Commissioner. He's got four topics. The two are what I tell you and say they don't exist! On 20 April he says to you: "How do you deal with the energy market in Greece with what you say?" 'The European Union has other political decisions to which you are integrated.' And secondly, you say that you will restrict responsibilities of the RAE, which are identified by European Community law, by Union law. I'll testify. Secondly, there is, Minister, the resumption of the Commissioner's arguments in an interview with the EurActiv.gr, which is on 19 May, the day before, and says the same and more stringent. And the Minister now says that "what I say and what I do is a product of my policy that is compatible with EU law and Union policies". All right, so we cannot reach agreement, Mr President. What is a Member and a Minister doing here to operate parliamentary control when they are not based on the truth? I can't say anything. I tell him what he says is contrary to our national and European foreign policy and he says 'no, they are totally compatible and I identify with the European Commission', which the European Commission says exactly the opposite. What's gonna happen? We can't go on like this. It's not opposition. And I refer to the opposition to remind you - Mr Maniotis reminded us last week - that we had here as government the TAP agreement - the House ratified - and in particular Article 8 of the agreement, which provided for a number of beneficial arrangements for Greek companies that would enter the programme. Parliamentary spokesman at the time told the opposition, Mr Petrakos, that it is an agreement that suits companies, etc. and denounced it as an unqualified opportunity to the Greek companies. The Minister is now coming and presents Article 8, the day before yesterday, that gives the Greek companies opportunities. All right, kid, other government, other opposition. But now I'm talking to the Minister. I forget yesterday, which is not for the good of both the parliamentary debate and our country. Let's just drop it, it's over. What's going to happen here, Minister? You have major responsibilities, you are not a random minister. You have major responsibilities. I only ask you about them, I am not involved in general issues of the country's policy, drachmas and other arguments that we have put forward, and indeed very strongly in the past. I'm asking you for something very specific. Finally tell your views. Do not tell me the same thing as the European Commission, when 19 May, the day before, and 20 April, the Commissioner tells you exactly the opposite. I ask you to clarify the positions of the Greek Government. Nor should I ask you, nor should we attack each other, anything else. To know exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u112	I don't want to exacerbate the conversation, but, Mr. Loverdo, be careful in your expressions and kind. I'm returning what you're saying about lies. Who lies in this political life, in public life, the world knows, the citizen knows, the Greek people know. It is easy when you disagree in a political direction to make moral designations. It's unacceptable. Who is reasonable, in any case, to get over it, because it is also offensive to what you are doing. Now, with regard to the European legality of the government, I have not understood, are you the king's king?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u113	"Policy" I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u114	What are you talking about here? Can the Community Commissioner and any Commissioner, etc., of course make statements, but will you judge the government's policy and course? Aren't you going to keep an eye on reality? Aren't you going to keep an eye on what he's doing? Is the partition of PPC compatible with European rules made by your Government? Why is separation compatible with the Community framework, because it favours private interests? Is the sale of the small PPC and the dissolution of the country's public energy base compatible with the Community framework? And when you do this you must be Europeans, and when we say that we are not going to become anti-Europeans and against European rules? What European rule requires that PPC be cut and sold? What European rule requires that electricity networks be sold, namely that IPTO be sold? With what right can one invoke the European Union to pursue these policies? Of course, we know that there are extreme neoliberal directions in the European context. Well, that does not mean that our Government will be hostage to these extreme neoliberal directions, it does not mean that we will implement a policy of dismantling in the field of energy, privatisation, with what this means to energy prices, energy costs in our country and its energy prospects and the Greek economy. We do not accept these, we will not apply them, and they are not incompatible with our presence and our role within the European framework. I told you about the RAE and I repeat it. The RAE, of course, is based on European rules and European regulations. What these European regulations impose will follow, we will implement it. But we do not accept a role for the RAE, which is not imposed by European regulations, which are above the government and above the sovereignty of the people. Any RAE will not set electricity prices and we do not accept that there will be a sylatum that says that the government will not implement any policies harmful to the Greek people in the field of energy, it will be covered by an independent authority and it will deliver the decisions to the independent authority and it will as Pontius Pilate raise its hands, and it will actually cover these decisions, encourage them and encourage them. We do not accept this duplexity. We take responsibility for the central issues and the central direction of energy policy. We take this responsibility and the decisions in front of the Greek people and we know very well that these decisions will largely judge the future of the country and will be judged positively with the decisions and choices of our Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, would you excuse me for ten seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u117	I am not speaking with a fanatical Union spirit. I just believe in Europe, and I believe that parts of our policy are now European and it is good that it is European. But I told you in our first debate, a month ago, that we are talking about 7.5 billion private investment and twenty thousand direct and indirect jobs, of course with the protection of PPC. We are talking about an economic grid, which is about some percent of the Gross Domestic Product. We are not talking about theory, we are talking about people and we are talking about a final price which often helps competition. However, as I speak of the final price - and I have finished - Minister, this morning I was in a public debate and Mr Sakellaridis, the Government representative, spoke of an increase of 1% of the VAT on electricity, i.e. 14%. At the same time, you are alleged to say that you disagree with this. Can you, if you want, tell me what's going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u118	Once again, I would stress that energy investments in our country are welcome, and we support too many energy investments in a positive way. For example, we support the investment of the TPA pipeline and claim compensatory benefits from the passage of this pipeline, which were not and were not claimed by the previous governments. We support it unhypocritically and simply because it serves both the public interest and our national interest and increases, if you like, our country. So don't teach us energy investment support courses. Energy investments are welcome as they move in a context that is positive for the country and its prospects. From there, however, this does not mean that we will downgrade, dissolve, cut and sell our public energy enterprises, which play a historic role, play a historic role, play a great role today and have a great role to get out of the crisis. That's not going to happen, period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u120	From there on, the agreement resulting from the negotiations will emerge as far as it is compatible with our programme. Only one such deal will be accepted by our government. We will never accept an agreement with the institutions, which will put the 'freezer' into the margin and, much more, will run counter to our programme. The deal we're going to make will be compatible with our programme. Therefore, all our election commitments and all government proclamations will be fully followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 25 May 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 242/19-5-2015 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Georgios Diakrias, to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the study of a settlement - delimitation of the great stream of Rafina. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 223/18-5-2015 topical question by the Deputy Minister of Attica of New Democracy Mr. Mavroudi Voridis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the reduction of crime in the Neocto-Privatists of the Municipality of Aspropyrgos. 3. The Question No 219/14-5-2015 by Congressman II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about "the provocative action of Skopje in Florina". 4. The Question No 216/13-5-2015 of the Potamio State MEP Mr Panagiotis Karkasoulis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the strengthening and upgrading of the civil service centres (KEPs). 5. The 245/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the airport of Chania. 6. The Question No 217/13-5-2015 by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the implementation of projects and the provision of services related to the treatment of immigration by way of derogation from the legislation and without publication of a notice. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 232-18-5-2015 topical question of the Deputy Attiki of the Pan-Greek Socialist Movement Mr. Paraskevi (Egypt) Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on increasing transparency in the public sector - "DIAGY". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 241/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the issues of the ferry connection of Samos, Ikaria and Fortunes with Piraeus and other destinations. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 224/18-5-2015 topical question by MP Artis of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Styriou to the Minister of National Defence on the development and upgrading of the Neosclear School of Education. 3. The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on "bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the proclamation of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone". 4. The 230/18-5-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Christina Tachiaou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the risk of the Greek metro from European funding. 5. The 246/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the dangers of the national network of Antirios - Ioannina, Amfechia - Lefkada - Preveza. 6. The 187/5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the deprivation of the fourteen regional airports. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 204/11-5-2015 by MP Pireos of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on tackling the unemployment of Greek seafarers. 8. The 172/30-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the legislative safeguarding of disability pensions and the undisclosed first residence. 9. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje". 10. The question by No. 201/11-5-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the reform of the rules of operation of TIERISIA S.A., finding a solution for business merchants and farmers who are unable to meet their financial obligations, as well as the reopening of the auctioning of the first home. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about compensation for the expropriated property. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 1328/100/31-3-2015 was asked and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the privatisation of the Port Authority of Piraeus (OLP).). Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-22-S1-commons.u124	With the consent of the House at 12.25 p.m. the sitting on Monday, May 25, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
