ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 15-12-2015, the minutes of its PRACTICAL Sessions of Tuesday 15 December 2015 were confirmed by the Bureau in its adoption of the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State’. I propose that the bill should be debated in a uniform manner. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u2	The Minister asked, and said, that the rapporteurs should take the lead and then take the floor. On behalf of the parties, the relevant letters to the Bureau, on the basis of which Mr Christos Papapas are designated as Parliamentary Representatives by SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, from New Democracy Mr. Theodores Fortsakis, from the Golden Dawn, from Christos Papapas, from the Democratic Consortium Mr. Athanasios Theocharopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Athanasios Pafilis, from Potamis Spyridon Dannelis, from the Independent Greeks Mr.Kos Koklis and from the Union of Kentrons Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur is Ms Panagiota Dricelli and New Democracy. I would remind you that any colleague who wants to sign up to the end of Mrs Rapt's position can be electronically registered. After seeing how many Members will be included, we will say and when the sitting will be closed, given that, as you know, around 12: 30' there will be an interruption for Parliament to discuss the waivers of three colleagues' immunitys. So let's start with my colleague from SYRIZA Mr. Panagiota Dricelli. Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting on this bill, the framework for the protection of cultural goods and our national treasures, cultural treasures, which have been affected by wars, by thefts, by lootings, illegal removals, by organised crime and archaocapilia, is substantially improved. Our countless national treasures are today in public and private collections abroad, while the only global monument of the Parthenon remains so far mutilated and dispersed. Illegal trade in and trafficking in cultural goods is also a global and extremely topical problem. The vast range of organized crime that acts in this field, as well as the bent of wars worldwide, have destroyed countless cultural treasures and led others to the hands of demonic circuits. Our country is one of the biggest victims of this time-consuming haemorrhage, as an intransigent multitude of unique antiquities but also of subsequent cultural treasures is today very far from its natural space, Greece. At the same time, we see monuments of global cultural heritage being looted, destroyed and threatened. The case of Palmyra is only the top of a sad spiral of looting and destruction of antiquities, unique monuments of humanity. A similar picture can, unfortunately, be recovered several times in its memory and in the recent history of the Middle East and in previous historical times in Europe. In Greece we have experienced similar injuries throughout our modern history, culminating in the destruction and amputation of the Acropolis in Athens and in the pillaging that took place during the Occupation. Today, as far as Europe is concerned, the phenomenon of archipelago and illegal removal of cultural treasures may not be related to war riots, but remains extremely threatening. Trading antiquities is one of the most widespread forms of organised crime and continues to threaten our common cultural heritage. With the incorporation of this 2014 directive on the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of the Member States, we are coming to improve the protection framework of our national treasures. The improvements made by this directive to protect cultural goods throughout Europe are important steps in the fight against the phenomenon and this should be stressed. Obviously, this directive is only a minimum common denominator among the Member States and, of course, it does not address many extremely complex issues which concern previous historical periods and have so far not been resolved. The directive obviously does not, for example, answer the question of the return of the Parthenon marbles. The scope of the directive does not cover our vast national issue. Nor does it respond to the question of the return of archaeological treasures illegally removed during the Occupation. Finally, it responds only to a limited extent to the issues of illegal removals before 1993, a year in which the question of the protection of national treasures was raised as an important, incidental issue of the creation of the single market. Although it is taking important steps forward, the directive does not cease to be the product of a compromise at Community level and several of its shortcomings reflect the reluctance of some countries to contribute more forcefully. Several Member States of the European Union, in previous historical times, have illegally removed cultural goods from both our country and other countries, which have been either colonies or areas of their war campaigns. This historical reality has shaped the image that we all know and see in the great museums of Europe. Cultural treasures have been transferred there with firms, donations of emperors and kings, while countless others are illegally in private collections or are sold in international auctions. The question, of course, which arises on this point is, of course, whether the directive we are discussing answers with weakness on all these issues, why is ratification so important today? The answer is clear: why he manages to broaden the common European gap in this particular situation. With this directive all the Member States of the European Union are taking a step forward and improving the previous acquis communautaire, which was even weaker. In this sense, we argue that the directive is moving in a positive direction and it is absolutely useful to integrate it into national legislation. The improvements it makes are, in principle, four: The first relates to the removal of the annex to the previous directive, which explicitly defines cultural goods, which fall within the scope of the relevant regulations. This development means that any cultural asset which is considered a national treasure can now be reclaimed and returned. Second improvement introduced by this directive is the extension of a number of deadlines, both in the search for and the possibility of claiming cultural goods. These deadlines are being improved, giving the authorities more time to complete their investigation and, at the same time, extending the scope for cases which can be investigated. The third improvement is the possibility of using the information system for the internal market. This widened the scope of the search for cultural goods, strengthened cooperation between the Member States and increased the effectiveness of the procedures. Fourthly, a significant improvement is the obligation of the holder of a cultural asset to prove that he holds it legally. The 'legislator', i.e. the good, according to the relevant terminology of the directive, must be in good faith, proving that he has taken all the necessary steps in obtaining the good, in order to establish that he is not a product of illegal removal. These improvements upgrade the protection of national treasures throughout the European space and create conditions for even greater protection of goods as a whole. It is clear that the positive provisions of the directive reflect the Greek state's long-term efforts on this issue, and that is useful and fair. In relation to the effort that has been made over time to the social institutions and the activities of the Ministry responsible on the subject, all the actions we are doing today are part of a positive follow-up to what has been done in the past and that is not something that we should ignore. We are continuing, keeping up the positive things we have achieved in the past, and we are striving to move where we did not manage to do so in the past few years. In this sense, we could not go into the issues that have arisen in the last few days, both during the drafting of the bill in the committee responsible and in the field of international developments. It would be inappropriate not to mention the fact that, beyond the European front, our country is also fighting internationally on the subject of the return of our national treasures. Under International Law, Greece is working hard to return our national treasures, fights and succeeds effectively. These battles are coordinated by all the co-legislative ministries and diplomatic victories are accompanied by tangible results. In the same way, the responsible Directorate of the Ministry of Culture, which fights for the search and return of national treasures to our country, has achieved substantial and excellent results. After all, it is also the head of Mercury that has recently returned, but it is not the only one. Since 2009 hundreds of cases and dozens of cultural goods have been handled have returned to our country. At the same time, at the level of international cultural diplomacy, we are moving forward. Who does not welcome the important success of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the very recent decision of 4 December of the United Nations General Assembly, which vindicates our country's claim to the return of our cultural treasures? In a complex problem, however, the return of antiquities stolen or removed, the state continues to work methodically on multiple levels and, of course, does not give rise to the temptation to use the issue for political or micropolitical purposes. It is clear that by incorporating this Directive on cultural goods, the public is expanded for all the Member States of the European Union on this issue. Obviously the main issues remain open and there are also areas of claim. The main points are, of course, the length of time that the regulations could cover, but also the ambiguity surrounding a number of definitions, which should definitely be seen again and taken pan-European initiatives at every possible level. So in this direction we continue to fight, and in no case do we stop working either at the level of the return of the apartheid members of the Parthenon or in connection with the return of our national treasures that have been removed during the Nazi occupation. The Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the Respect for German Debt, which has already been set up, will also focus on this issue. In conclusion, I would like to make a reference to an amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members, which concerns the workers in the Occupied Territories. This amendment ensures that they are rationally transferred to positions of the General Secretariat of Sports and its legal persons, as well as to the Ministry of Culture and Local Authorities. This amendment does not substantially alter the previous regulation, but it improves the possibility of rationalisation of workers, without any additional financial costs and, of course, the Minister responsible will approach it. In closing my introduction to this bill, I would like to stress that we are continuing our multi-fronted effort to reconstruct the country and the battle we are fighting for is all the crucial and open issues. With today's bill we are broadening our scope for action in the field of protecting our national treasures. At the same time, we are promoting positive and diplomatic actions and building alliances in the international community. And with a corresponding creative attitude and on all the other major national issues, we will continue to work hard and, with methodicity and perseverance, we will be able to justify the expectations of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u4	Me too, Mrs. Drittelli. Before I call Mrs Rapt, I would like to say to the Minister that four short-term amendments have been tabled. One was Mrs Drittelli's development. Minister, can you hear me? Please leave the Minister. I'm talking to him right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u5	I can hear you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u6	I would ask you, at the end of your speech, to say which of the four amendments tabled by Members you are accepting, so that the parliamentary representatives will consider it. You also have a late Ministerial amendment, which, in my opinion, is correct as long as I have read it. However, I am taking this opportunity, Minister, to address Parliamentary representatives and, if they so wish, to put them in - to say whether in this amendment, Minister, there is at last a change that is genuine protection from the vandalism of our cultural heritage. As you know, the offence at the moment is actually a crime. It's just that, you know, anyone can vandalize the country's cultural heritage. For example, this unfortunate Palamas in front of the Cultural Center every year is painted in black paint. Not to mention the trilogy fetus of trilogy at the University, which I had to do - I know why I was the mayor and we had taken over the restoration - a year and a half, in consultation with the Ministry of Culture, to clean it up. If, then, this offence does not turn into a specific offence - as you know, the apprehended one goes at least two years in prison, which is not repaid - my view is that never...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u7	He's buying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Carras, excuse me, when your time comes, you will speak. I put it as a reflection. Perhaps not for today. You should think about it, make contact with the parties. Otherwise, what we are saying in this bill and your amendment - which I like - is that you have tabled, I fear that it will be impracticable. When it comes to putting you, above all, but also the Members of Parliament and, of course, the speakers, I would be interested to hear. Mrs Rapti has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of today's sitting is the adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60. A directive which is of particular interest to our country, since it concerns the return of cultural goods which have been illegally removed from the territory of a Member State. And we have special interest as a country, because we produce culture and we have thousands of treasures hidden in countless parts of the Greek land. But at the same time we also have many national treasures of great value in private and public collections outside Greece. They are treasures that had to be here, which were removed in various ways from the place where they belong, which are historically and morally necessary to be in the place where they were created and to tell his story. It is therefore an issue with a historical and moral dimension. We are voting in principle on the draft law, because it really is in a positive direction and creates a more modern protection environment, significantly improving the previous framework of Directive 7/1993.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u10	Mrs. Rapt, I'm sorry for 15 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", sixty-six students and students and four teachers from the 5th High School of Halkidous. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u11	But it is worth seeing the provisions one by one and what is changing by this directive. So we come to the actual debate on the bill, which is there in procedural terms but also some very substantial issues that need to be discussed. For the first article. First of all, the concept of national treasure is defined by each state and not by common lists, a practice which was clearly incorrect. So for what goods our country defines as "national treasures" and have been illegally removed we have a right, a claim for their return. In Article 2, there is a reference to definitions of the law. The concept of 'illegally removed asset' is fully covered, since it is linked to the violation of national rules and therefore is a matter governed by national jurisdictions. I would, however, like to see the concept of 'defence' set out below defined in this article and the concept of 'defence'. Article 3 states that the scope of protection of the law applies to cultural goods which have been illegally removed from Greece since 1-1-1993. So far the framework is identical to the previous one. What does the continuation of the proposal say? It says that the provisions of this law also apply to applications for reimbursement of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of other States before 1-1-1993. Is that how the time limit is right? It's something we'd be very interested in. So, in the question of whether Greece can claim treasures removed from its territory in 1980, is the answer positive? I think not. In any case, then, I think that the wording is problematic. In other words, it is clearly foreseen that the provisions of the law apply to cultural goods which have been removed after 1 January 1993 - only for this reason is the directive in Article 14 - before 1-1 1993 refers to return applications and to goods removed from other Member States, which, for its first part, may have questions of interpretation such as, for example, that it applies to applications for reimbursement already made and relating to cultural goods removed from 1-1 1993 rather than to applications made in the present or future year. As regards the second, it covers applications relating to goods removed from the territory of other States and not the Greek one. It would be appropriate, therefore, to formulate and avoid misinterpretation, to formulate Article 3 in a simpler and clearer manner. That is exactly what we have asked for in the debate in the committee, because there is a fundamental issue. The wording should include return requests made or made for the return of cultural goods removed from the territory of Greece before 1-1-1993. This is a wording that covers our country. Article 4 defines the competent authority for the return and use of the provisions of the law, which is in contact with the counterpart authorities of the other Member States for the joint coordination and updating of procedures for the return of cultural goods. I would first like to add a formal remark, namely that it would be more appropriate as a competent authority to appoint the directorate-general and not the underlying organic unit. I think it's easy to fix. I would also like to propose, for practical reasons, to add to this text of the law as the responsibility of the principle of creating a new, more modern, register of stolen cultural goods in place of replacement or supplementation, if you wish, of the already existing register, which, as it is admitted, is inadequately informed or in any case to highlight its full compliance with it. It is worth better planning, and it is very important, because it will at any moment give a full picture of the treasures that have been removed, of the public's claims, of their estimated value, of the process of return and of other useful elements. Generally speaking, the powers of the central authority are extended. And it is worth noting the positive change in paragraph 3, which extends to six months, two, the investigation period of whether the cultural good found in another state is our national treasure. It therefore allows for the best documentation, which is important for the next stages of the procedure. Article 5 provides that the matters of judicial protection shall be dealt with in a sufficient manner. The Member State may apply for an action against the lawyer or holder of the refund of the goods unlawfully removed from the territory of the Member State for interim relief, even if the goods have been lawful. In this way, the protection of our cultural goods is very important. Article 6 establishes the use of a single European information system for the exchange of information between Member States on this subject. It is obviously an extremely practical provision, because dealing with such problems requires pan-European coordination and the use of a single system helps both to harmonise the practices of the Member States and to speed up the transmission of information and to better manage the issue. I now come to Article 7. First of all, it is positive to increase the time limit for the commencement of the return procedures - an appeal procedure - which is tripled from one year to three, after the date the central authority became aware of the place where the cultural good and the identity of the lawmaker or holder was present. Thus, a restrictive provision on the protection of cultural property in the previous directive is recast in a sufficient manner, significantly increasing the time to bring an action against the lawmaker. After all, the very fact that few cases have come to the courts so far confirms the malfunctioning of the previous judicial protection mechanism. There is, however, a major issue here with the follow-up to paragraph 1, which provides for a limitation of the claim of thirty years from the date the cultural asset was unlawfully removed from the territory of the Member State requesting the return and in exceptional cases seventy-five years, unless there are bilateral agreements between the Member States extending the limitation period or the action is inappropriate in the law of the Member State. I do not know whether this provision can change as soon as it is a European legislation which sets out a clear framework. However, I believe that this provision could be missing from a generally good directive. I cannot understand why the removal of national treasures should be allowed to waive the claim. Why should this act not be inappropriate, creating even stricter conditions for all those who traffic illegally cultural goods? I cannot accept, in other words, a provision for limitations of analogous to the 30-year limitation, which was finally adopted in Directive 93/7, but now too, which ends up rewarding diligence in the concealment of cultural goods. If one compares Directive 2014/60 with the Unidroit Convention on this provision, one will find out why international conventions of this type are a legal basis for the national claims of cultural goods stolen. Because, despite the fact that the directive has been drawn up including many references to this convention - even where there is too close wording - the Convention sets out a framework for broader claims. For example, in Chapter 2, Article 4 of the Treaty, on the performance of stolen cultural goods, it is expressly stated that the claim for the performance of a cultural asset which is an integral part of a designated monument or archaeological site or is part of a public collection is not subject to any other limitation, especially in the three-year limitation since the applicant has been aware of the place where the cultural good and identity of the holder was situated. With all due respect to our common legislation, I think that the Treaty provides a more complete framework for the protection of national heritage in this matter and perhaps it would be good for this directive to contain some more of the scriptures and provisions of the Treaty. We are of course well aware that European legislation is a result of compromises. And we know even better that there is a clear differentiation between the countries of the North and the South of the so-called importing countries, such as Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Denmark, which have a milder attitude to the issue of illegally migrating cultural goods and works of art, and that is why they continue to maintain a rigid and intransigent attitude to the contents of the relevant European legislation and the exporting countries of cultural goods, such as Spain, Portugal, Greece and Italy, which have proposed more stringent and more drastic measures. However, this compromise is not sufficient for us to accept this provision. I close with Articles 8 and 9, whose provisions I consider to provide a good framework of judicial proceedings and also satisfactorily regulate the issues of ownership of the retardant good. It is worth noting that Article 8(2) covers much of the deficit in the interpretation of the concept of 'delegated diligence', which was absent from the earlier directive and raised serious questions of interpretation. In any case, however, at least now the concept is clearly defined and gains the same power for everyone. At the same time, a very significant change is also a shift in the burden of proving due diligence to the holder - the lawmaker of the illegally moving good, with strict conditions, in fact. Finally, compensation for the prefect is a condition for returning the good. And, of course, the State can claim the amount paid by those responsible for removing the cultural good from the Member State. But there is something, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 8, which unfortunately gives us a thought in relation to its operation, and that is its interconnection with Article 7. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has previously objected to the limitation, but our objection has not been accepted. Today we have our objection to record. In Greece when we talk about cultural goods that have been removed from our territory, the first thing that comes to our minds is the sculptures of the Parthenon. And very well, because this is a removal of treasures, which has been calling for restoration for decades. In this sense, the law we are voting on may generally be in the right direction, but it does not give us another framework for claiming the sculptures of the Parthenon and it is something we would like to see. Obviously, the Greek claim, our claim, is unreserved and we will not stop claiming their return in every means and manner. Obviously, that law doesn't change anything. If I made the reference to the Parthenon's sculptures, it is because I felt the need for them to be heard, especially in the context of such a debate. We, ladies and gentlemen, believe that the law is moving in the right direction. It significantly improves the earlier directive and makes the framework for the protection of national treasures better. That is why we are voting for him in the first place. But on the articles, we have our objections. We believe that the additions we proposed could be incorporated into the text of the law. And, of course, to the extent that Articles 3 and 7 cannot be changed, the New Democracy is voting against them, as well as on 8, stressing to all tons the need to abolish the time restrictions on the claim of stolen cultural goods and the need to apply the inalienable requirement of such claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u12	The special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Antony Gregos, is called in Stepma. I think I am expressing the whole House with regard to limitation time. Only the Member States in whose museums are stolen Greek treasures have benefited from passing this article through the known procedures in this directive. You have the floor, Mr Grego.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, it is not exactly the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u14	I didn't say about the government. I said about the Member States.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u15	It is not exactly how these are reflected and these need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u16	You can clarify them, Minister, when you speak and I wish you could change them, because I am sure you do not agree with a 30-five-seven-year limitation. You have the floor, Mr Grego.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, you have given the floor to the special speaker and I do not want to interrupt. But I would like the floor for two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Grego, can I give the floor to the Minister for one, two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u19	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u20	Here, you have the floor, Minister. He accepts the interruption of Mr. Gregos. I'm fixing his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u21	I would like to say, Mr President - to avoid any misunderstanding - that the time limits set in the law are binding provisions. We are talking here about the process of incorporating a directive. So you realise that the question of entry into force is clearly defined and 1 January 1993. Therefore, all limitation time horizons are referred to at this point in time. Further, and here we are dealing with an integration which concerns the Member States of the European Union. It shall not extend in general and in vaguely. So the time margins are clear. And I would like to stress that in the integration process we cannot cut and sew. You all understand that thing. I think you know that, too, that you are an experienced parliamentarian. As far as the issue of limitations is concerned, it is directly related to Articles 3 and 1 January 1993. That is why things that are generally heard, for theft of antiquities of other periods, can be regulated on the basis of both domestic and international law, let alone on the basis of the bilateral, international conventions signed by the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u22	That is exactly what we said, Minister. No one was merciful to you as a government. The Member States which have thus taken the directive have become embodied. You said the same thing in other words.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u23	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Gregos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I would agree with you, Mr President, on the comment you made on the desecration of monuments. To complement here that there was another desecration in Thessaloniki. They stole the rifle from Paul Mela's statue. And say about the desecrations of the temples, which are done by system. I read also in today's edition of the newspaper "HAY" the following: "The loved ones have made metropolitan rethymnon feel." The constant request of the Greek people and the Hellenism of the Dispersion, but also of every intelligent man anywhere in the world, is to return to Greece all the invaluable treasures that belong to it. We're talking about statues, we're talking about images, we're talking about historical relics, we're talking mosaics. The bill to be voted on is about adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60 of the European Parliament and about the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of the Member State. Despite the fact that our country should have already adopted stricter sanctions in its own right for these goods, of which every corner of the world is full, not only has it not, but many times, with the annoyance of the governments and the Ministers responsible, it has done exactly the opposite. That's how our cultural heritage was detested. To force our country to vote on a legislative regime that is better than the present one may seem positive, but it really is not. That is why the responsibilities of those responsible for the various public positions are amputated and who, by their attitude, actions and omissions, have helped to export thousands of pieces of Greek cultural property abroad for a fixed fee. As it is known to all, most of the private collections and their known foreign houses are full of Greek relics, mainly Byzantine and early Christian icons from our monasteries or erects from the Greek land that decorate the homes of tyrants abroad, after being exported due to the indifference of the Greek authorities or the privatization of some Greeks. In this sense, we consider that, for example, the provisions of the law apply only to cultural goods which have been removed since 1-1 1993. What is happening in previous years and why the crime of smuggling and proven exporting cultural treasures is not fully inalienable, as is the case with other international crimes described in the Criminal Code, such as drug trafficking or those related to child pornography, in accordance with Article 8 of the Criminal Code? The same is true of the limitations laid down in Article 7. The claim for judicial protection and the return of the cultural good is recorded after three years - it could be three thousand years - from the date on which the central authority became aware of the place where the good was found and in any event thirty years after the date on which the good was unlawfully exported from the country. But this is how hundreds of illegal exports of goods made during occupation periods in Greece, that is, when the state was dissolved and the Services did not work, that is, when the occupants had the opportunity - as on Ottoman occupation, the notorious Elgin - to take out whole boats with columns and objects of value in order to expose them to their museums today as exhibits of a global heritage. A walk to the largest museums in the world is capable of persuading the most skeptical of this truth. We therefore believe that, despite the fact that the directive and the bill it contains is in the right direction for the future, that is to say, already organized and in peace, society that has to exchange information on stolen cultural goods, does not meet the real needs of Greece in this area, which is the only country - perhaps together with Italy - that can claim lost cultural heritage from abroad. This is because the property requirements arising from the directive are largely outlawed and impossible to function for the objects that have already been exported or are part of private collections or museums abroad. It is, in fact, a monument of hypocrisy to be subject to the same legal status as states that have not only stolen goods, such as England, but also other countries. This legal framework must at least be differentiated as regards the minimum in accordance with the Directive. The way to claim the sculptures of the Parthenon through the court is open in a sense. However, that is a requirement. As I said in committee, there are 50% of sculptures in London in Athens, just 45% and the rest of the 5% in various European museums. We are talking about top parts of incalculable value, such as feeders, meadows and feces. I refer to the known theft of the greatest archaic row of all time, Lord Elgin. Of course, our cultural heritage was occupied by Ottoman conquerors up to Bolsheviks. On these monuments of culture have been supported by the Europeans who are now blackmailing us and not paying any respect to this legacy. For decades the British Museum claims that the Greek and ancient Greek treasure is not a product of theft, but was held by Elgin with the official permission of the then sultan. However, this is still disputed by scientific research. In Cyprus the Turks during the invasion and occupation stole and sold hundreds of images of great value. And, of course, what about St. Wisdom and the destruction she suffered? The Republic of Cyprus, as far as I know, has made some moves on this. We have also referred to the case of Palmyra. Of course, by uncivilized people, such as those animals of ISIS, who destroy monuments like that of Palmyra, we cannot expect anything different or anything legal. In the bill concepts such as "good-faithed nomad", "national treasure" and "revenges" are unclear. The economic benefit for our country can be huge. Never - I repeat again - the slightest serious attempt has been made to claim the sculptures of the Parthenon. There are countries that have raised as a monument of culture a piece of rock, which may be the result of a natural phenomenon. Greece is a country that is closely and primarily concerned with other European countries. We clearly do not have the same historical and cultural heritage as countries such as Belgium or Luxembourg. The Greeks created a culture, a set of achievements, in science, in art, in speech, without any hindrance, without any intention of enrichment and materialistic selfishness, without hatred and envy, but with a view to the fine, true, good. These are not given and are not granted. In the Committee on Morphic Affairs - at least since we have been participating since 2012 - we have never had any relevant information from any government. Nor have we ever been informed by the relevant bodies. And I'm talking about the Central Archaeological Board, the Archaeological Service, the Hellenic Archaeologists Association, the Management Department of the National Archive and the Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods, which is upgraded by this bill, but we don't know if it is sufficiently staffed. Delos is an island that in itself is a cultural treasure and, while the government wants to be harmonized with Community directives, leaves this place neglected, the antiquities exposed, without care and maintenance and dangerous to visitors. The previous governments, of course, displayed the same sensitivity for the Salaminomists' Tumbo or for the home of Greek Macedonian Paul Mela, which is crumbling. However, the Golden Dawn has also asked questions and complaints. "They are the private property monuments of the public?", "Thumbus Salamimans, a large and lasting crime". I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And while all this is happening, we have the state of Skopje, this motto, trying to steal our history and culture directly and indirectly. The position of the Golden Dawn on this matter is well known. We do not accept any compromise either in the name or in derivatives or in any definition. We reiterate that since no one can question that the Macedonians are Greeks, every region that wants to be called Macedonia is just Greek and the Greeks must claim it. We are voting in favour of the principle. As far as the articles are concerned, we have asked the committee responsible a few questions. As a state we were involved in shaping this directive? What did we ask for it to be incorporated and what were we able to integrate? Have we so far sent relevant reports to the relevant European institutions on the matter? Are there any appeals pending? Is there some sort of process going on for a stolen cultural goods right now? Is there a relevant report or list? Are any results expected today? Have we sent reports to the committee? Has there been an appeal? What objects and when? What cultural goods have we moved for? Is there a list? When are the results expected? Article 1 shall describe the subject matter and purpose. We are voting 'the present' here. The procedure and the terms are set out. Article 2 provides the definitions applicable for the purposes of this Law, in accordance with Article 2 of the Directive. We are voting against it. Article 3 defines the scope of the law. The provisions of this Law shall apply to cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of Greece since 1 January 1993 and to requests for the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of other Member States before 1 January 1993. The provisions of the Directive remain restrictive as they concern mainly cases of removal after 1993 and only under certain conditions may also be extended in certain cases of removal before 1993. Of course we are voting against it. Article 4 concerning the competent Central Authority defines the Documentation and Protection Department of the Management of National Archives of Monuments, Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods. Is that a central authority assigned? With what staff? Is there any funds? Is there some kind of training? We are voting against it. Article 5 regulates matters of judicial protection. Each Member State may, by its application, lodged against the lawmaker or holder, request the recovery of the cultural good unlawfully removed. Provision may also be made for interim measures against the lawmaker or holder. We are voting 'at present'. Article 6 concerns the exchange of information on cultural returns. The information system on the internal market is to be used by Member States for the exchange of information on the movement of cultural goods. This will make it easier to identify the cultural goods that have been illegally removed. Good, but we're still in the era of the files, you know these cord papers. In this article, we are voting 'at present'. Article 7 shall apply to limitations. The claim for judicial protection and reimbursement of the cultural good shall be recorded after three years from the date on which the Central Authority has been aware of the place where the good was situated and in any event thirty years after the date on which the good was unlawfully exported from the country and following the exception of certain cases after seventy-five years. Cultural goods should not be subject to limitation. The limitation periods should be abolished and the law should be applied irrespective of the date of illegal removal from the territory of the applicant Member State in which the cultural good is situated. We've been through this. We don't give forgiveness. Cultural goods, especially in Greece, should not be subject to limitation. Of course we are voting against it. Article 8 concerns content of a judicial decision and implementation costs. It is stated here that the single court has laid down reasonable compensation in favour of the prefecture, depending on the circumstances, provided that the judiciary has shown that he has shown due diligence and attention when obtaining the good. What exactly does that mean? The requesting Member State may claim compensation from persons responsible for the illegal removal of the cultural good. Is there any possibility of any criminal liability being attributed to anyone? With what procedures, so that Greece will receive some compensation? We believe that this provision is an empty letter and we vote against it. Article 9 concerns ownership of the cultural asset after its return. It is foreseen that, in the event of a positive outcome of the action, the owner of the reimbursing good must pay to the State the costs or expenses incurred by the State. How will it be ensured? On his own initiative? Will these amounts be paid? Here we are voting on 'ARTONS'. In Article 10 we have the repealed provisions. The previous Presidential Decrees are repealed. We are voting against them, as is Article 11. This bill states that you do not cause costs to the State budget. That's relative. However, revenue from the use of our cultural heritage could be huge, Minister. And because they talked about stolen, we address the government as well as the previous governments. We tell you that, not only for this, but also for the rest, the Greek people demand that you bring back the stolen ones. I shall conclude, Mr President, with some of the proposals we have tabled and with the committee on: serious penalties for archipelagos, a means of deterrence and punishment, because these people are stealing our story. Help from the homogeneity, with the strength it has on many levels and has proved it in practice. Administering the State Services with specialised staff, of course there are no patrols at the moment. International campaign for the return of the stolen treasures of the country and that is a demand. Assistance from the European Union and pressure on the countries that possess our heritage, which is, by extension, our history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u26	I want to inform you, before I invite Mrs. Kefalidou to the Step, that eleven colleagues have been registered. I therefore think that we can conclude the debate and move on to the vote this afternoon. Mr. Carras, you haven't appointed a speaker. It won't be there? You haven't sent it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u27	There will be. It's Mrs. Big Housekeeper. I'll get it fixed right away. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u28	Please come the paper. There's time. Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u30	All right, Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Culture on the return of cultural goods that have been illegally removed. For a country like ours, where Greece and culture are the same concepts, it has great interest. Weapons, drugs and ancients are the triad of the most efficient kinds of illegal trade. Ancient, cultural treasures, religious relics have an additional advantage, since it is neither necessary to build nor to cultivate them. You dig, you find, you sell, or you just steal and you sell. There are too many examples. Last example, the head of Hermes, who appeared in Bonhams, in a large auction house in Great Britain. Some unconscious people found it and unscrupulously sold it. Who, where and when he remained unknown. Only the happy ending is known, belonging to the rare cases: its withdrawal from the auction and its return to Greece. Of course, this is a drop in the ocean. Every stolen work that is detected and repatriated corresponds to hundreds officially sold through international auction houses or moved to the illegal market of antiquities by the archaics themselves. Against the smuggling of cultural treasures, laws are powerless, because profits are huge, too many billions, about 12 billion dollars a year. I will give you an example from my country, Drama. They had been stolen during the Bulgarian occupation of great value religious relics from the monastery of 20, and we recently saw them sold to large American houses. And I'm sure this is happening almost throughout Greece. Protection of cultural heritage is a burning issue for our time and even more for our own country. Every new initiative, therefore, is welcome, even if it is incomplete, even if it needs improvements. The current international conventions and treaties of UNESCO, the Council of Europe and the Unidrroit Convention are trying to deal with the problem, but insufficiently. With this draft law, which incorporates the provisions of Directive 202014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014, it is important to say that it is justified - although not to the extent that we would like as a country - Greece's permanent position, which highlighted the problems and shortcomings of the legal regime provided for in old Directive 93/7/EEC. The new directive introduces a variety of improvements to the old. Firstly, it allows more objects to be considered as protected cultural goods by removing restrictions that curtail the protection provided. It is no longer necessary for a national treasure, in order to qualify as such, to belong to a particular category prefabricated by the directive, but it is left to the national legislator to lay down conditions for the designation of the cultural good. It does not require the removal of cultural good from its place from 1993 onwards, as does Directive 93/7/EEC in force so far. Although the directive to be ratified does not dare completely remove the limitation threshold, an issue that has been raised almost by all Members, by Article 7 and by Article 8, puts a great deal of emphasis on the fact that in any case the cultural treasure, in order to be able to seek and claim from the requesting Member State, has to be removed within the last 30 years, a longer limitation period of seventy-five years on specific cases, particularly matters relating to religious treasures. The country has been firmly opposed to the limitation. That's our objection, too. Nonetheless, it is in the direction that widens the search field for the state demanded for the return of its cultural goods. Secondly, it strengthens cooperation between Member States and the exchange of information between national administrations, using the IMI Information System, Internal Market Information. The early discovery of stolen cultural goods is extremely difficult, without proper information and cooperation between the prosecution authorities of the Member States. Thirdly, it improves a number of important time margins. Once a treasure is identified, the Services must fully document its quality. The old directive only had a period of two months. Now we have six months. Time is short again, but at least it gives government services more time to do better work. The deadline for opening the refund procedure is also extended to three years from a year. Fourthly, the question of the right to compensation for the lawmaker or holder of the cultural good claimed for his return shall transfer the burden of proof to the holder - a lawmaker in demonstrating due diligence when obtaining the cultural good. This provision helps greatly. The directive up to now included non-exhaustive criteria for determining the diligence that the holder of the cultural good should show. This has resulted, easily and without the necessary guarantees, in claiming full compensation as a prerequisite for the return of the cultural treasure to its place, thereby acting inhibitably on several occasions for the Member State at the start of any procedure. In other words, the new directive provides national authorities with the necessary procedural and legal arsenal to deal with and combat one of the most serious forms of international criminal activity. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, for Greece, as a country of origin of cultural treasures of vast volume and unsatisfactory value, and at the same time as a country suffering from archaocausts and the illegal export of its cultural wealth, it is clear that any regulation that is in the logic of more effective protection of cultural treasures is in the right direction. However, in order for the provisions of today's directive to have effect and not to remain on paper, an excellent mechanism for the search and claiming of stolen persons is needed. This role will be taken over by the Department of Documentation of the Ministry of Culture. Since the 2016 budget has just been passed, I cannot help but ask the government. With a budget that is challenging culture, how can we implement the directive which we are debating today and which we are voting on? We all know the answer, but we don't call it, because only grief and bitterness is causing. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has fought since the 1980s for international awareness of the historical importance of cultural goods. We have made titanic efforts to return our cultural goods, with Melina Mercouri, who has mobilized the entire Western world for the return of the Parthenon sculptures and made their claim for life. We continue with the returns of great antiquities from the Geti Museum and the Karlsruhe Museum recently. Everyone will remember the actions of the previous governments and the previous Ministers of Culture to claim the sculptures of the Parthenon from the British Museum, at the top of the construction and operation of the Acropolis Museum. With the directive that we incorporate and in national law we have a legal weaponry that we did not have before. Unfortunately, the directive does not apply in the case of the Parthenon sculptures. That is why there is also our objection to the limitation. Nevertheless, from our land they are excavated and exported almost daily treasures of indestructable value that we can claim and repatriate. But there is one condition. To work systematically, to detect them, to find them, to document their identity. In other words, we need to build a dedicated team of experts who are passionate about their work, to whom we will provide all the means and let them work. Without political intervention, without impeccable declarations by ministers, without any leaks of unreserved personal opinions from parties. To say this without spins, what we need is that we do not have miserable and presumptuous statements like those of the Minister, Mr Baltas, who took the interest of the British press and we have a recent post dated 10.12.2015 - which I submit in the Minutes - published in the British newspaper "THE TIMES" entitled "Amal Kloon loses the Marmara case". [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Harula (Haras) Kefalidou, presents the above-mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The paper refers to the Minister's statements "as we choose the diplomatic path rather than the court for claiming the sculptures of the Parthenon". In fact, Mr Baltas goes on to say: "It is not fair for Greece to take on its own struggle a time when humanity expresses its horror when the "Islamic State" destroys antiquities. All civilised countries must unite and condemn the cultural genocide against the Parthenon." Not much, not much, Mr Baltas likened Elgin to ISIS. He concludes, saying: 'This attitude must be mobilised and not move judicially, at least for the moment'. I do not want to remind you of other inappropriate interventions, such as those of the previous Minister, Mr Xydakis, who, forty-eight hours after the conclusion of the special lawyers that Greece had hired for the legal claim of sculptures, felt it appropriate to dismiss the country's legal rights, saying that the diplomatic and political path would be followed. Of course, as you know, the next day, the British newspapers thanked for an unexpected gift hung up all these statements in the handkerchiefs. If this also reminds you of recent scientific views from another Minister for genocide or ethnic cleansing of the Pontius, you are not wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on this bill by voting 'at present' in Articles 7 and 8, because we believe it. After all, our resignation has given us struggles to get Europe to adopt Greek positions for the protection of cultural heritage, even with shortcomings. But, gentlemen of the government, I would like to tell you that not everything is solved by dukes and bazaar, especially on the international stage. As much as in the dunk as you are top, your performance at serious political negotiations tables has many - but, too much - scope for improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Republic Workshop", twenty-three students and students and one of their educational attendant from the 3rd Arsadeio Municipal School of Psychology. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers of National Defence, Finance and Foreign Affairs have today tabled a draft law: "Undoing the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of Defence Materials". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Kontonis has the floor for four minutes to inform us of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u33	I don't need that much time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u34	All right, as long as you need.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u35	We are informing the House that the amendments tabled will accept the amendment concerning the rehabilitation of workers in the Occupied Territories and the Ministerial Amendment on the execution of works on monuments, as you mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Stavros Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. As stated in the explanatory memorandum to this draft law, it is our country's obligation, as a Member State of the European Union, to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the provisions of Directives 60/2014/EU and 7/93/EEC. As we pointed out in our speech to the relevant Commission, the JRC is a priority issue for the return of all forms of cultural goods, which are the expression of the artistic creation of every place and reflect the historical path and cultural nature of every people. In this sense, cultural goods belong to the people who created them and form an integral part of the natural space in which they were created. So these two questions can be answered in some way: does Directive 60/2014 solve some of these problems in Greece? The answer is no. And as pointed out in the explanatory statement and in the evaluation reports, its inadequacy has proved to be and is only a very limited step. Do the changes presented in this draft law at that time occur to the essence of the problem? The answer is again no and, among other things, it includes a number of blurred points. More specifically, the draft law, like the directive, refers to cultural goods unlawfully acquired from the territory of Greece after 1 January 1993. Firstly, it does not specify exactly what illegal - or in any case the way it is defined is too blurred and wide - and many cultural goods, and perhaps the most important and most of them, have been removed - as far as Greece is concerned - very soon and formally. So what is an illegal removal? like, for example, the Parthenon marbles or the Samothrace Victory. Now, as far as the noise of the Parthenon marbles is concerned, that in this way we give value to the one who removed them, it is essentially an unprecedented controversy, because whether or not they refer in this way or otherwise it does not disturb either the archaocaust or the notion of archaocaust, and much more it does not fight them, but puts them a burger and lets them do their work behind this burger. So here, as far as marbles and generally the return of cultural goods are concerned, there are two issues: first, the ones sold by the Turks who held the Greek space before the formation of the Greek nation - state. Secondly, and most importantly, in our opinion, it does not mean that cultural goods should be removed from a country which does not itself approve of their removal and, in any case, not as goods for sale for profit, as has been done, and it would appear that it will continue to be because the European Union also works, all are goods for sale, so cultural goods. In addition, within the scope of Article 3, Greece accepts applications for reimbursement of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of other Member States before 1 January 1993, thus allowing the other Member States to include in their case-law and the goods illegally acquired from other Member States, such as Greece. We ask why Greece is excluded. We believe first of all that this limit needs to be lifted and that the law should be applied regardless of time limits and everyone. Also, in no case can there be any possibility of deleting the treatment after time, no matter how much it may have to be. It is also questionable whether the new deadlines laid down in the bill are sufficient for the complete investigation, verification, registration, application and enforcement of the law, given the subordination of the competent central authority to the Documentation and Protection Department of Cultural Goods and to the Regional Services of the Ministry of Culture, which, of course, concerns local inventions of antiquities. Such problems are also identified in the legal procedure, which are delays in the trial of cases and here at the expense of subscribing. In Article 8, paragraph 2, it refers to the lawmaker's obligation to prove that he has demonstrated due diligence. The prefect, the thief, has shown due diligence! It's what we're saying to steal your car and the one who stole it from you to prove that he showed due diligence, didn't destroy it, that is, and, if he didn't, he's entitled to receive legal compensation. Nice business! But what else can anyone expect when everything is being merchandised? The compensation to be paid by the requesting Member State to the lawyer who has shown due diligence is also a condition for the return of the cultural good. Mercy! We consider this regulation to be unacceptable and indicative of commercialisation and cultural goods, regardless of the possibility granted under paragraph 6 of that Article to retrospectively claim those amounts from those persons responsible for the illegal removal of the cultural good from their territory. He's getting in for his eyes, obviously, and to gold the merchandise pill, and nothing else, because it's backwards. Run! In order to provide a real solution to the problem, the following topic of principle should be raised: it is considered illegal and the sale and possession by a private or any private or state body of a Member State of any cultural asset coming from another Member State or from a non-member of the European Union is prohibited. These cultural goods shall be returned to their country of origin automatically and without any special procedure or compensation on its part. The 1993 milestone, which tackles the problem of the incalculable value of archaeological treasures that have been snatched by our country during the German occupation, must finally be repaid. Finally, it is hypocritical to believe that any legislation on its own will or will solve the problem as long as it lasts and the gaps in specialist and permanent staff of the Archaeological Office both in the central authority but, above all, in the region. For these reasons, we cannot vote in favour of these regulations. We are voting'residents' on the principle and on the articles only because they represent a minimal improvement in relation to the 2014 directive, in addition to Article 8, that is, the unacceptable compensation for archaic crabs. In Article 8, then, we are voting 'in favour'. I would now like to make a reference to the amendments, and in particular to the amendment which the Minister said he accepted in principle, while rejecting our amendments. Let us see what is involved and what this amendment actually does. So basically, it delivers the execution of works to archaeological monuments to private individuals, putting the zipper here that it should be done with the approval of the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u38	Where did you see these?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u39	Where did we see these? But what are you saying here in your amendment? You say: "In view of this amendment, the adoption of a relevant decision by the Ministry of Culture and Sport on the implementation of works in preached monuments carried out outside the Ministry of Culture services is now required as a prerequisite."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u40	The S.R.R.S.!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u41	Yeah, S.H.I.E.L.D. That's what we're talking All in the NSRF, then! All to the private!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u42	Is the NSRF a private body?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u43	What are the NSRFs? Is the N.S.S. public? They're private! The interests of individuals are served. What are they serving? The interests of the public?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u44	The ministers will answer. They refer to financing from the ESRB.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u45	For profit, the NSRFs are made rather than to meet social needs. Profits! That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u46	Is the SRF a profit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u47	The N.S.S.A.! What is it? Is the private going to work to meet social needs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u48	Mr Balta, when the time comes, you will give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u49	On the other hand, it rejects the amendments tabled by the JRC. These amendments concern the abolition of VAT 23% on cinemas and the reintroduction of the tax on the Cinema Centre, which was much less - it was 12% and 8% on Thessaloniki and 50% less on the areas with less than ten thousand inhabitants - and these amounts being attributed to the Cinema Center. It also rejects the amendment tabled by the JRC to pay those who work in the regions from the state budget, as it rejects the JRC's amendment that all workers working in the Occupied Territories will be able to transfer to the Occupied Territories. That is to say, when they will be paid until they are transferred and, in addition, for all workers who worked in the OHIM before they were transferred. In my dentistry, we will be placed in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u51	Mr Theoharopoulos, before I give you the floor, I would like to inform the House that the Minister has given me a legislative improvement, which I shall read on the Minutes. Minister, your own paper to testify to it in the Minutes. I therefore read the legislative improvement: 'In Amendment No 105 and in Amendment No 5/15-12-2015 after the end of the additional subparagraph in paragraph 4 of Article 10 of the Act. 3028/2002 (GM 153), as applicable, is added as follows: ‘This Decision shall be adopted within 15 days of the submission of the relevant application to the competent services of the Ministry of Justice’. So those of you who are also present on the ministerial amendment, if you wish, take this into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u52	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I asked for the floor for a minute because last night we had a manly hooded attack on the MEP of the Greek Parliament, Mr Vassilis Economou. We would like, therefore, firstly to express our support for this issue and condemn this very clearly. We must not return to situations of political violence again, and this issue must be dealt with immediately. In addition, all democratic forces in our country's political life must condemn this particular fact in the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u54	Mr Theoharopoulos, as it happens and presides, I think that on behalf of the whole Parliament we all endorse what you said and expect the Minister responsible to take those measures so that any Greek citizen and not just a politician can go to any neighbourhood in Athens that he wants safely. Thank you very much. Mr Gregory Psarianos has the floor on behalf of the Potamios. Here, Mr. Fisherian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to begin with the unambiguous condemnation of the male attack of seven, eight people to a Greek citizen, to a fellow citizen of ours, to a colleague of the Greek Parliament. Of course, in here some may agree with each other, with others we may disagree. I personally disagree with the Minister of Baltas and Minister of Constantinople. Do I have a right together with two - three of my friends to beat them up, put them in the offices, break their house, beat them up, because we strongly disagree on political matters? Is it an inalienable right of left fighters to take steps and methods that had previously been passed on to battalions, hiots, germans, donors, to the privileged area of the extreme right? These phenomena, 'black' decades of Greek political reality, can they be transferred to the field of progressive party or left? Did the Left Government in its period of opposition encourage or devour or tolerate such phenomena?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u56	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u57	Never? Did slogans sound on the left-hand squares with red flags " hang them in Wade, burn them, piss them off"? Did holy fathers have said "they pass through them, spit on them, why is not their Christian behavior and way of life"? Did leaders tolerate phenomena or induce stabbing, beatings, murders? Have there been too many murders in our country, not just tricycles, battalions and cocktails? Have political assassinations been committed by executioners who act as left-wing fighters for human rights and a better life? Do we speak of culture and cultural goods - this is the debate today - I, with some friends of mine, make speeches about the Macedonian, about the Greek Macedonian, about the statues, about the Parthenon, and then decapitate statues at the Propylas, or at the Polytechnic or at the Commercial or at Aristotle or in the Democritus? Are we making our universities dreadful spaces, garbage dumps full of slogans, red, black, yellow, green? If you put a Greek university next to a university in Zimbabwe or Botswana - there are such photos - we should be ashamed not only of ourselves as Ministers of Culture or as Ministers for Education, but of ordinary citizens of a country who protests about theft of cultural goods, theft of treasures, theft of the name of a Greek region or historical heritage of our country. As civilised, civilised, civilized and defenders of culture, do we have the right to decide that he is an enemy of the country, that we will burn his office and beat him up? What are we? Fighters or are we just fascists? Is there an infiltration of attitudes that are absolutely fascist, inhuman and barbaric in all the processes of our social life? Did I, as a man born and grew up on the left, on a left that doubted myself, deserve me with three friends, four Stalinist, trotskyists, fascists, to beat them up, to stab them and to burn them alive or to burn some people alive, because in my opinion, they were badly working on a day when we in our company had a strike? What culture and what cultural goods do you want to talk about today? I am shocked by the fact that some people coupled, not people, some animals, cowards, cowards, five, six, seven, ten, together beaten a Member of the Greek Parliament, a fellow citizen, with whom I disagree. At times I agreed on some things, in other words I disagree. With some I disagree very strongly. With the Minister, I also disagree very strongly with Mr Balta. Am I entitled to find five friends of mine who we strongly disagree with and beat him to death? I'm asking you. A fascist I've spotted, and I'm saying he's a fascist there, I'm entitled to go and fill him with seventeen knifes? Tell me! Am I a left fighter? Am I a progressive man? Tell me! I'm shocked by this story. A few days ago some people set fire, blew up the office or home of Alekos Flaburaris, who is the Minister of the Left, the sprayed left right, even. With whom I Alekos Flamburaris - he is my old companion, forty years, I have known him - I disagree very much on many things. Some people went and blew up his house. Some of them attacked and beat Kostis Hatzidakis last year. This year we have other cases. There are too many of them. Now we have the case of Vassili Economou today. Are we going to continue this, friends, patriots, democrats, comrades, rivals, Greeks of culture and the long history of this, which we have an indictment that we are institutions of this heritage? We want to claim the Parthenon's sculptures. Who? We're the ones who're beheading statues? We who paint black the statue of Palama in the Propylaea? We fill our town with posters, slogans, slogans, drawings? There are very nice graffiti, I like very much and I wish we could fill the graffiti city. But this misery of wall pollution, our homes, beautiful neoclassicals that have been renovated with blood, either by state grant, subsidisation, or by the blood of some human being who bought it and found it and made it and it's very beautifully painted, beautiful with its tips and it's full of slogans and some people go by and break the tips - let's say - because he's a fighter of democracy, socialism, human rights and something like that. What culture do you want to talk about, comrades, rivals and other friends and patriots? What's this bill? It is a European directive. I, as a genuine European European, German, French and European Enlightenment fan, who, when Renaissance and Enlightenment occurred in the region of Europe, have been missing and we have been too late to incorporate into our legislation and our logic and the regeneration and enlightenment, which are extreme Greek expressions of behaviour, culture, etc., we have not taken these and have our universities which are wiped out and misguided areas of free movement of ideas, half of the government are university teachers - at a university I cannot go to talk today, Mr Baltas. Do you know why? Because I've been described by some around you - not you - german gypsies, dowry, Chollagou, Quisling and so forth. Let's go to a university in an amphitheatre, talk about culture, and what if marbles call Ellen, sculpture, or feces or pets? Let's go talk together? Why don't you eat the wood, too? By who? The ones you tolerated, that we devastated, that he has a right to a man and his three friends to beat up a sword or kill anyone with whom they disagree vertically and horizontally and diagonals. The draft law is a European directive which incorporates into Greek legislation all that it says about secular goods, religious goods, images, sceptres, crowns, eagles, calves, colonos. One cannot disagree with the incorporation into the Greek legislation of this bill. In some articles in the bill, however, there are some deadlines for 1993, in 1993, in 1954, in 1936, in 1918, because this bill as a European directive relates mainly to Europe of the last hundred or two hundred years, while we have been Europe for some four thousand years... [[Applause from the river wing]] Or we want to be. So because we are the oldest and most civilised Europeans, who made Parthenons when the others ate oak and put the meat under the horse's saddles to soften and eat it raw, because we are the most civilised people in the world, we accept this European directive, which we Europeans should have given as our own directive, as Greek people of culture and the Greek civilised European reality. However, I will disagree with the deadlines, because, as I said before, these directives relate to a hundred, two or three hundred years. Because we have a long history of millenniums, we do not accept deadlines and exclusions. On the whole and on the articles of the bill, of course, Mrs Panayota Dritsel, who has covered us and I do not want to repeat them, Mrs Charas Kefalidou and Mrs Helena Raptis, said very much. All three ladies, as I have said in committee, have said very interesting things, and I do not want to repeat them. I just want to say on the bill - and I will not read to you what I have prepared to read to you - in Articles 3, 7 and 8 we shall vote 'at present' because they set deadlines and time limits for claims and others. I will not speak at all of the effort or of what our country must do, to claim the parts of the lifegivings, the eagles of the Parthenon or the Aphrodite of Milos or the Victory of Samothrace, which some have legally bought, the merchants of antiquities, for the past two hundred, three hundred, five hundred or two hundred years, from Byzantium or from the Ottoman Empire, who have legally removed them from the country in which they existed. These pillows were made during the occupation by Germans, who extracted Greek treasures and took them to Berlin, and then the Soviets, who did very well and "buka" to Berlin and dismantled this trissthm that existed, this shame of humanity, took the treasures and took them to Ermitaz or the Moscow Museum. There are treasures in Egypt, which are in Italy or in other countries. There may also be treasures in Greece from other countries. We, therefore, have not plundered other countries. And when we looted Persia two thousand years ago, we didn't pick up things from there to carry them here. I think we haven't done such extremes. Now we've been doing some misery lately, and we all need to fix this together. I want to say that we need to see very carefully, with an open mind, the concept and importance of culture and education. Watch out, not training. Education. Let's see the excellence. I do not now want to go back to the retreats and the Nazi residues and various things, nor to talk about hunger, etc. And how and how if we legally claim or because we lose the trial, we won't. I don't want to do it, I don't want to go on with it, I'm just going to say a few things, Minister. I want us to be very careful. I'm telling you, I've regretted things I've done, I've regretted my behavior. It is time to regret many other progressive people with whom I grew up next door for behaviors they did, tolerated, or for phenomena that we devoured. I'll say it again once again. It's a shame if these fascists and neonazis and various other paranoid, insane, psychotic. These behaviours are inappropriate to people of culture, the left and progress, and, above all, to people of culture who are prospered by Greek education, dignity and esteem, which we are saying, a curious Greek word that we have forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce Thursday 17 December 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 298/14-12-2015, a topical question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on 'incorrect mobilisation of raw school teachers in the second opportunity schools'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis asked the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about the lack of national planning for the management and hospitality of migrants. 3. The 294/11-12-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on "the separatist activities and cooperation with Ankara Muslims of Thrace". 4. The 290/10-12-2015 topical question by MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of State, on the apparent length of the time limit for completing the members of the Boards. the independent authorities (the Media Licensing Act). 5. The 302/14-12/2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of farmers who have joined the programme for organic farming without conditions and conditions. 6. The 285/8-12/2015 topical question of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, about the shortcomings of specific medicines in many hospitals in the country. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to VODAFONE. 8. The 289/10-12-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the treatment of the shortages of educational staff in the schools of the Municipality of Saronicos. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 299/14-12-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Kasimatis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the concession of the use of part of the women's detention shop in the Municipality of Korydallos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Member of Parliament, on the problem of the Kilkis health structures due to migratory flows. 3. The 295/11-12-2015 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence on the supply of missiles from abroad for the Greek Army of Xiras. 4. The question by number 291/11-12-2015 of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy regarding the dodecanese Port Corps. 5. The 303/14-12-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on redundancies of workers at the "Galactos Xanthis S.A. Industries". ‘REDOPH’’. 6. Under number 287/9-12-2015, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the River Mr. Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning the adoption and promotion of the incineration of the dead by the state. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 297/14-12-2015 topical question by the Member of the Attica of Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance regarding the imposition of a luxury tax on luxuries cars. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Dora Bakoyannis, Member of Parliament, asked the Minister of Finance 257/14-10-2015 question of the smuggling of fuel. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning the invitation to register unrestricted, previous SAEP competitions. I call on Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to move to Stepma from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Because I've known Vassili Economou for many years, he really is a congressman who never gave him the right. It's mild tone, it hasn't. I have another interpretation here, with all due respect to my fellow Member, the Fisherman, who I believe has said very well. Violence brings violence, Mahatma Gandhi said, and when a large part of youth really is squeezing into unemployment, which is probably not responsible for it, it is marginalized to the extremities. And I don't want to describe what extremities. It's on the one hand and on the other. And, unfortunately, these people have felt to a large extent a form of violence, for which they are not responsible, and which, of course, manifests it in this agarbo way that it is understood that nobody agrees and condemns it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u60	"It's not responsible," you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u61	They are very responsible, but I said they are also experiencing - we are all condemning it, I am not talking about it - that it is on the sidelines...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u62	So, deep down, it's justifiable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u63	No, Mr. Fisherman! If you want, listen to me for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u64	Isn't that what you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u65	If you want, listen to me for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u66	It can't be with the policeman and the policeman!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u67	Let Mr Papachristopoulos complete his thought and then draw the conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u68	It doesn't have to be completed, it seems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u69	Let me have my opinion. I think that in this Parliament, the greatness of democracy, we can coexist in different ways. Again, I don't justify any of them. Physical violence is condemned by anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u70	Any violence. And verbal violence?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u71	We're not talking about it. However, let me have that view. Social causes huge. They are the ones that have created the huge movements of populations that promote terrorism, they are sending people to the extreme right movements or to the very left movements. An analysis that I don't call. Conrad Lawrence says it in the book "The eight eight deadly sins of our civilization". It's been a book written by a Nobelist Austrian for fifty years. I do not justify anyone, and I honestly say this to you, because this Member has never given any right. She really hasn't given any right. He's a man of mild tone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u72	What if he gives his right to be beaten?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Davakis, don't make me tell you that now you don't understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u74	Excuse me, is this a procedure? To end the speaker and whoever wants to say the opposite view, when he goes up to the Step, will say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u75	Tell your opinion. I respect the opinions that disagree...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u76	Don't answer that, Mr. Papachristopoulos, normally continue to flow your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u77	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u78	But it's a strange reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u79	Not a strange reason. Seeing the truth in the face is not a strange reason. Not at all. I see her in the face. I don't justify it, but I'm telling you that a big piece was convicted of being unemployed, being on the sidelines, not having a job, not having a fate in the sun. It's a fertile ground for this kind of injustice. It's nonsense, I'm not talking about it. That's what I said, I didn't say anything else. If you want to see anything else, look at it. I'm coming to the object. The extensions and the two-month period which take place six months and the one year which takes place three years. And in article 8 of the bill, I really see a cover for Sotheby's, Christie's, etc., where more than forty thousand stolen items - you know it all - are presented and sold normally, with the law. It is the first time that this directive gives - at least - a light to Article 8, that you have to prove where you have acquired it and so on. But this - and I will agree with the previous speakers - does not cover us. It's not just the dear Melina Mercouri. Angelos Sicilyan, the great poet, had made a great fight to return Parthenon’s sculptures, which you know were stolen seventy-five years ago. We Greeks - and the Italians and Spaniards somehow, let us not hide - have been looted. There is no other people who have been so looted. There are also some countries, I have to say, in the Middle East, who really cannot appreciate it. What happened in Palmyra, for me, is a global crime. I mean, it's about us directly. It's a burning matter. And here I will not make the Minister's attorney, but it is clear that so far it has been and will continue to be the case that you will compensate the man who has the Parthenon's sculpture. It is a little strange to hear it, but, in any case, it covers us a little, because it says that if we prove that and if we do so, it can finally claim a state and the money for the restoration and all that. What am I saying? That we have objections to the time limit. I'll agree with everyone. We are burned as Greece by the issue of sculptures and not only by sculptures, but also by many others. It's also the icons from the Byzantine era and many more. We will, of course, vote for the bill, because it is in the right direction, but I think we need to make a huge effort. I would like to remind you - and the Minister is in front of me, and he can defend himself, he does not need me - that his position was clear. I asked him in committee what exactly he said and said, namely, that before I arrived in court, I would run out of all the other means. That makes sense. I fear that that's where they took it and did it again, because I heard the Minister answer the committee himself. He never ruled out - so he told me - the judicial claim in any way. And he's right. It's another thing when you have allies in this claim of thirty-forty countries through UNESCO and another fight for yourself. I guess that's what he said. If I've misinterpreted it, it's nothing bad. And I think the previous ones and Mr Tasoulas himself - he is now missing from the Chamber - had done so. He has never given up on any claims, but he himself, I think, has said so at times other Ministers for Culture have said so. I don't want to get tired. It is a bill that, I think, needs to unite us and I find no reason to confront this. We'll vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. We arrive at the last speaker from the Centro Union party - the relevant letter from the Party's parliamentary group - Mrs Megalo-Economist Theodora. The Minister will then be asked if he wants to take the floor. Otherwise we shall start with the speakers, who are Mr Ioannis Karayannis and Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, the first two, and I suggest that we take this as an alternative to the parliamentary representatives. You have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an important bill in plenary, which concerns a particular cultural issue, and it is nothing more than a return to cultural goods which have been illegally removed from the territory of a Member State. It is essentially a harmonisation and adaptation of Greek legislation to provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. Before going into the intestines of the bill and seeing it in a thorough overview, I would like to address briefly the issues that all the parliamentary parties have raised in the Committee on Morphic Affairs and it is no other than the Parthenon Marbles and the issue of our plundering and the existence of cultural treasures during the German occupation and other periods of conquerors who have passed our country, of course. We must not overlook that Greek culture is the cornerstone of the European cultural structure. This cultural peculiarity of Greek culture must not be bent on the altar of our national economic crisis. In other words, as a country with European orientation and strategy and having the lion's share of cultural goods, we must push Europe to show a different viewpoint and sensitivity on cultural issues, because of our national cultural specificity. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means opening up the conditions for a fruitful and constructive European debate with a legislative framework so that there is no limitation on the issue of both Parthenon marbles and our cultural treasures that have been illegally safeguarded during World War II. We all know that our monuments, our cultural treasures, as factors for our civilization, are a source of prestige for our country and a basic prerogative for handling our national affairs. Our cultural heritage remains a teacher, a driver, our internal strength, our conscientiousness and pride, as the late Melina Mercouri had said. Ladies and gentlemen, now - after our very important remarks on those issues which come to mind by each Greek and every Greek woman - in Directive 60/2014, we can see that this is a directive which clearly contains significant improvements compared to Directive 93/2007, which has been inactive and ineffective. Proof of the previous one is that in the twenty-fifth years of the present period only fifteen actions were brought for the repayment of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of a Member State, of which only seven were accepted, i.e. a percentage of the order of 50%. This new Directive 60/2014, which we are called upon to adapt to Greek legislation, clearly brings improvements compared to Directive 93/2007 in many articles of this draft law. However, it does not solve a large category of cultural goods which our country finds itself dealing with cases of scope before 1993. As we have pointed out, the new directive raises matters of limitation, in a clearly improved way. In no case, however, does it make claims unreserved, as the Parthenon marbles and hundreds of other cases of national and cultural specificity for our country should be. One cannot ignore the fact that this bill creates a more modern protection environment, more flexible, in line with European standards. And first proof is this article 1 of this bill, in which the concept of national treasure is now defined by each Member State and not by the common European lists. What does that mean, practically? That as far as cultural goods are concerned, our country defines as national treasures and has been illegally removed from our territory, we have a right to claim and return them. In addition, a positive assessment of Article 2 of the bill can be made. Article 2 broadly covers the concept of illegally removed goods, as well as other conceptual clarifications and misunderstandings on the concepts of this draft law. No reference, however, to a conceptual explanation of the concept of ‘delegation of the holder or lawyer’. There's no explanation. With regard to Article 4, important and important the competent central authority of the Greek State for the implementation of this Law, which will be the Department of Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods of the Management of National Archives of Monuments, Documentation and Protection of Goods of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the competence of the competent central authority is considered to be more satisfactory and effective than the previous directive. Article 5 introduces all matters of judicial protection in an effective and extended manner. Thus, the Member State may request both by way of an action and by means of insurance measures the return of the cultural asset unlawfully removed from its territory against the holder or legal person. As far as the action is concerned, all the conditions of admissibility are fully explained, the only pre-trial court is designated, while the provisions of our national law and in particular the Code of Civil Procedure are applied to insurance. An exceptional precedent for effective protection of this Directive may constitute Article 6 of this Legislative Decree and is the most important provision of this draft law, as it introduces areas for the protection of cultural goods through the exchange of information by Member States on the return of cultural goods. Article 6 in particular encourages and strengthens the cooperation of Member States through the use of the Internal Market Information System Unit established by the European Union Regulation No 1024/2012 on the exchange of information between national administrative authorities. With regard to Article 9 of this bill, we consider it right that the ownership of the cultural good after its return should be governed by the law of the applicant Member State and that the conditions for compensation to the public and any good-faithed legal person are properly explained. And since now, ladies and gentlemen, we have analysed as the Central Association the most positive aspects of the directive, not forgetting the fact that this draft law is a harmonisation of a Community directive, we would also like to express our reservations on specific articles of this draft law, and in particular on Articles 3, 7 and 8. In particular, Article 3 refers to the scope of this draft law, but the conceptual wording of this Article cannot be concluded with certainty that they fall within the scope of this draft law and cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of Greece before 1 January 1993. In more detail, Article 3 of this Law provides that the provisions of this Law apply to cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of Greece after 1 January 1993, as well as to requests for the return of cultural goods which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of Member States before 1 January 1993. Are cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of the Member States and, in particular, from the territory of Greece before 1 January 1993, or does this Article imply requests to return cultural goods which have already been made and which cannot be made at present or in future for cultural goods that have been obtained illegally before 1 January 1993? In the dialogue between the Minister responsible and the rapporteurs of SYRIZA - ANEL, they did not give any convincing answer to these questions, resulting in a number of cultural treasures which have been illegally removed from our territory, to be doubtful whether they are covered by this bill. With regard to Article 7, the Central Association is positively seeing certain extensions of time compared to the previous directive, such as an increase in time for the initiation of a return procedure and I am referring to the initiation of a return procedure, which extends from one year to three years from the date the central authority has been aware of the place where the cultural good and the identity of the lawmaker or his holder has been. On the other hand, however, we believe that the classification of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State, in simple terms, whether they form part of a public collection, or whether they belong to lists of ecclesiastical or other religious institutions in relation to the framework of limitations, is set relatively roughly, and there is no mention of cases which should be unregulated. And, of course, our mind goes to the Parthenon's marbles. It is also questionable whether the provision of Article 7(3), which stipulates that return proceedings are not admissible if the removal of the cultural good from the territory of a Member State to which the action is addressed, is no longer unlawful at the time when the action is brought. The provision is linked to the problems encountered in returning archaeological objects from illegal excavations, due to the difficulty in proving the origin of the goods or the date of the illegal exit. I am referring, for example, to Bulgaria and Italy. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Finally, with regard to Article 8, we would like to know more fully about the question of due diligence of the legislator, in order to fully understand the spirit of the law in this article. We think it should be clearer and more eloquent in order to clarify in greater detail the issue of fair compensation for the lawmaker. If, like, someone's stolen, do we have to pay him? After all, let us not forget that Greek culture counts thousands of years before Christ, and European culture does not even have a time-consuming coincidence with Greek culture. Thus, perhaps for the other Member States the date of 1993 and the limitation of the seventy-five years will be considered satisfactory. For our country, however, for any cultural treasure that has been exported, there is no limitation, no matter how many centuries or ages pass. We are therefore voting in principle. We are voting against Articles 3, 7 and 8. We're voting for the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr Karayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u83	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, the Members must take the lead. We're not many.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u85	Mr Baltas, you spoke earlier, while Mr Kaklamanis was chairing, and he has not told me. That is why Mr Kaklamanis had arranged for Mr Karayannis to speak first, Mr Charakopoulos and then the Minister. If you want, we overthrow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u86	I'd like to speak now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u87	Mr Baltas therefore has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, if you'll excuse me very much, but must the Minister not listen first to the fellow Members we want to talk to? Always the same program.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u89	Let him clarify some of the things that the rapporteurs have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u90	I said earlier that Mr Kaklamanis who was previously in the Chair said that this is the order. However, since the Minister is asking for the floor, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he has it. The application of the Rules of Procedure of the House requires, when the Minister requests the floor, to have him. Before you begin your speech, Minister, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th High School of St. Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Balta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that I do not exhaust the eighteen minutes, because, in my view, this bill is very simple. If one excludes issues relating to culture that are directly related to the bill, it could take a very short time. To explain this'short', to say the clear: this is a European directive and on the content of the European directive, the national parliaments cannot take a decision. The debate on the substance of the contents has taken place in the European Parliament. So there is no point in changing everything here, because then it will no longer be a European directive. Some clarification is needed because, as I see it, some things have not been understood, such as, for example, the relationship between the directive and national law and that, in relation to the dates mentioned and other relevant. It is clear that the European directive does not in any way dismiss national laws in relation to cultural goods and their return. In other words, the 1993 date does not deny Greece's claim not only to the Parthenon sculptures - which is 1801, if I am not mistaken, the destruction of the monument - but also anything before and after that. It also does not dismiss claims by other Member States to other Member States - possibly Greece, if something that belonged to another Member State - and was illegally introduced into Greece and has to be returned by Greece. The date of 1993 is because, if the word is allowed, the European Union is aware that along with the freedom of movement of persons and goods recommended by the common market and its development, cultural goods were moved, the origin of which was on the pretext of illegality. They were archipelago products which, together with other goods, may have been washed out - if the word is allowed - moved freely in Europe. That is what the European Union wanted to stop then, and that is why it set the opening date for these returns in 1993. So to argue here that for goods stolen, they left the country by alpha or beta, either because of nazi occupation or in any other way before 1993, we do not have the right to claim because of the directive, it is absolutely wrong. An example of this is that the Ministry of Culture, having a service, which is very systematically using European services and all the modern means of information technology, claims and succeeds in returning to Greece cultural goods that have left here long before 1993. So in this sense the debate that 1993 is binding, I do not think it stands in terms of European and Greek law. The second point, which I would like to make out, is what he says about compensation - has been criticised - by the good-faithed lawmaker. You know if he's an honest, rich, collector of objects, he can go to a auction and absolutely good faith to buy something he wants. It is not compulsory that the auctioneer is a crook. However, the claim of a country like this may at some point find that what someone has bought in good faith from a auction and possibly without the responsibility of the auctioning house has started from an archaocaust procedure. If that is the case, then the course of this transition from the original archaic to the good-faithed county can insult the Greek state, for example, and ask for the good back. But then, in a sense, the well-founded lawmaker needs some compensation, because he bought it in good faith from a house that also bought it in good faith. We don't know where that succession arrives. It is, however, a matter - and the directive says - of the lawmaker to prove that he took it legally and not to prove the Greek state in this case that he took it illegally. And that's an integration. From there on, this directive has the footprint of Greek efforts in relation to the improvement of the previous one. So the limitation deadlines and so on. As other features of the directive are raised, the efforts of the Greek Government are being made. This shows that the Greek Government - not only the SYRIZA Government and the oldest ones, I mean - actually demands effective, cultural goods. The Ministry's services, which deal with this, have the know-how. With the directive, all electronic means relating to this type of procedure are being discussed. These procedures are related - you've seen movies like "Indiana Jones" etc. - and through procedures related to the police, Interpol, archbishops, how they find him, how they do it, how it turns out that something is legal or illegally possessed and in what phase. It is an extremely complex process in which Greece is taking the lead. With this data, I think the debate would normally end here. It's very simple. It is an improvement of a previous directive, with the assistance of Greece. It's not the perfect directive. It can be further improved, with additional efforts, after further clarification of the phenomenon of archaocapilia and washing through archaocapilia and all kinds of illegality. The debate should, therefore, have ended here. However, the debate does not end, because we are dealing with issues relating to our own sensitivity in general in relation to cultural heritage and, obviously, the issue of the Acropolis. Mr Papachristopoulos made it very clear earlier. Let me repeat it officially here. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, which started a debate on the Parthenon sculptures from a question, I never said that we were stopping or dismissing the legal and judicial path of claiming sculptors. Not at all. What I tried to say is two things: The first is that a court, no matter how strong one's arguments are - and are recognized by a lot of people as very powerful - there is always the possibility of losing the trial. And this possibility, of losing such a trial, however small it may be, is not something that any Greek government can easily take on. That was the conversation about the trial and the odds - the unpowerful if you want - to lose the trial. I would point out, as I have a little more time, that it is still unclear which court will decide on such an appeal, whether it will be the International Court of Justice in The Hague, whether it will be the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And it is still unclear as to the pros and the opposition of going to one court or another, not vague legally. In addition, public opinion is increasingly in favour of the return of sculptures. And it turns increasingly on the facts of the destruction of Syria's cultural goods. The Palmyra's explosion and destruction, I imagine, left to all of us, regardless of political views, something very heavy as a feeling. We saw it on TV too. This expansion was linked to our historical conscience and to the destruction, in so far as it was done, by Elgin, of the integrity of the Parthenon. This connection, I believe, was not only made by the Greeks. It's a lot wider. Therefore, in this sense, the destruction of monuments of cultural heritage, which is a disaster of memory of entire cultures, has started to appear more widely as a heavy thing. In this sense, public opinion is increasingly in favour of Greek claim in relation to sculptures. However, Timing, I appeal to him in court, the choice of when and if I appeal to the court, the possibility, possibly, of political ideological pressure at the British Museum for the return of sculptors and how it depends on when we go to court, are delicate issues that cannot be decided because at some point, for alpha or beta, we think the right time has come. I would also like to clarify something here in relation to public opinion. Public opinion in Great Britain is more and more inclined to force the British Museum to return the sculptures. The British Museum seems to be in defense because it distributes brochures to visitors about why the sculptures should stay here. It's a defensive move that shows that the pressure is increasing. The issue for a Ministry of Culture is to coordinate these pressures, to find closer contact - which is already in close contact - with all the committees in favour of returning sculptures made worldwide and, at the same time, to strengthen its presence in all the international fora that are being made and developing issues relating to culture, memory, integrity of cultural monuments, which is the main argument at the moment. It's not marble, it's not sculptures. Well, the term "engineering", the whole world says it. I said it myself at the edge of the speech. I agree that it is wrong, that it is politically inappropriate to call it 'elgineness'. I fully agree and thank those who corrected it to me at that time. But it's not the gentleman. So they're neither marble nor individual sculptures. They are elements of the integrity of a monument that was then destroyed by Elgin in similar ways - despite the differences in seasons - that are currently destroying integrities of monuments in Syria and elsewhere. This whole debate should therefore be intensified in international fora. The main international forum is UNESCO, where Greece has an ever stronger presence, which is a good thing. Involved in the Executive Committee, it is chaired by two relevant committees, its presence is intensified. Its presence has already been - as I said before - and in relation to the improvement of the directive. And if we attach this to our self-awareness in which we live, what monuments we have happened to have in this country, how we must protect them on the one hand, but also make them socially, feel them, understand them, feel the breeze of the city, if you want, in which it walks or other places - and about all of Greece, there are such things that exist and work and have to work much longer in everyday life and in relation to modern culture - then the pressure on the return of sculptures will grow even more and we will have to choose an appropriate time for when - if you want - we will take the decisive step towards the British Museum. And I shall end with a phrase, which may also not be very clear. The British Museum has a relative autonomy towards the British Government. The British Government says: 'I know nothing, let the Museum take care of it.' As we know from the story of the marble elite - as they used to call it before - Elgin took it and took it to England and wanted to sell it to the British Museum at a great price. The museum refused this price and was forced to sell it at a much lower price. And immediately the British Government, because it knew it was a theft product, took its tail out of the door saying: 'British Museum has you'. That's where we're subjected. The British Museum is - let's say - the holder and lawfully responsible for the return of the sculptors. So, in this sense, we must also bear in mind the pressure we are exerting and how we organise - if you like - the battle to return sculptures worldwide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u93	Excuse me, to say something so I don't abuse time. The ministerial amendment we have tabled relates to the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture in particular with regard to projects of the NSRF which, with the legislation currently in existence, could be developed as monument restorations, etc., without the Ministry of Culture being formally consulted and responsible. The amendment restores this responsibility and the legislative improvement we have made, commits the Minister. In order not to do so indefinitely - a ministerial decision needs to be taken indefinitely - it lays down an exclusive deadline of fifteen days so that this commitment by the Ministry is made and that the projects will not be delayed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on the principle of the bill by historical obligation. The question of the return of the Parthenon sculptures to Greece is actually on track for the past fifty-five years. Those who remember the film "Fedra", you will remember the scene with Melina at the British Museum and you will remember that since then, long before dealing with active politics, Melina raised the question of the return of the Parthenon sculptures to Greece. For this purpose, beyond the same, many people have fought from the position of the Minister of Culture. But above all, as a Parliament of the Greeks, we must honour today all the members of the committees set up in various countries of the world - above all in the United Kingdom - for the return of the marbles. An impressively large number of intellectuals, scientists, artists, civil society activists have been enlisted in this case for decades. The British committee for the return of the marbles managed to form a group of members of the British Parliament who are loyal followers of the need to restore the integrity of the monument. This issue has been raised on several occasions in all international steps. I too during my term of office in the Ministry of Culture many years ago, but also many of my successors or predecessors, raised this issue in UNESCO on several occasions in the European Union. From the Step forward, and from the United Nations General Assembly, at its special session, we have raised this issue since 2001. We've made a series of bilateral discreet contacts with the UK governments. We have negotiated and spoken with every political version of His Majesty's government. We have spoken with conservative governments, with labour governments and we know very well what the perception is. I have had the opportunity, on several occasions, to negotiate with the directors of the British Museum, whose institutional autonomy the British Government is supposed to recognise and highlight. I, too, have repeatedly negotiated with the director and the trustes, the guardians, the museum, and have explained to them that the request for the return of the marbles, the sculptures of the Parthenon, is not about a request to return any cultural good, but about the sculpture of a real monument, which is a symbol of the global cultural heritage, emblem and logo of UNESCO. And we're not talking about a mobile cultural asset that needs to be returned, but a mutilated monument that screams. And we do not act in the name of the Greek cultural heritage or in the name of a Greek cultural chauvinism or in the name of Greek state sovereignty, but in the name of the global cultural heritage and the monument itself that claims the restoration, even of its visual integrity. Because, of course, we don't ask for the decoration to reposition it. We ask for the decoration because now, having the huge argument of the existence of the Acropolis Museum, we can have the sculpted decoration in direct visual contact with the rock and with the property of the Parthenon. In any conception of cosmopolitanism that says that in the British Museum without ticket too many people in the world have access to the sculptures, we respond by saying that access to the sculptures of the Parthenon must be made in place and in time, within the cultural and historical context of the monument. And we can make a distinction between what is called 'cosmology' and what is called 'colonialism', what is called 'colonialism' or what is called 'cultural orientalism', that is to say, the concept that we here belong to an East and ultimately through the stereotypes of the West, the Greek cultural heritage is perceived in Europe, not as an element of our own or as an element of the world heritage, but as an element of a European identity that is shaped in beams. We fought to build the Acropolis Museum. We have fought to an extent that is perhaps inconceivable for any private or public investment in our country. It is enough to recall from this Chamber that the relevant administrative acts have escaped the annulment of the Council of State with one vote in the High Court's plenary session. When we are given the opportunity to record and describe the struggle for the building of the Acropolis Museum, you will see a national adventure in relation to how we should handle our cultural heritage, but also how we should handle what is called public and social infrastructure. I don't want us to remember the bad aspects of this adventure. It is enough that there is the museum, that it was inaugurated, that it works and that now is a very great argument for restoring the integrity of sculptors. Only 11 years have passed since the museum opened and operated. And the new situation should not be transformed after the museum's operation into a custom, in a routine. We have therefore exerted all possible diplomatic pressure. We have exploited all the legal arguments in all the diplomatic fora available. We have dealt with this issue bilaterally and multilaterally in every possible context: both within the European Union and within the framework of UNESCO and within the framework of the United Nations. As Minister of Foreign Affairs and Vice-President of the Government until January 2015, I agreed and encouraged the then Minister of Culture, Mr. Tasouula, to prepare the possibility of a judicial proclamation and, in any case, to request scientific assistance from the United Kingdom on this matter. Because from one point to the next, when the British Government declares you unjustified and refers to the British Museum and the British Museum hides behind its guardians, including the United Kingdom Prime Minister, you realize that there is no real framework for consultation. My proposal to go beyond the legal debate on the sculpture regime, to deal with the cultural dimension, to say that, in line with the two museums, let us work together as independent entities and let us have a permanent, permanent lending of sculptures from the British Museum to the Acropolis Museum in exchange for organising parallel periodic exhibitions with important Greek cultural goods in the British Museum, from the moment when this proposal was formulated, documented and finally accepted, I conclude that there is not much room for political and diplomatic management and promotion of this issue, no matter how many directives are issued in the context of the European legal order, no matter how many recommendations are made at UNESCO level. We must not forget that, from a point on, legal and political arguments are involved in the light of history and global cultural sensitivity. And there is a forum which we must not ignore, which is the European Court of Human Rights, which we have not exploited, in which, for reasons of history, which I am not going to mention today, there is a tradition of Greek-British, which is not about the sculpture issue, but about very hard issues in the Eastern Mediterranean, very difficult issues of sovereignty and human rights, because I am referring to the Cyprus issue of course. In order for this forum to be open, internal legal proceedings need to be exhausted in the United Kingdom legal order. So we shouldn't rule out anything. And above all we must remember the history of this issue, the anxiety and the struggle, the people who have worked, the scientists who have documented our views. We have developed these views on the relevant parliamentary committee of the British Parliament. We have the British public at our side in numerous surveys of British public opinion. We have raised very important representatives of the British media. And in the wider circle of Commonwealth, which belong to countries such as Australia, Canada, New Zealand, we have infrastructure, we have mature people, ready to accept our views and parliamentary support at the level of parliamentary diplomacy, which is impressive, perhaps unique. Because all these months we have been living an uninterrupted policy, an uninterrupted historical, an uninterrupted one in relation to the national strategy, and we have paid this very much to the most critical area of economic policy, development, the field of recession and primary deficits, unfortunately, because we have taken a lot of steps back on the point we were in a year ago, it is very important that we do not repeat the same mistakes, not repeat the same mistakes, in an area in which, if anything, we can easily have a broad consensus and a shared understanding. Because somewhere the nation must unite, somewhere society must consent, somewhere we must overcome the situation, which is very often unfair to us all, because we do not place it in its historical context, especially in its perspective, because we are in a position to stay in the past and cannot communicate with the future. I would therefore like this to have been said in the plenary to have been recorded in the minutes of the Greek Parliament, which is the body of the history of the nation and I ask the government, the Minister responsible, to study the data, not to ignore what has been done before them, not to think that history begins with the January elections or much more with the September elections. History, I have said it many times, is ultimately above the democratic juncture, it is not above democracy as a start, but it is above the fluctuations in the political democratic context. That is why it is very important, with a historical conscience and, if you like, poetry, which is the only one which is justified, to propose once again the arguments we must put forward in the name of the monument, not in the name of one of our own ideas. And only by speaking in the name of the monument can we have results in favour of global cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Venizelo. I would ask Mr Karayannis to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the winter of 2009, a sacrificial spiral coil operating in Ioannina prefecture was looted by six old churches and isotope monasteries in Zagori. The greatest blow was the Temple of the Theotokos Sleep at Kokouli Zagori, which dates back to 1630, from which sixty-four old icons, two Gospels, exterior and sacred utensils were removed. It was the second great theft following the looting that had taken place in 2007 at the Theotokou Monastery in Makrino Zagori, from which thirty-seven valuable images were stolen and the wooden sculptured door of the "Very Gate" was stolen in the same year the entire icon of the historical Kipina Monastery in Tzoumerka. In the middle of 2010 many of the stolen images were found in a London, Amsterdam and Dusseldorf gallery. The tracking took place at the initiative of the Region of Epirus, which held photos of the stolen images and relics on its website with the support of the 8th Ept. of Byzantine Antiquities. The above incident - and unfortunately much more is happening in our country - is directly linked to the illegal trade in works of art, a trade of 'cultural scourge', a trade 'crime against humanity', as was rightly described in EXPO 2015 in Milan by the former Minister of Culture Mr. Nikos Xydakis. The European Union's awareness and interest in the protection of cultural goods against illicit trafficking is manifested in practice by the revised Directive 60/2014 on the return of cultural goods stolen and illegally removed from the territory of a Member State. This directive is in line with the principle of the abolition of the internal borders of the Member States of the European Union and reconciles the fundamental principle of the free movement of goods, with the need for effective protection of cultural goods. By incorporating this directive into national law, the object of this draft law, is to coordinate Member States in the fight against the existence of cultural goods and their illegal movement. It is essential that the provision of the paragraph of the cases is introduced, but in cases after 1993. This bill complements the arsenal of protecting the physical and intangible cultural heritage of our country, which includes the relevant UNESCO conventions, the Unidroit Convention of 1995, the European Conventions for the Protection of Architecture, the transnational conventions and the educational programmes, seeking lost archaeological information and white calendar pages. Historically, one of the most important UNESCO contracts signed by Greece in 1980 was the 1970 Convention on preventing the illegal importation and export of cultural property. There for the first time in 1984 Melina Mercouri raised the question of the return of the Parthenon marbles, which still remains current and alive. Actions under the '95 Unidroit Convention concerning stolen and illegally exported cultural goods and the 1954 Hague Conventions, 1971 and 2003 of UNESCO are very important. The latter concerns the protection of our intangible cultural heritage. It is also worth mentioning the participation in UNESCO's Unite for Her Drake campaign focusing on protecting the global cultural heritage against terrorist acts, as is currently happening in Syria, Libya, Yemen and Mali. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the return of our stolen cultural goods and in general the protection of our cultural treasures should continue to be a major issue in our international relations and cultural diplomacy. This requires Article 24 of the Constitution, Laws 3028/2002 and 3658/2008, as well as international conventions. In order to tackle, however, illegal trade in works of art - although there are instruments, such as the 2015 UNESCO resolution - cooperation with the UN, UNESCO and the International Council of Museums should be strengthened to strengthen prevention and reduce disasters against our cultural heritage. Finally, I would like to mention that today's recommendation was also the subject of my speech at the 133rd Plenary Session of the Interparliamentary Union held in Geneva from 17 to 21 October 2005, where I participated as a member until before the ITU Committee of the Greek Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Harakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by condemning the manly attack, the unnecessarily attack taken by my fellow Member of the New Democracy Vassilis Economou last night in a place of focus by hoodiers, helmets in Exarcheia, who are attempting to make this area in the centre of the capital unbaed space for the representatives of the Greek people, the authorities of the state, the bodies of public order. I believe that in a favoured state the rule of law must ensure public order, the sense of security for citizens, the right to freedom of movement. The only abat that we recognize in our country is the one of Mount Athos, because of the long tradition that exists. I therefore believe that the Greek Parliament, Mr President, will have to condemn this incident by unanimity without asterisks and footnotes, which ultimately give a legal basis for acts of violence. No form of violence can be tolerated. I'm coming to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, archipelago is a real scourge for the modern world. Especially for areas that have been destroyed by law and order, this phenomenon has taken uncontrolled proportions, such as what is happening in the Middle East, Syria and Iraq. Especially for the Islamic State, the theft and sale of ancient objects is an important source of enrichment for the jihadists, with the brokering of course some may be above suspicion of well-being, but also many willing buyers of the developed world. As you know, Greece and the Greek culture have become a victim of the archaocapilia and the theft of valuable objects of the ancient and lasting civilization. Immediately it is understood that we do not speak here in terms of money, however high it is. We are talking about spiritual values and values of historical identity. The Minister of Culture, Mr Baltas, argued to the committee that this bill is simple because it is the harmonisation of a European directive with Greek legislation and that this development serves the Greek case because we will claim more effectively the stolen from the different "Elgin". Here, however, I have a question: This government, at the initiative of the successor of Mr Baltas at the Ministry of Education, Mr. Friend, has appointed a committee which, among other things, intends to restore Greek education from the "Paparigopoulos" account, i.e. that the young Greeks do not have a long history and follow-up in time, are arbitrary creations of the state formed under the influence of Enlightenment after the Greek revolution. After all, they are supported by Mr. Tsipras' favorite historian, Mr. Antonis Liakos, President of this committee. But, if so, what do we claim to be the stolen ancient cartoons, statues, sacred symbols or Byzantine icons, such as those from the occupied Cyprus take the road to private collections of "friendly"? As random residents of this particular area, which some other foreigners once created to us, as tenants of this particular land? Obviously here, ladies and gentlemen, there is a huge contradiction, in which there should be a clear answer. The truth, of course, is that the answer has been given many years ago by General Makrigiannis to his "Memorandum" and everything else we say is most. He writes the general about two ancient statues found by his soldiers and intended to sell them to Europeans for a thousand talents: "I took the soldiers, I spoke to them. These, and ten thousand heed to give you, not to be accepted to go out of the country. That's why we fought!" I would also point out to Mr Baltas - who left from what I see - although he understood it, I imagine, from the noise that has been caused, that the terminology that we are using for things must not undermine the case that we claim. The refusal of the Pontic Genocide by the Minister of Education, Mr. Phile, who describes it as "national cleansing", undermines the demand for its international recognition. Similarly, the Parthenon marbles are not "Elgineia". No archaic thieves, let it be a British Lord, do not distinguish the stolen ones, not even after death. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also address an issue which I consider to be particularly important and relates to the issue we are discussing. Recently, the Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, visiting officially Bulgaria, asked for the return to the sacred metropolitans and the monasteries of northern Greece of the hundreds of Byzantine relics stolen from the Bulgarian army during World War I from monasteries and churches of Macedonia, such as Panagia Isofolissas and Timios Prodromos in Serres. All these relics, about eight hundred objects, Byzantine icons, manuscripts and church functional utensils, constitute an invaluable treasure for Greece and Orthodoxy. Some of these relics have been found in third countries, such as in Germany the 13th-century Ephraim monk, which Greece managed to repatriate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Note that under the Treaty of Neyyy, with which Bulgaria conspired after World War I with the forces of Adad, the looted objects have been officially recorded. In addition, this treaty outweighs any other legal act, so there is no question of questioning it. Unfortunately, however, the Bulgarian side has dealt with this right of the Patriarch in an unacceptable manner. Prime Minister Borisov said that under no circumstances should Bulgaria grant them, and refused to meet the Predestinant of Orthodoxy. Mr President, we hope that the harmonisation of all the Member States with the stricter rules laid down by the European Union will also make the leaders of the neighbouring friendly country more reasonable to rethink their attitude, far from useless and inappropriate fanaticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. At this point we will suspend the debate on the bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Nikita Kaklamani, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis and Mr Nikolaos Friends. The Report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 9-12-2015, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Nikita Kaklamani's absence of immunity should not be waived. Furthermore, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 9-12-2015, according to which members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Katsaniotis’ immunity. Furthermore, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report on 9-12-2015, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Friend's immunity should not be lifted. Under Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter into the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity or whether the prosecution, prosecution or indictment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the public prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given on request to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and roll-call vote. The vote, in which each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, will be recorded in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda has been concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Kaklamani. The second case concerns Mr Katsaniotis. The third case concerns Mr Philly. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there any colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Is there a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. Each colleague will vote next to the name of the colleague for whom immunity is sought. The person voting in favour of the waiver of immunity shall note his preference next to the Member's name and to the column 'NAI', i.e. 'NAI' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes his preference next to the Member's name and to the 'NOV' column. The person who votes for the 'POULS' takes note of his preference in the corresponding column of the ballot. The vote will give each of its colleagues its name, its constituency and the parliamentary group to which it belongs. The voters will be Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy. The voters would sign the ballot and announce that the MP voted. After the end of the vote, there will be a counting of the votes, by the Members I mentioned earlier, as will be the votes, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of this sitting. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u102	The House agreed. I would like to inform you that letters have been sent to the Bureau in fax (fax) Members, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give notice of their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, on the basis of the procedure you are asking for the floor, which I will give you, to say what you want. Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, I wanted to inform my fellow Members because I am being asked to waive my immunity. I want my immunity to be lifted. This is not about my parliamentary capacity, and that is why I want it to be clear. So I would ask colleagues to help me in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u106	Parliamentarians Marios Katsis from SYRIZA and Emmanuel Konsolas from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u107	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed, we are going back to the debate on the bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Mr. Hajisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. It is not enough that this draft law deprives Greece's claims regarding the cultural heritage that has been stolen, but now we see that this vote on the lifting of immunity takes place in the middle of the day, so that the MPs can go home sooner. They have to go to committees that run on much more important issues. This bill is now supposed to help restore the archaeological treasures, cultural, religious, etc. Impressive thoughts are, impulses. Problems are not solved with optimistic thoughts and encouragements. It's like making a law a prayer, like saying that, with a positive thought and a request, we can bring back what we were stolen. No obligation has any ones who stole. In fact, in some cases they are compensated. Of course, I heard from the Minister the parable of the good rich man who he mentioned before. Even the good rich man who took these relics doesn't make any difference if he voluntarily did it, come and say, "I give it back, but do I want compensation" in relation to him who actually owns some relics? On the pretext that they are European directives, first of all, not all Europeans have the same interests. Others have created culture, others have stolen culture. Those who stole and destroyed mainly come now and give instructions. In other cases, the European directives have been written in the oldest of our footwear. Let me remind you of the European directive on overtaxation, the import of cars and all that. There the state considered that we could not respect it. We are more concerned about overtaxing, not about complying with the directive and reducing taxation. This is where we are going to implement any directive that comes. Recasting is the extension to three years for the start of work, which is a little more than once again: on the thirty-year limitation and on the seventy-five in special cases. And these are very few, in the case of Greece at least. For new-born states it may be too long, that is to say to be covered with it here, but in Greece I think it would not be enough for three hundred years for the limitation, perhaps even more. These time references to custody, if they are not ridiculous, are suspicious, not to say photographic, for collecting, European and global lobbys, who possess such treasures. As far as the 1993 milestone is concerned, I have heard the Minister's explanation that it is not a brake. Let us accept that this is the reasoning. Can you guarantee, however, that not one case will happen to anyone benefit from this date? Because, even if it is about Greece having great treasures stolen, it can also be very important. Reference was also made to the disasters of the "Islamic State" in monuments. I personally believe that it has little to do with the beliefs and culture of those who do these disasters. Weaponism is their fountain. There are complaints from the independent authorities and observers that first the monuments are looting and then they are destroying, they are blowing their remains, so that the theft cannot actually be seen, as was, of course, earlier with the Alexandra Library and with the fire that covered the pillaging, a looting that was enough to regenerate Europe ten times. Let us now mention the question of how the treasures of Greece were stolen, whether they would be "elgine" or "marble". Nor is it 'elderly' nor'marble'. We know that very well. The British, of course, ahead of their poor vocabulary, artificially pass their propaganda on these topics. We would do well not to follow them and try to impose this on all the international organisations involved in this matter. I will tell you that one final example which shows that Greece is more generally unfair than this kind of European directives because it has lost much in relation to other European countries. But there's more to it. There are chalking issues and the theft of an entire geographical area and thousands of years of history. Of course, I am referring to the declaration by the state of Skopje on the name of our Macedonia and history. We have already said that, of course, this is mainly based on bulgarian pervertism. So what does this have to do with this bill? There are complaints and reports about a new class of archaic café, Minister. Some circles that fall under and are friendly to the "Uranian Arc", find ancient Greek treasures on Greek land, take them to Skopje, bury them in the land of Skopje and after a decade - or a little more - they organize excavations - figurines to prove the Greekity of these regions. Of course, they do not find any impediments to Greek politics in general. I would simply like to see the difference in the claims made by the other states, which do not have either the cultural heritage or the archaeological heritage that we had, but has been stolen. I do not know whether we will wait even on these issues which are national, for us to have a European directive, as was the case with what we expected them to remember after 1993, namely that treasures have been stolen and that they are being trafficked illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin - and, please, to follow Mr Baltas - from the amendment which he has put forward in connection with the completion of the n. Regulation (EC) No 3028/2002. First of all, the mood is positive. But I wanted to make a point, and perhaps you should, Mr Minister, look at it in law. You say in it that within 15 days the Ministry will have to decide, at the same time taking the opinion of the archaeological board. I don't know if that's possible. I note, however, that in the same Article 10, which adds paragraph 4 to the previous paragraph, paragraph 2 relating to Latin legislation, a three-month period is given for the Council to meet and to decide on a request. In fact, it's not just that, but it says something else. It says that in the event of a period of three months, the view of the Ministry of Culture is positive. You know the law. So this remark has to do with a second point. We cannot, in terms of archaeological interest, be presumed to be in agreement with the Ministry, because we have an infringement of Article 24 of the Constitution. In other words, within the deadlines the decisions must be adopted and the archaeological board must be consulted beforehand so that they can be implemented. So I think, Minister, and I ask you as a matter, that the deadline should be extended for an additional reason. I listened carefully to your speech. You referred to an exclusive deadline. But, as you are saying in your amendment, we are not talking about an exclusive deadline. We say, as you complete it: "The above decision within 15 days of the submission of the application to the relevant departments of the Ministry...". There isn't. I would like to say something else and to conclude, because I do not want to tire the Chamber at this point. Any act adopted after the deadline shall in all cases be lawful. We will therefore consider it a strong suggestion, even toward the administration, to move faster. My experience, of course, says the archaeological board is not a fast instrument. You'll deal with it in practice. However, we as the Central Association are voting on the bill in principle and on the amendment, Mr Minister, if it is to make it easier for some money to be disbursed or to move a local economy by carrying out the projects envisaged. But I want to observe something more generally. This directive, whatever I have heard - I have listened very carefully to the ladies and gentlemen of the House and to all who have really had an interesting opinion and had a wider debate - I do not think, always expressing a personal opinion, that it is of special interest to Greece. I do not think so, because Greece comes with a cultural heritage of almost two and a half thousand years, it has, in our view, a strong arsenal of protecting cultural heritage. And I'm talking about not just n. 3028, but I refer also to the leaders of 1932, but also to the international conventions which Greece has signed within this framework. We therefore believe that this directive is directing things towards the protection of countries which are more host countries than exporting countries. Irrespective of this, however, it has its positive points, because there is a European framework now. We will consider it to be more modern than the previous one. It also tells us a few things, namely that the Greek state should also have its attention, so that if a third country is asked for assistance from Greece, it can provide it within the framework of the European acquis and European law. Legally it is not of particular value to discuss this directive further. I think we've exhausted them. I'm only going to scrutinize two, three points. Reading Article 5, which speaks of judicial protection, confirms my view, because it makes the Greek court competent and refers to the provisions of the Greek Code of Civil Procedure. What does that mean? It means that when a third country - member is requested, Greek justice will move. Greek justice cannot move on the basis of this directive to European third countries to claim lost, obsoletely deducted cultural goods. I don't want to get tired, and I'll be shortened. There is another issue, which has been a great deal of talk about, in Article 7 on limitation. We are not going to vote on Article 7, of course. It has a more critical point, which concerns me very much, because it speaks of limitations within three years, of limitations within seventy-five years, thirty, respectively, but does not specify any legislative texts which will be taken into account. Will the limitation of the country requested to a third country be taken into account, so that we have the so-called 'lex fori' - perhaps that cannot be taken into account and indeed cannot be taken into account, for example, the limitation of France to Greece - or vice versa, that is, the country that is the addressee of the application? Of course, regardless of the fact that the matter cannot be resolved here in this debate, I think that the matter of limitation should be dealt with in a subsequent provision, Minister, at least for the protection of the Greek cultural heritage, I would ask you to note and bring it. We must resolve this major issue, which will trouble the way, because, as has rightly been noted by the previous speakers, the compromise reached by the European Union also conceals, in the context of the movement of goods and traffic, the interests of large economic units, the interests of auctions, the interests of various other cultural museums, such as the Geti Museum, for example, known as its prehistoric history, as well as other museums of international that have been fruited with Greek treasures. So, I think here with the minister we could find a contact point. I'll go on and say one more thing. With regard to judicial protection, which is the next article, Article 8, entitled 'Contents of the judicial decision - Enforcement costs', may contain major protection, within the meaning of the prefecture of the holder, who, according to Greek law at least - he knows better - may also be bad faith. It does not mean that the prefect, who has the meaning of a cultural good, is a trustworthy prefect. In this sense, therefore, Mr Baltas, we can also guarantee the bad faith. You're gonna have to see it. And I'm not talking about the directive. I imagine you understood my spirit. I am talking about increasing the protection of cultural heritage. So I think we should all look at the issue and make it clear what it is. For the conduct of de facto actions is an instrument. So we have an escalation of protection depending on the illegitimate and trustworthy lawmaker, and we also have an escalation in the extent of the compensation the lawmaker will ask for. As far as Article 8 is concerned, therefore, and in conjunction with the fact that we have not agreed on the limitation referred to in Article 7, we shall vote negatively. We are also concerned about Article 3. The Minister has given an explanation and I've heard a lot of things about it. But Article 3 concerns us with the date of 1 January 1993. It was explained that it was the date of free movement of goods, services within the European Union. However, that is not enough, because Greece has a speciality. In fact, when I began my speech, I noticed that Greece's specificity prevents us from supporting our legal arsenal in tradition and heritage. As we all know in this Chamber, when we talk about cultural heritage, we refer to the extreme past, ancient times, Hellenistic times, Byzantines and modern Greece until today. Under the archaeological law, what is over a hundred years old is ancient and must be protected. As far as Article 3 is concerned, therefore, which does not satisfy us with the wording on internal law, we will not vote on it so that a new legislative text can be adopted for discussion in the future and in agreement with the other issues that we have raised. Let me now turn to two issues and conclude. The first point is that I have listened with great interest, and I can say with emotion, the issues that have been raised about the Parthenon sculptures. I have to say that I have not yet heard a realistic, a bold proposal for reclaiming. There may be issues of international law and external relations in the country, which are not present. However, I have not heard the realistic, bold proposal that must be made to deal with this issue. I feel that she is suffering and will continue to suffer. I also heard Mr Venizelos, who spoke on this point. But it did not convince me that in the past year there was a proposal that could satisfy, even to the least, Greece's request. To conclude, I would like to support and denounce what has been done to Mr Economou, stating our support. We do not think that these practices and behaviours should remain unanswered by this Chamber. I found the coincidence of the views of the House's factions. We are all condemning. But that's not good enough. And you know why it's not enough? Because we Members have a disadvantage, as I would say. We cannot propose legislation that will give greater protection to ourselves, to our position - and I am not talking about the faces, but about the function, to which we have a place - because we will automatically blame ourselves and our things. I think, therefore, that the oral condemnation which should be made may also have to be followed by a written condemnation from the orders of the House, because the behaviour of Mr Economou is repeated. And it is none of my business if my colleague belongs to the Congress, to the opposition if he belongs politically here or there. He's a politician and represents the nation and the parliament. So each colleague deserves the respect that we all deserve to have. I would therefore ask everyone to take up this issue later. Thank you, Mr President, for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the waiver of immunity of fellow Members. A total of 208 Members voted. For Mr Nikita Kaklamani: In favour of waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', no one voted. Against the abolition of immunity, i.e. 'OH', they voted 207 MPs. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Enter Protocol 159a. and the 159.b ballots]] For Mr Andreas Katsaniotis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 205 Members voted. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of his immunity. For my colleague, Mr. Friend: In favour of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NEI', 2 Members voted. They voted 205 MPs against the lifting of immunity. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming back to the debate on the bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, can Parliament's representatives be rotated with Members?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr Pappas has asked for the floor, as he is involved in a committee. He asked for a special exception to participate in the committee. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I will be brief, because this has already been adequately covered by both our rapporteur, Mr Gregos and our special speaker, the competitor, Mr Hadjisavvas, who spoke a moment ago. I want, on the occasion of the condemnation just now made by a parliamentary representative of another party of the attack on Mr Economou, to say two - three things. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] First and foremost, that the Golden Dawn condemns this attack, but we did not see the same sensitivity to the rest of the parties when we had the murder of the two members of the Golden Dawn in New Heraklion almost two years ago. As will the authorities, the various judges or the ministers also have the sensitivity to take legal proceedings to the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow and to ask that the attackers of Mr. Economou be accused of being criminalised? Will SYRIZA condemn the attack on Mr. Economou? To be fair, Mr. Economou suffers and reaps what he has spent so many years. Mr. Economou, as a political invasion, in whatever party he has experienced, was the one who raised up the monster of terrorism. As far as the draft law under discussion is concerned, we have seen some time ago - I was watching various symbols, MPs of SYRIZA, that is to say, of the Association, that there are too many sensitive to archaeological treasures of the Byzantine period. We have seen them being sensitive to images - I have heard Members referring to their territory alone, as if only their region were Greece, in any case - and it has made me a great impression. As the patriots' representatives have made very much of an impression - I would say - of a New Democracy, which in principle votes in favour of this bill. New Democracy voted in favour of a codified agreement that destroys the place, a Kotzam Memorandum on August 14th, in a Community directive, will it back up? Also, the New Democracy is ready to vote for the plan of a homosexual coexistence law. And the New Democracy - to say this - gives as much value to culture as Mr Tsipras gave culture on 5 October 2015, that is, a few months ago, when he did not say a single word in his programme statements. I've got thirty-eight pages here. It's Mr. Tsipras' speech. So for culture, the Left's programming statements had nothing to say! So the New Democracy is at this point the same as SYRIZA. The New Democracy has come to make a Minister of Culture with a cultural pre-service, a man who had pre-service to pizza. He became Minister of Culture. That's how important you're giving civilization. You're hypocrites about what I'm talking about at the Step. And the motto, the trifle: "false, religion, family", which you have been liking for decades, do not get caught in your mouth again. Do not fool other pure patriots - those left, anyway - at your place for vote. That's all about SYRIZA and the New Democracy. As far as the draft law is concerned, our country is obliged to vote on a legislative regime, which you say is better than it is currently in force and that this seems positive with what has been to date. You are making a very big mistake, because one of the articles in this draft law - and many have spoken about this article - says that the provisions of the law apply only to cultural goods removed from Greece after 1 January 1993. So, for the past few years, what's going to happen? Do you have anything to add, Minister? We're having a dialogue. Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u117	No, Mr. Pappa. We don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u118	The Minister's swinging his head out of his way. He wants to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u119	If he wants to say something, he'll say it later when he gets the word. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u120	Great, then, sensitivity to it. The Ellen marbles - which are badly called "elgine" and said here, mistakenly mine - have you forgotten the Parthenon's marbles? The famous election struggles of Melina Mercouri - for the election of PASOK were they, and your government is full of PASOK officials - you forgot about them? So, you remember exports, huge thefts of cultural goods and cultural goods made by the occupation forces - again for Germany, you are working - from the Italians and the Bulgarians and, above all, from the Germans, in private collections, in museums. So, what's going to happen? Are we gonna forget about it? We're not a state. Take the hammer. We're a nation with at least three thousand years of history. We're not selling our legacy for any reason. That is why we are also voting in favour of the draft law, which the New Democracy is voting for. This is one of our great differences. We are talking here about our cultural treasures and immediately our minds go to London, Great Britain. There, then, is 50% of the Parthenon sculptures. At Athens is 45%. The English have more than we do. Are we going to give them a bill? So, with this bill, you are working for the European Union, your favourite European Union, and you are once again following the Community directive. We are also opposed to Community directives. The Greeks are not scouts, so that we can hear what the banners, the Europeans, say. The Europeans are currently straying Greece, being loan sharks. He's a real enemy of the Greek. Let the Greek take it, let him know. The European Union is our misfortune! And can I tell you something? When did you claim? What government? Let's take the story from 1974 onwards. What government has truly vindicated our stolen treasures? None. I told you that your Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Greece, Mr. Tsipras said nothing, but nothing about culture. Listen, listen! The greatest good that Greece has is the Greek culture, which should have been our first industry and education and museums and exhibitions and archaeological research. So for our first industry, for what we must be proud of as a people, the Greek Prime Minister does not say a single word. We are talking about cultural goods, our heritage that is outside Greece. Do you want to talk about our legacy within Greece, Minister? Because we are talking about the sculptures of the Parthenon, I will speak to you about the course of the restoration of the monuments of the Acropolis. Since 1975, if I remember correctly, a dismantling of the sculptures in the meadows, in the various parts of the Parthenon, and not just in the sacred rock, by decision of Constantine Karamanlis. I mean the old man, the deaf. With the technology at the time it was decided that these sculptures would leave their original location and go to the museum, in this famous museum that you made of the constitutional arch, the museum - an abortion of aesthetically, I would say, however modern and nice it is inside. So the sculptures went there. We are therefore grieving to note that a great crime is currently being committed to the Parthenon. It's not just the rusty cranes that exist there. The suspicion has also been made that the subsidies you receive for the project are used as the Ministry of Culture for other purposes, which is why you are delaying the projects. I say what's going on in the Acropolis is done in order, it's ritual. It's no accident. Thermopoils, a monument to the great battle of the Hotways: From New Democracy and from PASOK and SYRIZA, we notice an abandoned monument. The Golden Dawn goes every year and honors the fighters, the triumphants of Leonidas. Salamis, trumpet Salamimanca: Abandoned. Marathon, where there should be lime fire, where there should be honorary guard: The Greek is obliged to pay a ticket to honor the marathonians in the drum. A virgin? Same. I ask, Minister: if you are so sensitive to culture, are you willing to do something important? We will be voting in favour of it and we are with you. Plan a contest to protect the monument, do something against what has been decided and planned so far. Today's technology, not 1975, allows it to be attributed to the original members of the monument at their initial location. That's where he's been for thousands of years. That must remain and this demolition of the prototypes must no longer be stopped. We will also talk about the articles. We say in principle 'no'. We say 'no' to Article 2. We say 'no' in Article 3, 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no'. In Article 6 with the exchange of information we say'residents'. In Article 7, which is very important, we say 'no', that is, 'no' in the expiry of three years, what you say and you treat cultural goods, these monuments of Greek culture, as intellectual property, as a book that we want in the seventy-five years. Oh, no. As many years as they pass, that's it, and they have to be ours again. We say 'no', in Article 7, Article 8 'no', in Article 9 on the ownership of the good after its return to the country of origin, we say 'no', 'no', in Article 10, in the repealed provisions of the Presidential Decrees and 'no', of course, at the entry into force of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Gymnasium Tripolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are moving on with Mrs Helen Aulonitou, MP of SYRIZA. Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill entitled "Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods, which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State" reminds me of that famous saying of Bismarck, which I never liked, that "policy is the art of practicable". With today's bill, what the acquis communautaire so far provides for in the national legislation to do to combat graduation when theft is cultural goods. When it is not cultural goods, then other, stronger provisions apply. The difference in rigour lies in the date of 1 January 1993, before which it took place. That is not because we want it, but because it accepts the acquis communautaire. From that day on Europe has said: 'To date, we will protect thefts of cultural goods.' So we now have to choose between taking advantage of the protection granted to us after 1 January 1993 or not to take advantage of it, so we reasonably choose to use it. We are doing what we consider right in Article 3, recognizing the right to claim their own cultural treasures illegally in our own country, even if they were removed before 1 January 1993, which gives us the moral authority to continue claiming our own cultural treasures which have been removed from our country before this arbitrary date. In this sense, therefore, Article 3 really balances this curious situation of European legislation, which could be interpreted in a variety of ways. And, as the Minister said, we continue to claim our cultural treasures, regardless of time, and we are not dismissing any of our rights. After all, we are the country where we have the most cultural treasures scattered around the globe. The limitation conditions laid down in Article 7 are also relevant in this draft law. This is where an international effort is made to end with the right to claim as soon as possible in order to make the international art market safe. The three years provided for in the new regime are better than a year for anticipating the old, but implementation requires the services of the state that really claim to work quickly and without time. The complete limitation of thirty years after the illegal removal of the cultural good from the territory of the applicant state creates a reasonable question as to how it will be proved, since I imagine that no one will take out a charger that will write "illegal ampoule" and show it after thirty years. Let's tell you the truth. The acquis communautaire, with which we are harmonizing, is trying to compromise the incompatibility. On the one hand, the rights of States and peoples in their cultural treasures and on the other hand the commercial market of art that wants clean titles of property to do its job. Thus, Article 8 provides for compensation of the lawmaker from the State requesting reimbursement of cultural good if he has purchased it well. It is, of course, good that we are slowly, but very slowly, moving from a situation of absolute immunity to a regime of greater protection of cultural goods. We went from nothing to something. Now we go from something to something more, so we can hope that our bailouts will enjoy full protection of cultural goods. In the absence of a better practical solution today, we are voting in favour of this bill which ensures that the cultural goods of our country are as protected as possible at the moment as far as European legislation is concerned. We must not, however, be reassured by voting for it. There is at the moment a growing international pressure from countries which have occupied their cultural treasures for the return of these cultural goods. China and Egypt come to mind immediately. And the importance of these countries in the international system is growing. So we must join them, so that, while applying what is envisaged in the current acquis communautaire, we will also claim to extend the time-consuming protection of all cultural objects that have been stolen in the past. This is a long course on which today's bill just takes a step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Ms. Helen Aylonitou, SYRIZA Member. Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Ironopoulou, Member of the New Democracy for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to begin by condemning and abducing the incident of the exercise of terrorist, obscene and appalling violence against our colleague, Vassilis Economou. I would like to say this because it was said almost all of the wings: the responsible Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Toskas, was in the ministerial seats. And it did not feel the need for the government, through the presence of the relevant minister, to say a word about where the investigations into those who were attacking in a manly way - hooded and hidden behind helmets - against the Member of Parliament did not feel the need to say a word of sympathy. Of course, I also have a question, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: why did the Ministry of Civil Protection take on board a team of specialists, the DELTA team, which was ad hoc to police this region? And I have to tell you that the area in the previous period was accessible, and today it is not accessible, it is an unintentional one. It is an area in which no one can access and much more cannot have access to the Members of the Greek Parliament, who represent the nation and the people. This is a first observation. I would now like to refer to the Minister of Culture, Mr Balta. First of all, thankfully, it is here, because it must be when a bill is being discussed, which is actually moving Europe - and that is why we will be voting for it - because it improves existing legislation in principle and will be implemented from now on in the case of the illicit trafficking of cultural goods. Why? For what is happening in Palmyra, for example, to crush high cultural value, is important to the archaics. It is important that the identity of the cultural asset disappears so that it can then be channelled to private collections and illegally retained. That is why this fragmentation is taking place. So there's a trade of antiquities there. So Europe is doing a very good job. We must also contribute to the directive as a Greek Parliament so that it does not happen. So we say 'yes'. However, the articles to which we referred, and in particular Article 7, are not in favour of them as a New Democracy. I would like to ask the Minister for Culture about the placement of the Parthenon sculptures: I saw that an attempt was made to bring your names up, Minister, the previous six-seven days ago, on the legal claim of our country of the Parthenon sculptures from the British Museum. The question I raise to you is in response to the Greek Parliament and it is this: I know that on 25 August 2015 you signed the establishment of the Committee of Experts, which the Government of New Democracy had done, replacing three of its five members. And you replaced the law, which was specializing in the issue of intellectual property and antiquities, which is a service factor. You have also replaced the Director-General for Antiquities, who is responsible for these issues. The first question is: why did you do it? With what logic? With what reason? The second question, which is as follows: has you been recommended, has this committee been set up? Did he meet, Minister? And if he met, he made a suggestion that you said seven days ago, so that the country would not go to legal claim in fear of any failure of judicial investigation? If the committee has not recommended you, is it your idea, is it the Prime Minister, is it the government? Are you deciding on these matters alone? Does the Minister of Culture also know - the Ministry of Culture, obviously - that our country has managed, through efforts, to reach a unanimous decision by UNESCO, which has adopted the request for England to come into mediation with Greece? This was in 2014. And a deadline was given for England, which did not respond. What we officially say from the Step of the Parliament, through the mouth of the Minister of Culture, even with a repackage, will go to the British Museum? Is the Minister's repair going to the British Museum? So when we all say in our way that Greece is not right to claim the sculptures of the Parthenon, what message do we send? Why am I saying this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen? The directive has been technically explained. I shall speak politically and in essence. Politicians are consciously attempted by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL a change in the cultural and national identity of the country. In fact, the pillars of this company are the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Education launched this operation to alter the country's cultural and national identity with the issue of the Pontian Genocide. For when you say 'national cleansing', you are not entitled - and we lawyers are aware of it - you are not entitled to compensation. But when you say "genocide", there is a question of court proceedings for the victims. The second is about a change. Minister for Culture, you know that the foreign policy of the National Theatre, which had been launched in the previous period, during the days of the previous government, was 'the policy of pipelines', as was called - where with ancient tragedies and high-quality and aesthetic works, classical works, were carried out along the countries with which it had signed contracts, which were cancelled unnecessarily? The question, Mr President, is this: because you tell us a lot about the previous government, I tell you that our budgets for your Ministry of Culture, for example, were much better last year. Last year the Ministry of Culture had 290m euros and this year you have 281m euros. In conclusion, I would like to say that you must explain to the Greek Parliament what you are doing, because the issue of the sculptures of the Parthenon did not give you the mandate of the Greek people to deal with it in the way you said. And in any case, if you want to know the opinion of the Greek people, do a referendum - which is dear to you - and you will see the answer. Suffice the day after the referendum instead of the answer given to you by the Greek people, not to give another answer, which is different from the one for which the referendum is being held. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u125	There's research.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mrs Papacostas - Ironopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u127	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u128	Refer to the point of view, see what the Greek people say. There's research.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u129	But don't engage in dialogue if you're kind. Be quiet for the Minister to speak. Mr Stavros Kontonis is the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that today, at certain stages of the debate, there has been an absolute confusion over the bill under discussion, a confusion which was extended with reports on the sculptures of the Parthenon, the Pontian Genocide, and now we have heard of both the pipeline and the theatres. I am telling you, this cannot be the case for a serious debate in this House. And this cannot be done, because if we agree on something, we can say it directly that we agree, if we disagree, that we find the disagreements and see how the process can progress constructively. So the first thing I want to say is that this directive has been closed on the Greek Presidency. The government was the New Democracy. New Democracy is coming here now and it says that we disagree on it, on alpha, on beta. At some point on its day, however, the directive was closed. But can we come to an understanding, right? So, if this isn't the end of populism - I don't know if I can use another word - what is it? We should be a little concerned about the tactics that some of us are taking in here. In the end, this is how the parliamentary procedure itself is set out. If, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you did not agree with this, why did you close the directive on your day? We are telling you that it was a good thing that you did, because the directive is better than the previous one. So don't come now to complain and say these things, because I'll tell you that you eat and contradict. Secondly, there has been a debate here today and a lot of colleagues have said - and I am not referring to the Golden Dawn, which is here in general to give an image of a arena, but to colleagues from other parties who otherwise claim to be a constructive opposition - to stealing the sculptors of the Parthenon, to their illegal possession by the British Museum, as well as to thefts made during the German occupation of Greece. What does this have to do with the draft law under discussion? Can someone tell me? It is expressly stated in Article 3 that the provisions of this Law apply to cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of Greece after 1 January 1993. Do you want to tell us Elgin stole them after 01-01-1993?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u131	The Minister made a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u132	What do you say, Mrs. Papakosta? I heard you before. I'm telling you, I didn't expect to hear that from you. I didn't expect you to hear such things!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u133	But the Minister made a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u134	I've been expecting it from others. I didn't expect you to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u135	Deal, but the Minister made a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u136	We tell you, get a little together and read what each draft law says so that you do not relate to reports and claims that have nothing to do with the draft law. Thirdly, the JRC's rapporteur has referred to the compensation provided for in the draft law of the good law. And, in fact, we have referred, ladies and gentlemen, with disgraceful characterizations of the press, "here becomes a business", "here we reward the thief" and so on. Well, if no one can understand the difference of the thief from the good-faithed nomad, then he does not have any debate in Parliament! It's superfluous! And to say something else to the representative of the JRC, he'll be a little concerned about it. A similar provision for the well-being prefecture exists in the Greek Civil Code, Article 1101, if I remember correctly. So, that's where a business is going? And that's where we compensate the thief? Such confusion, in other words, that the bill that speaks of the good-faithed lawmaker rewards the thief? The thief is a thief and, therefore, by definition, a malicious nomad if he owns it. I would like to say, therefore, that if we have every reason to oppose the government - some of us in this Chamber - can do so in a different way and not by mentioning it, that is, why the JRC's rapporteur has now entered - that this is where we are doing business with regard to the clipboard or archaic. That's insane! Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor, in addition to this, to support an amendment tabled by SYRIZA Members to restore their work after 10 November of the workers in the Occupied Territories. It is an amendment that moves in the spirit of the legislation of 13 May of this year, but extends the scope of the possibility of working for workers in the Occupied Territories. If you remember the previous legislation only concerned the bodies supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports. Now, under this provision, it is not only limited to the supervised bodies of the General Secretariat of Sports, but also to the entire Ministry of Culture and Sport, as well as to Otto I and II grades. And I would like to say here that, in this legislative way, the issue of this outstanding issue is finally resolved. Because this government, based on the legality and fair demands of the workers, is politicizing and taking care of the continuation of their working lives. The regulation, therefore, that those workers who were judged either by courts of the country or by the AACC that the contract with which they were employed was an indefinite contract of private time, these workers are restored and transferred to services, are recruited in the services that I have described to you. We believe that we are mainly respecting the law and the Constitution, because unreasonable allegations of the press, regardless of what the employment relationship is, what the contract is, and so on, the public must in any case be forced to work, it is completely wrong. This approach and unconstitutional approach are also illegal. The government is dealing on the basis of existing legislation and respect for the Constitution. If there are any other perceptions, it is good for them to think about it again. On the basis of what I have said to you, we consider that the issue of workers at the ILO, which we are giving retrospective effect from 9 December, is that there will not be a single day for these people's working lives to be stopped, and that is a final and irreversible solution. And I'm sure it won't bother us again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr Stavros Kontonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u138	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u139	Now you want to answer, Mr. Tassos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u140	Oh, no. Are we gonna have secondarys?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u141	You'll have a second one, of course. So you'll answer then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I would ask the floor on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u143	You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u144	I want the Minister to explain something to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u146	I'll be very brief. I would ask you to bear in mind the number of officials who are being transferred? Because I don't see it here. Maybe he didn't get my eye, maybe I didn't get a chance to read it. How many are there, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u147	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u148	Can I ask a second question if you're kind?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u149	Of course, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u150	Secondly, please tell me the number and the specialties. We will support this amendment, because it concerns workers, but I want it to be clarified, so that we do not open up a new wound to the future, because each time such arrangements can be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u151	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u152	The question is very correct. First of all, Mr Colleague, I would like to say that it is at this moment because it is possible to take further decisions - because the law has a force in international law - that other conventions should be judged to be contracts with an indefinite duration of private law. Right now we figure it's no more than a hundred forty. As far as the specialities are concerned, you know, the specialities were the ones that troubled us and extended the possibility of recruitment to other supervised bodies, other than the General Secretariat, and to the Ministry of Culture and Sport, in the whole of the supervised bodies, but also to the OTAs. There were specialities, for example the veterinarians. What can you get the vet to do with him at a stage? Because these are the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the Sports Sector, the old General Secretariat as we were saying. That is why we have decided that in this way we should not only be legitimate, as I have described you but also rationalizing ourselves where they really need them. And you know very well that Ottas (a) and (b) need such specialties. So these specialties will be directed to these services, so that these people can render themselves on the basis of their studies, their experience, their education and not be curbed by a cognitive object that has conquered it, by doing a work that does not correspond to them, while we can place them in other services, where they will be absolutely useful and satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u153	Very good. We must not engage in any further dialogue, I think that was enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u154	For locating to tell us Markopoulos and Mesogeia, if any.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u155	But be the last comment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u156	This, Mr President, will be judged by the statements made on the position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u157	Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari, SYRIZA Bulgarian, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. The question of the draft law, namely the incorporation of the Community directive we are discussing today on the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of a Member State, is a reference and vindicating point of reference for the defence of its own historical continuity. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that no democratic parties voted against the incorporation in the committee in its discussion, highlighting the possibility and necessity for maximum unity at national level. Of course, some technical statements by the former Minister of Culture, Mr Tasoula, after the first meeting, with the assistance of the systemic media, almost led to a complete disorientation from the content of the directive and from the initiatives of the Greek Government on this subject. We must all understand that our work as a Parliament does not end today with the necessary vote in favour of the draft law. It is the first and necessary step, but it is not enough. After all, in the debate in the intergroup on German compensation, which is a spirit of cooperation, there is the optimism of an important joint finding. In particular, in the cultural aspect, its findings would help to highlight the need to return illegally lost cultural treasures. Our political aim must therefore be to incorporate this directive quickly and in good terms. For example, we propose, with reference to the fact that there is an explicit reference to an approach for earlier years, before 1993, and from the other Member States of the Union, in order to obtain a real scope. After all, the Minister at the second meeting has condensed the substance of the matter, saying that we are generously opening up the possibility of the other Member States to go beyond 1993, and we are therefore giving an example to the fact that if anyone claims from us - that is, if we hold a good in another state - even before 1993 - if it is able to do so. In short, it is important that we succeed with this incorporation of the directive, but also with the implementation of a number of things, which should have already been done and must definitely be improved and we must also make it known that only three countries have made progress in this integration. In a national context, I therefore propose that we see how the cultural goods documentation and protection section and the management of national archives of monuments, documentation and the protection of cultural goods of the Ministry of Culture and Sport will be fully suited to continue this important work that is being carried out. The current government, even in the difficult period of the previous seven-month negotiation of its mandate both within borders and outside borders, did not at any time degrade the need to arm itself internationally and internationally in the regime for the return of illegally distant cultural treasures. Former Minister of Culture in May 2015 - at the third meeting of the member states of the 1970 UNESCO Convention - stated that all necessary steps must be taken to restore the illegally remote treasures. I have tabled the necessary steps in the debate made by the political leadership at the time. The incorporation of the directive therefore strengthens existing legislation and strengthens registration and control procedures. If we look at the law which incorporates the directive, we will see that it is gradually being promoted - and within the framework allowed for corresponding obligations to the European framework - this design. In other words, the concept of a cultural asset is broadened, since it allows for the return of any good characterized by a Member State as a national treasure. It is important, too, that a cultural asset is defined as a good which, before or after its illegal removal, has been characterised or designated by a state as a national treasure of artistic, historical or archaeological value. An excellent news as a result of the design of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Culture, of course, is the latest of 9-12-2015 adoption - a decision of the United Nations General Assembly on the return of cultural goods to the countries of origin in New York. There is particular reference to the decision to set up Ancient Olympia, which calls on the Member States to mobilise stolen cultural treasures, with express reference to the return of the Parthenon sculptures, because much has been said about this, without, of course, concerning the specific transposition of the Community directive. The recommendation of Ancient Olympia was adopted during the third international conference of experts to return cultural goods held in Athens and Ancient Olympia. The annual conference is an initiative of Greece, China, Korea and Turkey and highlights the importance that our country attaches to having a multi-dimensional and active foreign policy in the field of culture. With such decisions and corresponding decisions we can say that we are gaining ground in claiming the return of the Parthenon sculptures. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the transfer of the sculpture depicting the river God Iliso from the abundance of the Parthenon by the British Museum, namely the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg, that SYRIZA at that time as opposition and I personally from this Step we had stressed that the masterpieces of antiquity are a chapter of the world cultural heritage, not as fragments of antiquities and trade but as organic parts of their place of creation, in which they create a broad architectural and plastic unity. In this light, we must also claim stolen treasures from the tragic period of Nazi occupation and not just. I believe, however, that this step must once again state our disdain for vandalism and the destruction of ancient times - and not only - monuments from fantasized human beings, who deprive the world's cultural heritage of the continuity of the historical memory of the peoples. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the bet is that the directive really operates within the European framework, and even, as far as we are concerned, that it should enter the top of the debate at university level, scientific bodies and other stakeholders, but that there should also be information from the public media, so that there is even more awareness about the issue of stolen and archaeocausts in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari. Another Member, Mr Skourikos, will speak and then Mr Danellis, Parliamentary Representative of the River. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, archaeocapilia is an open wound, not only during the life of the modern Greek state but also from the time of the Romans, where many works of art were transferred from the Greek space to Rome. So we have lived all these years in the history of archaocapilia, which has passed in our lives, in our everyday life, in our customs, in art. It is well known that Sure's stigmats are known. It is of interest also a comical single-practic of Nicolas Laskaris, "The sale of Athena", which is worth reading to see how the archaocapilia was within the everyday life of the new Greek immediately after the creation of the newest Greek state. At the same time, however, he tried very early on to claim the stolen ones all these years. Since 1842 with Alexandros Ragavis as President of the In Athens Archaeological Society and again in 1924 with the opportunity to complete a hundred years since the death of Lord Byron. Lord Burrow and Lord Elgin. Two Lords so different. It is not here, of course, the spokesman for the Democratic Consensus who evaporated in the statement by the Minister that ISIS destroys monuments down there in Palmyra and wondered, "But Lord Elgin is ISIS?" Well, it wasn't Lord Byron. And what ISIS did, that's what Elgin did here. Efforts were made again in 1961 by the Municipality of Athens and the Academy of Athens and after 1982 by Melina with the internationalization of the problem and its contribution to the creation of the museum. This bill, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, sets out some important things, which are the national treasures, which defines the upper and lower economic and chronological limits. It is defined in 1993, because then the single market begins to apply and we have a reduction in customs controls on goods. But it also gives the opportunity to extend to earlier times, provided that the cultural good moved from one Member State to another Member State and then to a third State outside the European Union, clearly photographing the antiquities stolen during possession by the nazis, were transferred to Berlin and there in Moscow. I should like to stay a little while in the report by the representative of the JRC, as regards the fact that someone who is stealing a car from us, it is not possible to pay him, because he has not destroyed it. The good-faithed lawmakers and the legal dimension have explained them well enough, and Mr. Kontonis has explained them. I say very simply that the Aphrodite of Milos is not a car. As is not a car a painting, a picture of Byzantine hagiography, a utensil of our younger civilization.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u161	You've done a car.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u162	If we leave this, then, just because there is speculation - because there is speculation, that is what the archaic is doing, it is speculating - then we will patronise our national treasures in the halls where auctions and the beautiful halls of the rich are being auctioned. We have to do everything we can to get these treasures back. This draft law adapting to the directive of the European Parliament does not solve all the problems at all, above all we have so many problems with the parts of the Parthenon which must be returned to restore the monument and so many others. However, it creates an institutional acquis, it creates an environment in which we can fight for the others, because we are not just staying there. I will mention the work and effort that is being done in the UN to decide on the return of cultural goods to their countries of origin. Greece is present in the UN with its reports every three years. This year we note that special mention has been made of the establishment of Ancient Olympia, where it calls on the Member States to mobilise to return stolen treasures with explicit reference to the return of the sculptures of the Parthenon. Nothing is over, because Mr Venizelos, disappointed by the efforts he has made as Minister, thinks he has come to the conclusion that we cannot diplomatically claim anything. Nothing's over. Now this year is the UN position on the return of the Parthenon sculptures. Finally, I should like to say that this provision is more of a concern to the countries of the South that are bleeding, and to no less than to the countries of the North which are the incomes of all these stolen countries. To conclude, I welcome the amendment, which I have had the honour of signing, to restore the right to work for the workers in the Occupied Territories. I should like to welcome this bill and invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Panagiotis Squirrel. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the 3rd Gymnasium Tripolis (B' section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Spyros Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from Potami, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, violence, regardless of the form, intensity or origin, is totally condemnable, without 'but', 'but' or any asterisk, and it is extremely worrying that society's malnutrition towards the phenomena of violence against politicians and against Parliament itself, a mistress that was raised in the stone years of the memorial tombs of the 'immemorial shell' with the demonstration of tolerance, justification or even debilitation. I would refer to a fact which shows the size and risk of this mistributiveism which I mentioned a few days after the lynching of my colleague Mr Kumucasakos from fascoids here in front of the Unknown Soldier, when one of the top journalists who has a great influence on the formation of citizens' consciences, Mr Hatzinikolaou, said in his radio show that he does not understand why the subject of violence was Mr Kumucascus, who is a conservative and adorable politician but would understand whether violence was being exercised on Mr Papaconstantinou or on any of the ministers of the past. And the worst thing is not that Mr Hatzinikolau didn't understand what he said at the time, but that no one reacted publicly either from the political world or from any other side! In view of the gravity of Parliament's choices in this context, I call on the Government to withdraw the provisions relating to the happy treatment of detainees who are accused and imprisoned due to the exercise of particularly serious violence through terrorist acts. In fact, I appeal to the government to withdraw these provisions from a bill that comes to defend human rights. With regard to the bill, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the first bill brought by the Ministry of Culture of the Left Government. It is a bill'simply', as the Minister described it in the committee, a bill which is both easy and harmless. It is the incorporation of a European directive into Greek legislation. This is the first piece of legislation we see about culture by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I will not dwell on what this European directive ensures or improves. After all, we agree and will vote in favour, as we said, of the bill. I fear, however, that this convenience, this simplicity or the harmlessness of today's bill, is that it reveals poverty in the field of culture, a field of privilege, not only for the country, but also historically for the Left. To date, there has been absolutely nothing in the field of culture, except perhaps the endless stalling of positions in the overseers by the Ministry of Culture, always accompanied by a hideous gossip in the press or a finest declaration of preference by the Prime Minister but also by many government officials to a specific aesthetic or for specific artists, who at best only shows bad taste and worse preference for artists who flatter or shamelessly prophesy power. It is preferable to artists who are our "professionals", "identified with the party and therefore they support us". You are establishing party criteria in art and this ends your cultural policy, which is certainly dangerous and disastrous. And the Left always pointed it out in the past. The Left came to power in dark times, in the suffocating context of the memorials, and I fully understand that it is unable to give its own stigma. But it's not all the economy. Why is this also the case in culture? Things should be completely different here, because culture is especially on the left. It's always been. It was her privileged place. The Left here always had proposals, had vision. Today, in the course of the fifth year of the crisis we used to say economics, while we all agree that it is mainly a crisis of values and culture, we overlook it very often. Today, with the excuse of the poor economy, culture seems to be a minor issue, I would expect the Left to take other initiatives here and manifest a vision, other ready proposals, imagination and plan that could be implemented. Instead of that, intoxicated by power, you are being donated and reproduced the cultural model that is largely responsible for bankruptcy. You recognize that there are creative powers, people who insist on doing art in the difficult times of the crisis, but you forget them, ignore them and eventually isolate them. Perhaps because now - as I have to say - they are in front of you. It is sad on the left that he discovers enemies where he traditionally had friends, where he had interlocutors, where he traditionally grew. It is sad that you too are confirming the dominant model of rulers who have always preferred the conventional, repetitive, without peaks, from the constantly changing and fluid, leaving space to the new, to change, to creation, ultimately to progress. Losing the field of art and culture, the Left in our country probably accepts that she is ageing and I'm very afraid she's getting badly old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr Spyros Dannelis, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u166	Since there have been some references by the Parliamentary spokesman, I think you should give me the floor to answer two points which the Government has raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u167	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u168	I sincerely regret, Mr President, that you have referred to once again - and you have made a mistake - that the provisions adopted by the previous House concern the discharge or the dismissal of terrorists. And I am not only sorry for that - because in the end no terrorist has left the prisons - but in fact, here with what you have said, you are hitting the core of the rule of law. The House general and vaguely legislates for all Greek citizens. If he legislated otherwise, that is, especially personally, then that law would be unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u169	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u170	We have therefore legislated here for a category of detainees who have a high degree of disability and said that they have the right to submit a request that will be judged on whether they can continue to create the penalty - take care, not to liberate - at home with the geoenterism regime, what we are used to call 'the bracelet'. Where did you see a problem with this provision? Honestly, tell me. So you want our fellow men who have suffered a crime and are detained, when they have a disability rate in law, to continue to be detained? And I would expect today, after you have at least made this report, to say something else, to tell us that you made a mistake a few days ago that you issued a press release denounced by the Prime Minister and government officials that they are making statements of approval of an incident that took place in the center of Athens. We would expect you to tell us at least that it was wrong, because these statements were never made. And instead of issuing a communication saying "we were wrong, these statements have not been made", you issued other communications, with which you again wanted to load the broken ones into the government. This is not the case, Mr Dannelly, for dialogue! And it is neither inconsistent with the legislation passed by the House - the government's recommendation - nor the issue of false announcements of things that have never been done and for which there have never been communications from the Prime Minister or government officials. That's left, if you want me to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u171	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u172	And don't worry too much about the Left. The left ones know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Fisherman, wait a minute. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor. If you have kindness, be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u176	For the second time, I think you've lost your sense of humor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u177	Oh, you were humorous!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u178	Of course! You didn't recognize the Prime Minister's statements...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u179	If you had had a sense of humor, then I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u180	Minister, you don't have the floor. Mr. Dannelly, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u181	I didn't interrupt you. The Prime Minister's statements did not you recognize them, the ones he had made in 2014, and which we brought back, so to trial humor, to similar phenomena?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u182	Oh, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u183	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u184	What do you think? You will give me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u185	Yes, we can continue the dialogue. Now to the substance, Mr Minister, you may not be aware of the provisions, which in an unsatisfactory way, proposing that rights be protected as a shield, bringing the bill of the right to a cohabitation agreement to the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u186	Not to go to another bill now, because the conversation has been excavated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u187	No, no, excuse me. The Minister said we didn't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u188	The Minister did not refer to a bill that will come, he referred to a draft bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u189	I said retire. I have referred to what comes and asked the government to feel and to withdraw the provisions which come, which are beneficial to groups of prisoners, of course, who are obviously the ones I have referred to, unless you want hypocrisy to continue to distinguish our political life. That is where I referred, not what we have already voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u190	I have not referred to these, I have spoken to you in favour of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u191	Minister, you don't have the floor. Wait a minute, let it end, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u192	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u193	Why such anguish?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u194	Not now, Minister, don't interrupt him. Please answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u195	I'm talking about what's coming. Do you keep it in mind? Do you take these provisions into account? You don't have them in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u196	You cannot talk about legislation that has not come, which is in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u197	Oh, don't you know? Aren't you aware of the planning and implementation of the government project?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Undersecretary, please. Mr. Danielle, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u199	Do you only engage in sport and culture and others escape you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u200	What do you say, Mr. Dannelly? Be insulting and relentless.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Danielle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u202	What are you talking about? But do you keep going? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u203	Shame on you and even twice!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u204	You must be in charge. As Minister, you must exercise the floor responsibly. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u205	Enough! Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u206	Wait a minute, Lieutenant, I'll give you the floor. Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u207	Do you understand what I mentioned? I didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Danielle, the State Secretary referred to a draft law. He didn't answer you. So, normally I shouldn't have given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u209	How did he not refer to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u211	I mean, I've been referring to adopted bills...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u212	Where did I refer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u213	Let's tell you, Mr. Dannelly, what you're talking about. Let's tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u214	Who told you I referred to this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u215	What are you talking about, Mr. Dannelly?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u216	What am I saying? Do you ignore the planning of the parliamentary work?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u217	That argument...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u218	Do you know what we're voting for tomorrow? Do you know what went through the committees?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Danielle, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u220	Mr Dannelly, you cannot go here in vain and invoke provisions that are being voted on. They haven't even had a good time - they're having fun by the Commission...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u221	What are you saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u222	What am I telling you? Now we have the debate and it is over. So I'm telling you that I of what you said - because you didn't specify anything else in your speech - understood...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u223	You said you had some arrangements... Please, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u224	No, no, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u225	...I understood and said it about resolutions passed on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which I said was made by the previous House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u226	But he said more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u227	If you were to say something else, you should say that they are committed to a draft law and do not concern the government's previous legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u228	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u229	Please very much. You make such references and say to withdraw the provisions. I understand that you refer to the provisions that we voted on in the previous House. These other things...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u230	You didn't understand well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Fisherman, I will not disagree with you. The rest of you talk about it when the bill comes to the vote. So what else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u232	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u233	Secondly, I am surprised, Mr Dannelly, that today, in Parliament's Chamber, you recognised that you issued a statement on 7 December 2015 on a statement by the Prime Minister or government officials for the events of 2014. Mr. Danell, do you understand what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u234	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u235	You are telling us that you issued a communication in December 2015 on events 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u236	That's what the current Prime Minister was saying when it wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u237	In fact, you arbitrarily identify the facts and issue a year's delay notices. If you're a slow-burning party, it's not our fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u238	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u239	If, after a year, you issue communications and you denounce the Prime Minister, then that is at least problematic about how you operate and make your positions public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u240	Do you do what you don't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u241	You will allow me to say that we are completely out of line. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u242	If the Minister didn't understand, well. If he does what he doesn't understand, badly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u243	That's a crisis thing. Let's move on to the bill that we have in front of us. We have some time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u244	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Danielle, I gave you the time. The Members and the world are fully aware of this. I would ask that the debate be stopped at this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u246	You could give me the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u247	No, I already allowed you - because you had the right to devote your time as you wish - to refer to a bill that is under way and voted was at the limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u248	What are you talking about? Clear opinions on how this Parliament, the temple of democracy, operates? Don't fall into the same force as the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u249	We're talking about another bill. Under the Rules of Procedure, we are taking the floor for the bill we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u250	And I can't talk anywhere in here? Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u251	You referred to a bill and the Minister told you that you all have the power and the right to develop it in the debate that is taking place...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u252	Sure. I asked that they should be withdrawn from the government today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u253	Let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u254	So he knew where the Minister was talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u255	But you can't hear me. You have the right and it is even more effective to do so in the body which has the power to change or withdraw an amendment. This is another House and we are discussing the bill in which we continue with Mrs Katsavria, Parliamentary of SYRIZA, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u256	I don't believe what's heard here on the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u257	Well, you guys have no problem. You've abandoned the Left for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u258	You're falsified!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u259	Please stop to listen to Mrs Katsavria's speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today with this bill we are taking a small step in the right direction. It is a bill of great importance, because Greece is a country victim of the snatching of many cultural goods, archaeological, religious and others, which decorate numerous museums of Europe and the whole world. This bill aims to help restore the integrity of our cultural heritage, because this actually strengthens the institutional and legal arsenal in the matter of the return of our cultural treasures. With the incorporation of the 2014 European Union directive, there is an attempt to combat the illicit trafficking of cultural goods, as the old 1993 directive did not meet the objectives of safeguarding our cultural treasures. The gaps existing in the previous directive have caused many problems with the deadlines for bringing legal proceedings, i.e. actions that were too small and were expelled directly, making it impossible many times to lodge a complaint. Also, another major problem involving Greece was, and continues to, the real ban on the claim of stolen treasures before 1993. Finally, there was no control of house auctions for the origin of cultural goods, while the exchange of information between Member States was at least inadequate at administrative level. Our cultural heritage is not detached from the living reality and we have an obligation to ensure and protect it in order to give it to the next generations. And it is not only about Greece and our wealth but also about countries in war zones, such as the Middle East, where the phenomenon of theft and disposal of cultural relics is observed. What can anyone say about Palmyra, Iraq and Afghanistan? Repeated monuments, treasures, literally, are now sold on the markets of Europe and America by publicists, decorating displays of occult collectors, insulting and canceling the cultural identity of the peoples. It is now necessary to fight for the preservation of our cultural heritage, the cultural heritage of every people. This requires that everyone cooperates, not only in the Member States of the European Union but also in the international community as a whole. Cooperation is a necessary condition for combating smuggling, rooting out of their home monuments over time, linked to their place and people. Unfortunately, the European Union does not seem to have culture as its priority. However, we, the followers of a heavy cultural heritage, are obliged to highlight the priority of culture and take initiatives to combat archaocaust and smuggling. Three amendments to this bill have been tabled in the right direction, as they help to protect against the protection of cultural goods and fair return to their homeland. We must note that the bill is innovating, as according to Article 8 provides for the return of the cultural good following a judicial decision. There is also provision for compensation for the trustworthy lawmaker, of course, only if he showed due diligence and attention during the acquisition, that is, he did all the searches to verify that the object was not stolen. These amounts may be claimed by the State by the persons responsible for the illegal removal of the cultural good from their territory. Ladies and gentlemen, with the incorporation into Greek legislation of the 2014 Community directive we are making some progress, cowardly but progressing, as it adds weapons to the patron of claiming cultural goods by their legitimate heirs. The incorporation of this directive into our national legislation is part of our obligation as Greeks to defend our heavy heritage and also as citizens of the world to safeguard the culture and foundations of this very existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u261	Thank you to SYRIZA MP Mr Katsavria - Siropoulou Chrysula. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy Mr Theodoros Fortsakis has the floor for twelve minutes or less if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u262	I will try, Mr President. I know the time has passed and everyone's tired. Besides, the Chamber is not full. I would first of all like you to allow me to start by making a reference to this sad episode last night, which other colleagues from different parties have mentioned. It is truly regrettable that a Member of Parliament, any Member of the Greek Parliament, should be prejudiced in the way that happened last night to Mr Economou, simply because he appeared in an area which is considered unbaptised. This is a situation that has unfortunately been shaped over time. It is not the responsibility of the current government alone. It is the responsibility of all the governments of recent years, who have failed to do what they had to do to ensure that there is no place in Athens - and in our country in general - no place where anyone can safely drink or walk. It is not meant to be persecuted because it expresses a political position. I note that what happened to Mr Economou is the most recent incident in New Democracy MPs. A few days ago, we had the incident with Mr. Kumoutsako in Syntagma Square, we had the incident of Mr. Athanasios with the bomb on his site. Of course, they are not the only Members of Parliament who suffer from such things. We had an incident that took place at my expense a few days ago, on Sunday, where I was invited to speak at the hotel "TITANIA", at a gathering of young people, along with Mr Koumoutsakos, two professors of law and Mr Theocharis. They invaded the space unknown, who started to shout, to give material, were succeeded against all the attendants, in particular Mr Kumucaku and the two professors of law and against me, because I allegedly filed a complaint with the police - which, of course, I have never done - also, because I have allegedly taken a stand and developed action against immigrants, which is of course a fiction. This episode was followed up, because a young man who had the misfortune to be photographed next to me was beaten up at his school yesterday, at the Legal School, resulting in this young child, who is weak in the face and suffers from diabetes, undergo a serious episode and need for medical assistance. These incidents are totally unacceptable and I am sure you, Mr Minister, will condemn them as far as I am concerned. However, it is not enough to say this wooden 'we do not allow' or 'we condemn the incidents'. We must also take those measures and the sanctions which will finally put an end to this situation. I think these incidents are extremely serious and we should not slip, because we may have developments that we do not expect. I shall now refer to today's bill, which is, as we know, ratification of this agreement on the return of cultural goods. It is an issue that is of greatest interest to Greece. Previous speakers have said so, and I will not come back. We know what is happening today in the world. In fact, the Minister said so with great grief earlier - we see what is happening in Palmyra and elsewhere. After all, we know that these disasters of the archaeological sites are made mainly for the purpose of the disasters, to obtain a profit from the sale of the data collected after the disaster and, of course, they suddenly have a huge commercial value that they could not have, since they were protected in the place where they were found. The European Community - the European Union today - is unfortunately late to realize the value of protecting cultural goods. It did so at some point in 1993 and gradually improved it in 1996 and 2001. It comes today with a new directive to give a more improved version. This European Union effort is a combination of respect for two basic principles of European law, which have been in place since the Treaties came into force. On the one hand, the free movement of all goods in the internal market and, on the other, the protection of national treasures, which are of artistic and archaeological value. The protection that is being given today is certainly improved in relation to what has been provided in the past. The progress made, first of all, refers to the broadening of the concept of cultural good, which is now defined by the Member State as a treasure, which may be the subject of a request for its return. We therefore have a better acceptance of the term cultural asset, and we stress that as a positive development. Previously, there was an annex that restricted this concept. We have an extension of the deadlines, so that there are the two months before, now six months so that the States concerned can demand the recovery of the national treasure. We also have an extension to three years, instead of one, for return procedures to be initiated. These provisions are certainly very positive. We also have the establishment of an information system, which is advanced. We have a unit which allows us to have improved cooperation and an exchange of information between the various administrative authorities of the Member States. So we have a very good point here too. Finally, we also have the transfer of the burden of proof, which is now borne by the holder or the prefect of the good which he claims is called upon to prove that he is a well-founded holder, so that he can obtain a compensation, which is granted to him as a condition of the refund. On this point, because there was a debate on the lawmaker or the holder, I would stress that the fact that compensation is provided for is natural when it is established that all those procedures, in particular those relating to the conditions of acquisition of the good, have been complied with and it appears that there could never be a suspicion that they were protected. Therefore, I do not think that this is an element which can raise objections. The directive contains various criteria which are not exhaustive. These are the positive aspects of the directive. But there are also some negative ones. The new Republic's rapporteur said that when he spoke from the Step, and I will not go into it, because he has said it quite thoroughly. I will only mention two plus one, which has so far not been identified and which, in my opinion, is something that needs to be taken seriously, Minister, in view of future claims. The first negative element is that Article 3 provides for 1993 to be the ultimate point of time. Of course, it is understandable and clear that the directive refers to the period from 1993 onwards. There's no doubt about it. We all understand that. It is also clear that when we talk about the ratification of a directive, it does not mean ratification selective, it is a total ratification and, therefore, we cannot cut the directive apart. Our objections therefore make the point that we highlight gaps that we identify in the directive and we urge the Greek governments - and today and the future - to raise the issue again and again until we achieve better protection of cultural goods, which I know we all want. I think that the conditions in the European Union will slowly grow and that we will have more and more protection. It is therefore important to recognise and propose these issues more and more to be discussed until it becomes a common understanding that we will not be able to do anything else, rather than extend protection and hope that we will come to some point at some point in time, in order to cover all our claims as well. The second negative point is that referred to in Article 7, combined with Article 8. I note with regard to Article 3 that if there is a possibility of an interpretation in the application of the directive, which is more favourable to Greece - because there is some ambiguity in terms of wording - Greece has every interest not to protest because it stops in '93 but to try to impose an interpretation that will be as broad as possible in the past. This will be studied by the legal services of the Ministry, so that they can advise the Minister how it will succeed, because it is in the interests of Greece, of course, to propose an interpretation as widely as possible. Another negative point is the limitations in Article 7, in conjunction with Article 8, where we have the 30 and seventy-five years of age. We would of course like these claims to be inalienable. I think few will disagree with that. I think it is right that this should always be brought to the surface until we have a debate on the whole matter by the partners. It has been said before, and I would like to say again that there are two categories of states in the European Union. It is a good thing, along with the other states which have interests that coincide most with our own, that we propose our ideas with them and that we talk again with the North's partners in order to bring them to a debate as favourable as possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] For Article 8(2), for fair compensation, I have already spoken and will not be extended. I said what my view is on this issue. I would just like to make one comment now, in relation to what the Vice-President who chaired this morning, Mr Kaklamanis, who made an amendment to create a specific offence, which refers to the punishment of those who offend cultural goods. I think he is very right and we must do so, because we have insults which are very important throughout Athens. And of course we are at the University of Athens, the statues that are around us every day watch them suffer from suffocation, blows and other insults. It is a good thing that there is a special concern about this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to tell you, Minister, that the directive has a void which is good for the Ministry to show it. The gap is that there is no care for those cultural goods which have not been illegally exported from the country but which are pieces of a monument where the main monument is located in one country and the pieces or pieces in other countries. This, of course, does not refer only to the Parthenon. We have hundreds of thousands of paintings that are shredded in many museums in the world. It would be very positive if Greece could start a wider debate so that this does not only confine itself to what others seem to be interested only in Greece and ask that Europe is able to regulate the question of the integration of cultural goods, which are scattered across the world. Of course, this must be done by means of exchanges. In other words, the one who receives a piece will have to give something else from somewhere else to balance these issues. This also provides a very good basis for getting another dimension and the debate on the Parthenon that we so much care about. Instead of insisting so much on the illegal exit of the tracks from the country - which, as we all know, legally raises issues and debates, even though we ultimately achieve recognition - which is a difficult route, perhaps we should stick to the process of integration. This road seems much more reasonable and will bring with us alliances from both the North and the North, which have so many paintings of paintings cut and sewn in various museums, which are being sent back to them by the famous triplets, the Renaissance, etc. I think, therefore, that with these remarks, we will vote in favour of the principle of the draft law with the reservations I mentioned about these articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u263	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Theodoros Fortsakis. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Reconciliation, Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u264	First of all, I would like to refer to something I have said earlier. So this morning I took the floor and asked for a total condemnation of the phenomenon that took place in Exarchia last night. At that time, Mr. Kaklamanis who was chairing it agreed. Of course, there was a total condemnation. But then I saw some other statements. I think today does not want to have 'yes' but 'yes' by anyone. When something happens, we do not "but" on specific issues. We are not saying 'yes, but violence gives rise to violence', as the parliamentary representative of the co-chairing party in the government said for example. We must therefore be clear, saying that this is something that cannot continue and that we must find ways to stop all these phenomena from wherever they come from. And, of course, the conviction of this particular event is unambiguous. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say to you, Mr Kontonis, that I listened well a little while ago and really amazed at the fact that you have a bill here that the opposition parties are voting on at first. So here is the programme opposition, which is being made on the substance, without making a sterile opposition, with the points, notes and changes we are asking for on specific articles. I imagine you realize that's the opposition. That is what the Communism is doing, that is what the Opposition does, even when it agrees on the principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u265	When we've been...(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u266	So you, Minister, today - and I am watching that you are not listening to the parliamentary representatives of the parties and constantly intervening in the process - have not done so. And when we talk about the consistency of election speeches and post-elections, I imagine you have a self-criticism about what you had done as SYRIZA before January 2015. Because we heard that too. Only for Left Certificates you did not speak a moment ago, even to people coming from the Left, as before. So all this must stay out of this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u267	You're making us... (It hasn't been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u268	I'm oppositioning you, Mr. Contonis. You can bear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u269	You're making an opposition!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u270	Let go of arrogance, because arrogance is not a good consultant and you should be able to see these issues and answer specific issues - when the time comes - when it comes, of course, when it comes to your field of sport, about what has happened over the past year and whether we have moved on with something. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are being given the extremely rare opportunity to debate in the House on culture. Because culture remains, unfortunately, the most abandoned field of policy. We are therefore called today on to incorporate into national legislation a Community directive, which is clearly necessary for the protection of cultural goods. However, today, more than ever, we need to have a vision of the future of Greek culture and in this context to design an integrated national cultural policy, which is directly linked to economic development and will actively contribute to the cohesion of the hard-tested Greek society. As in the explanatory memorandum, therefore, the draft law we are discussing is an obligation for our country as a Member State of the European Union, since - under Article 19 of the directive, which is, of course, a recast of an earlier directive - there is an obligation for Member States to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the provisions of that directive. It is particularly important to preserve the cultural heritage of the Member States, which is an integral part of their identity, as it is an expression of artistic creation and reflects the historical path and cultural character of each people. In particular, considering the dimensions of the illicit trafficking in cultural goods, which is often the result of organised crime, even of armed terrorist groups internationally. A characteristic example of the Middle East, which is affected daily by destruction of works and monuments of pan-human heritage, is the interconnection of the smuggling of cultural goods with terrorist financing. This Directive essentially seeks to balance two basic principles set out by the first steps of the European Union concerning the free movement of goods and, on the one hand, the protection of these goods characterised by the Member States as national treasures of historical, artistic and archaeological value. This directive, despite its amendments, has presented problems with its implementation and effectiveness, so that the Member States will resort to the return of their illegally remote cultural goods to other mechanisms provided for by international conventions such as The Hague, UNESCO and so on. So for our country, where the cultural wealth is threatened by the archaocaust and illegal trafficking and export, it is obvious that any regulation that tends to promote more effective protection of its cultural assets, restores the integrity of our cultural heritage and strengthens the legal and institutional arsenal of the return of cultural treasures, is undoubtedly in the right direction. That is why the incorporation of the provisions of the directive is a timely request from our country at all international forums and conferences and also in the assessment reports of the directive, where its shortcomings are stressed. Of course, it is a question - and I would like to refer to that, Minister - of your reference to the question of theft of the Parthenon marbles in the committees. I heard you today. You mentioned the same way that you mentioned the second time in committee - because we have the Minutes - and of course the way in which you spoke the first time is very different. Our claim must be firm and unparalleled. The statements of non-legitimate judicial redress show a sluggishness and insufficient handling on such a critical issue. The statements are made at a time when a positive development, which you know best from us, has taken place in demanding an international dimension. I refer to the unanimous adoption by the plenary of the United Nations General Assembly of the Greek initiative on the decision 'Return or rendering cultural goods in the countries of origin'. You said to the original committee - and I would like to stress it for the Minutes today - that the trends at the moment are not to go into legal proceedings, especially because we risk losing the respective court and if we lose the court, things are difficult. These things cannot be said! Then, at the next meeting, you tried to put the matter on another basis, where you said what you said about today, that a judicial procedure, however strong arguments one might have, always poses the risk of losing the trial. I would mention this precisely so that there is no misinterpretation. However, the sloppyness of the initial statement on such a crucial issue is notable. Ladies and gentlemen, the third recast, therefore, of the directive adapted to Greek legislation, significantly improves the framework for the return of cultural goods. This amendment is made in a more practical direction to protect cultural goods. With regard to certain provisions only, the concept of 'cultural good' is extended to six months from two provided for in the earlier directive on control, the burden of proof for the holder of due diligence is given to national administrations the necessary legal arsenal to deal with and combat one of the most serious forms of modern criminal activity at international level. All this creates a safer framework for the protection of cultural goods. There is, however, a serious question concerning the provisions of certain articles which provide for the limitation of the claim for the return of cultural goods, because our country has previously been against the limitation, as the wound of the Parthenon marbles remains open and calls for restoration. I am referring in particular to Articles 7 and 8. That is why we, the Democratic Integration, will vote'residents' in these two articles, as in this article, despite the extension of the relevant limits, the protection granted is not complete and the Member States must clearly see this provision again if we really want to talk about effective protection of cultural goods. For all these reasons, therefore, I mentioned above, the Democratic Consent, considers that this directive is generally in the right direction. It significantly improves the previous one and creates a better framework. That is why we will vote in principle, as will most of the articles, apart from the two that I have mentioned. Regardless of the provisions of this bill, however, today's debate gives us the opportunity to once again call upon us to open up a permanent and fruitful dialogue on culture so as to address the problems. To exploit its unique capacity to unite rather than divide and a lot needs to be done. To assess its potential, to be a strong pillar of economic development for our country and to draw up a strategy for culture in this context. Finally, I would also like to refer to an amendment and ask you, Minister, to explain to us. In a late amendment tabled it is stated that a decision of the Minister for Culture and Sport is required to carry out works in preached monuments financed by national resources or other international organisations, which are financed by bodies other than the services of the Ministry of Culture, and that a decision of the Minister for Culture and Sport is issued on the basis of an opinion by the relevant Council. This is the Central Archaeological Council or the Central Council of New Monuments. The adoption of this Ministerial Decision is a prerequisite for the admissibility of a proposal by the project promoter to integrate any work into an operational programme’. Why 'consultation' rather than 'consultation'?’. We have seen this repetition. There has been an issue so far in bills of other Ministers. To the Minister of State, where we raised this matter with the National Broadcasting Council, as you remember very well, we called for there to be a 'concordance'. He changed it and brought'reasoned opinion' that says nothing. Actually, it's like he didn't have it. Also, this particular issue was with Mr. Dritsa in the previous period. It is the Minister's decision that is actually and you are simply taking the view. Why do you not - and we propose that you put the word 'consent' on this particular point as a change? Ladies and gentlemen, culture in the midst of an economic crisis is indeed an important tool for our country, in particular, which has every chance of exploiting it, in order to be able to exploit our cultural heritage and move forward on the basis of the cultural values that we have. We need to develop a modern cultural policy, based on the new circumstances, and this is not the case until now. The harmonization of Community directives, of course, is in the right direction. We in the European Union believe that this harmonisation must be made even faster, that Community directives should be harmonized, so that we can move forward with European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u271	Thank you to Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Incorporation. Mr Kolkalis, the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek legislation is adapted to a specific European directive. When a directive of the European Union contains legal terms - as Mr Theocharopoulos said - provision is necessary in this draft and in the limitations, whether we like it or not. We may disagree with the time of limitation but it is incomprehensible to say that no limitation is provided for in legal texts. Let's get this straight. The draft law is firstly an obligation on Greece as a member of the European Union as, in accordance with Article 19 of Directive 2014/1960, there is an obligation for Member States to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with that Directive. What is this directive about? It concerns the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of a Member State. Basically, the objective of this directive, which is incorporated into this draft law, is to balance the basic principles of the founding Treaty on European Union, on the one hand, the free movement of goods within the European Union and, on the other, the preservation of national treasures of historical, artistic and cultural value. This directive replaced Directive 93/2007 and implemented a system enabling Member States to achieve the return to their territory of cultural goods characterised as national treasures and the establishment of administrative cooperation in the field of cultural goods. To this end, it has made certain specific restrictions, some specific legal provisions. Who are these? Extension of time limits so that Member States have six months, instead of the two months laid down in the previous directive, to carry out checks on whether the good found in another Member State is a national treasure. This intervention is crucial because checking whether it is a national treasure or not is an important issue. Two. Three years instead of one of the years laid down in the previous Community directive to initiate the refund procedure. Use the information system to improve cooperation and exchange information between national administrative authorities. Significant innovative modification - innovation. Indicate the burden of proof to the holder-law in demonstrating due diligence when obtaining the good. In particular, there is provision for the right to compensation for the holder or the lawmaker. Of course, I've heard of good faith and bad faith. He does anything because of the law and the trustee has the right to compensation and the evildoer. Therefore, when the cultural good is returned to its country of origin, he should first prove that he has demonstrated the necessary due diligence when acquiring the good. Article 3. The provisions of the draft law apply to cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of Greece after 1 January 1993, as well as to requests for the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of other Member States before 1 January 1993. Article 4 defines the cultural and cultural property documentation section of the Management Department of the National Monuments and Documentation Archive as the competent authority - the relevant Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Greek State - for the implementation of this Law and describes its responsibilities in detail. In Article 5, then, there is a particular problem of judicial protection and there is provision for bringing an action against the law-enforcement claiming the return of the cultural good. The exclusive jurisdiction is in the one-sided court and is brought before it in the ordinary course of proceedings. The requesting Member is also allowed to raise an application for interim measures, since he will, of course, also demonstrate the conditions of the Insurance Measures Act. Subsequently, Article 6 provides that the competent authority of the Greek State shall without delay inform the central authority of the Member State to which the application is addressed that the action or application for interim measures has been brought. Deletion: Delete the relevant right after the expiry of three years from the date on which the competent central authority of the applicant Member State was aware of the place where the cultural good was situated. In any event, the claim shall be waived after the resignation of thirty years from the date on which the cultural asset was unlawfully removed from the territory of the applicant Member State. In Article 8, the single court has now established a reasonable remuneration in favour of the prefecture, depending on the circumstances, provided, of course, that the lawyer is obliged to prove that he has shown due diligence and attention when obtaining the good. In order to verify this procedural procedure, this directive and the legislator now incorporating it has indicated that all the acquisition conditions, in particular documentation relating to the origin of the goods, are taken into account, the export licences required, the nature of the parties, the amount paid and any information. Ultimately, in any event, the payment of compensation for the lawmaker is a condition for the return of the cultural good. Article 9 also stipulates that in the event of a voluntary admission, the principal to the cultural good after its return is governed by the law of the applicant Member State, while the owner of the good must pay the relevant costs or expenses to the public, including compensation. To conclude, this draft law incorporates the relevant Community directive, is in the right direction - both political and legal - and we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u273	Thank you Mr Vassilis Kokalis, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mrs Fotini Vakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are today called upon to incorporate the Community directive on the protection of cultural goods into Greek law, in particular the return of those who have been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. This bill also happens to be tragically timely, because we recently witnessed the almost total destruction of ancient Palmyra, a disaster equivalent to a war crime. I will not go into any known conflicts, concerning the use of theoretical terms which are mainly specific, such as whether it is cultural property or cultural heritage, or whether it is cultural property or cultural heritage, or whether it is bipolar - theoretically bipolar - which are produced on each side, with excesses such as in national, international, local and global. The return of stolen, removed by force of goods is the rectification of an injustice and the restoration of dignity. Furthermore, the claim for the return of cultural goods is also dictated by the position that cultural goods should not be treated in the context of a sensitisation of abstract sensitisation, which all these trafficking circuits are riding. An awareness of the social origin of cultural goods and their historical contexts. The Community directive we are about to incorporate amends the better Community law in relation to the protection of goods on the following points: First, the previous directive concerned goods eligible for reimbursement. At present all cultural goods which a Member State considers its heritage may be returned. Secondly, the use of an information system for the internal market that facilitates cooperation and exchange of information in national states is being introduced. Thirdly, the presumption of proof is introduced. The holder of the cultural good must demonstrate the legality of his occupation. The directive is obviously of great importance to Greece, given the existence of countless cultural objects that have been embodied in the sculptures of the Parthenon and the antiquity stolen during the Nazi occupation. As far as the latter are concerned, a great deal has been said today. The Ministry has made hard efforts to reclaim them, efforts that are part of the committee set up by the Greek Parliament for German allowances and continues its work and the current parliamentary term. As regards Parthenon's marbles, although the Community directive lays down deadlines for both the illegally removed goods and the limitation of its claim, there is provision in Article 7 for a paragraph under the law of the Member State, even after the seventy-five years, which concerns much of them as well. Allow me, therefore, because a lot has been said about the Parthenon sculptures, to make a few small comments. Obviously, their claim is dictated - and the Minister, Mr Baltas, stressed it - by the anticipation and claim of the restoration of the integrity of a unique cultural whole. However, it is sad. The issue of sculptures cannot be the subject of a micro-political exploitation and should set artificially separate lines between ‘super-patriots’ and ‘national distributors’. No government has put forward a legal claim so far - and I am addressing the New Democracy. This is because the issue of return is a matter for international organisations such as UNESCO. It is not about courtrooms, and most of all private London houses or sponsorships. And for that reason, I have a statement from Mr Tasoula here. Mr. Tasulas himself, at his service at the Ministry of Culture, at a press conference held at the Acropolis Museum along with Mrs. Clooney and her colleagues from the British legal home, addressed by the then government of Samaras, said: "We did not decide to go to trial. We have decided to exhaust the procedure in UNESCO, through the mediation that the international organisation has accepted on the Greek demand for the reunification of the Parthenon sculptures.’ As far as the British side's response to the Athenian fiesta Clooney then is concerned. I'm sorry, but she was very tough. He refused the arbitration procedure of UNESCO, bearing a crucial blow to the case. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Georgios VARIVEOS is occupied by the Presidential Chair.]] To conclude, I would like to refer to some sad events that have taken place during today's debate. In condemning this morning - and quite rightly so, quite rightly - Mr Economou, the representatives of the River have resorted to well-known interpretative patterns, to the theory of the two extremes, which are only about to denouncing the historical struggles, the collective struggles of the Left, equating them either with terrorism or with raw force and all they manage is to give a symphony leaf in right-wing and neonazi structures. We've heard more today. We heard Parthenon's sculptures sculptures go into the same bag, the Pontian Genocide. Even the interpretative shape of history, the shape of Paparigopoulos, was heard. Look, it creates violence many times and the way in which the public speech about history is produced, it also creates the public management of historical memory. When they are echoed in lessons of national selfishness and patriotism, when the freedom to express an opinion is criminalised, then, unfortunately, not only is democracy undermined but history itself degraded and is no longer a decorative science, it is a theological doctrine unfortunately. With regard to the unfortunate intervention of the Parliamentary Representative from Potami for an unrelated bill, on the subject of a bill to be passed - I would like to say the following: Look, when we consider it to be a violation of human rights, the right of a mother to raise her child out of prison, a baby, or when we equate the prisoner's right to study with his release, then I am sorry, but too many concepts have to be reconstructed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u275	Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. After we also condemn the attack on the Member, Mr Economou, and say that such actions have nothing to do with the genuine popular protest, rather than acting as an alibi of repression, I would like to refer to three points. Point one. European Union, capitalism and merchandise. "The world has it "there's a tombstone and we're a secret pride." Such a thing as capitalism and the European Union? Nah, it's not happening! But this is the quintousity of capitalism. It's all goods for sale, for profit. This is where education and health have become a merchandise, will antiquities and cultural goods not become a merchandise? Where will they stop? It was said earlier that the movement of antiquities, archaeological treasures, is the third largest activity. Weapons, drugs and antiquities. And they're amazing now that the 'good-famous lawmakers' who don't know what's going on in the various 'SOTHEBY'S'? We all know that the whole of the goods sold there are from such archaocapilia processes, where millionaires who want to have these goods to see in their living rooms. Because the knit doesn't have the money so she can put it in her own living room. And they can't have them in public archaeological museums to see each other. Of these, therefore, we must not only demand that the change be called for, but we must also compensate them for, because it says - they have not destroyed and taken care of cultural goods. It has been criticised that, look at this is a directive of the European Union and we can also claim the Parthenon's marbles through other channels. But that's not the point. The issue is this particular directive, which logic is behind it and what interests it serves. And the interests he serves are exactly those. Protect antiquities and cultural goods as goods. After all, it says it outside: 'Internal Market Information'. What is happening is done with the internal market assessment system. On these terms. Under market conditions. All evaluated in terms of purchase! They are not cultural goods which have incalculable value and therefore the logic of the market cannot be put in place there. It is the logic of the market and the person who has the money takes it and the person who does not have the money, his problem, as in health, as in education, as in everywhere. Second point. The amendment on the FOD. First of all, we say that this is a positive amendment. It moves in the right direction, because, at least, it gives a way out and says where some of the workers are going to go to the former Occupied Territories. It is, however, a stubborn amendment, because it leaves too many workers outside. And it leaves them out on the basis that, "Look at see, it runs counter to the Constitution, because they were the one-day workers." Based on what? On the basis of the Hunting Ordinance 598/1968. So these people who have been working for twenty and thirty years at the ODP now have no right to go to another job. She's out of her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u277	Who says that? You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u278	I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u279	...their contracts were deemed to have been for an indefinite period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u280	Still, some people stay outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u281	Cases will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u282	If it's decided that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u283	If their cases are dealt with, will you take them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u284	I replied to Mr Carras earlier, but you were not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u285	Yes, sir. Anyway. However, what you said you were going to falsify, no one is asking you to falsify. Because it was what you also complained about when you were opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u286	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u287	Okay. In any case, if you say so, why do you not accept our amendment that says precisely?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u288	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u289	Let me read to you what he says, if you have the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u290	We are talking about contracts of indefinite duration which have either been judged or have not been...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u291	So you're taking all the employees of the former FDI?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u292	No, sir, that's what I'm telling you. Whatever has been judged and what will be judged...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u293	We're saying that all the workers should go to the I.E.L.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u294	You do well, Mr. Colleague, and say what you want. If a contract is deemed to be an indefinite contract governed by private law, then we cannot incorporate them into the supervised bodies. If it is judged in any way - and we said that it is not necessary to be judged only by the courts, it can be judged through the procedures of the AACC - then for these people the road is open, by the legislation we have made, to be professionally restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u295	I know - here I have some evidence, tell me if it's right - that of the sixty-three who went and were vindicated and at the ADP and at the court of appeal, you will only get sixteen, while the forty-seven will stay outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u296	It's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u297	Isn't that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u298	I have again answered Mr Theocharopoulos for asking me, Mr Colleague. I was asked by Mrs. Hara Kefalidou in committee, and I had answered her. It is about a hundred and forty those whose contract has been judged to be an indefinite contract or an indefinite contract, be careful! - either it was undercover and with decisions it was considered that this is the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u299	Those who, in other words, have not appealed to the OSCE, are excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u300	You don't want to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u301	I don't want to understand. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u302	You're in a dead end with what you're saying and you don't want to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u303	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u304	Am I in a dead end? I'm asking you. The two hundred workers who have not yet appealed to the OHIM, if they do so, will you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u305	Again. That is the fourth time I have said so, Mr President. Since these contracts are deemed to be contracts of indefinite duration, which are governed by the provisions of private law, then they too...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u306	The day-time contracts are considered to be contracts for indefinite duration?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u307	If there are one-day contracts - every day, twenty, thirty years - and the court judged that there was an indefinite contract, then the worker has the right to join it. How can I tell you differently? Are there any other words?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u308	No, no, I understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u309	I hope you understood this the fourth time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u310	Okay, I'm a little slow! It's okay, I'll find out slowly. I now come to what the Ministry of Culture is doing here by privatising the work. Let's be honest. Because there is subsistence and subsistence, what you want to do with them here is to give the projects to contractors, NGOs and the various other "friends" and "sensitive" bodies for the management of cultural heritage. That's what you want to do. Because if you wanted to protect these work done by various such bodies, there are Articles 10 and 11 of the archaeological law on maintenance and protection interventions, and Articles 4, 40, 42 and 43, which provide for a satisfactory procedure. So what you really want to do here, because there is just subsidization and underfunding of the Ministry of Culture, is to give these works to private individuals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u311	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, after we have finally reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u312	Yeah. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u313	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u314	I would not give you a second speech, just to say a few words because I was caused by Mr Theocharopoulos, but also by what Mr Tassos said earlier. With regard to two points raised by Mr Tassos, I will give very simple explanations: One thing is - because I am now learning the law because I have been in this position - that the notion of a well-founded legislator is a recent conquest. And I will do a parable, if you please, to clarify the meaning. In addition to capitalism, the reality that it expresses and so on, there is also a relative autonomy of concepts, what concepts, which refer to, how they relate to each other, etc. When we first say market, there are many meanings. It is the people's market too. So, it's not just the stock market, etc., it's the popular market, the supermarket and all that. So the example is that. If you go to a supermarket and buy something, let's say, a soap and you get it home and then someone finds that soap illegally took the supermarket, for some reason of smuggling or another, you who bought the soap from the supermarket are a good-faithed nomad. If you are not a trustworthy nomad, that is, you had taken the soap in order to resale it as a soap smuggler, then you would be a bad-faithed nomad. That's the distinction. From there on, the market in the broad sense is a market for bread, cheese, the market for cultural goods, the arms market, etc. In the context of this vast market, there is also the market for cultural goods, whether legal or illegal. There is an archaocaust, smuggling in relation to ancient times. The recent catastrophes in Palmyra just confirm that, that is, they are gathered before the for sale and that some are destroyed to create items for sale and through this process, ISIS buys weapons and so on. That is where the issue of archaocapilia is linked with weapons, imperialism, wars and so on. This directive cannot enter into all these matters. He's getting into something that's too small. That is why her debate would normally have to end in an hour at most, both in the Committee on Forums and in the plenary. Because what is this directive doing? First of all, he talks about 1993. Given that Parthenon's sculptures left Greece before 1993, when we discussed the issue in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, we did not mention the Parthenon sculptures at all. It is quite well that someone in the debate there asked: 'All this, but what about the return of the Parthenon marbles, the sculptors?' "Hellenicity" said it, and so I got carried away, as we all got carried away. And that is where I explained, at the level of good faith in a side-effect on the directive, where we are in this connection. That's where I expected this to end. Mr. Tasoulas came out the next day and took me as a national broker. A New Democracy component. Mr. Javarras came out the aftermath and said I was right. Mr. Fortsakis came here today and made a reference to these very good faiths. And what he said about my directive cover me and work together to see how we go further. Mrs Papakostas came - another component of the New Democracy - and put another type of issues like Parthenon's marbles to be stolen the other day. We do not claim the directive. This directive was passed by the New Democracy. We continue its policy. We accept what Mr Fortsakis said about the further extension of these things....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u315	And Mr. Venizelos, who won't vote for articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u316	Mr Venizelos, despite his usual ostrich, found nothing against the Minister of Culture. So, in this sense, the whole debate could have ended in an hour cumulatively. Instead, because there is politics and micropolitics, some have found the opportunity in something that is neutral, small, etc., to start a useless story about whether it is ironic or not to be called elephance, whether they are pieces or sculptures or simply marbles, etc., forgetting the gentleman, that, in fact, there is a national policy in relation to integrity, I repeat - that is the key word in our day - of the Parthenon monument. The second - and equally important - is that the Parthenon is not just a national heritage. It is a world heritage and it is one or two monuments of the world heritage. The UN indirectly but clearly admitted this. In this sense, the weapons are strengthened, for the integrity of the Parthenon is the responsibility of mankind now. It is not the responsibility of a court in The Hague or Strasbourg. This is the position with regard to the legal claim here and now. From there on, I repeat once again that I have never said to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, this morning, to radios and wherever you want to do so - that we are dismissing legal claims. Mr. put it again, creating a substantial micro-policy debate again. If it hadn't been for that, I wouldn't have taken the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u317	MEP Ms Olga Kefalayannis seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for Thursday 17 December 2015 and Friday 18 December 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u318	The House approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is hereby concluded: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State’. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u319	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u321	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State’ was accepted in principle by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, the draft law should add to the title 'and other provisions' following the two amendments introduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u323	I didn't hear what you said. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u326	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u327	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u329	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u330	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u331	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u334	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u335	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u336	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u338	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u341	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u344	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u345	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u346	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u350	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u351	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u352	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u353	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u355	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u357	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u358	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u361	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u362	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u364	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 105 and a special number 5, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u365	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u366	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u367	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u368	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u370	The amendment under a general number 105 and a special 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 90 and a special number 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u372	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 90 and a special 3 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u373	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u375	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State’ was accepted in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u376	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u377	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u378	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u379	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u381	The House has given the mandate requested. The Minutes of Friday 16 October 2015 and Wednesday 21 October 2015 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u382	The minutes of Friday 16 October 2015 and Wednesday 21 October 2015 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-16-S1-commons.u383	With the consent of the House at 16.32 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Thursday 17 December 2015 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
