ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please enter the Chamber. We have already expected enough to complete the number. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary session is opened. Before entering the agenda, with my institutional competence and with my Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer from the seat of the House to two historic events, two black anniversaries which were completed yesterday and the day before and which invite Parliament to honour their victims. On 20 July 1974, the Turkish invasion took place on that day in Cyprus and since then the occupation status of the island continues and the violation of the human rights and rights of the Cypriot people as a whole. I urge you today to honour the memory of the poor in the fight for freedom, democracy, independence, national, political and social emancipation and equal coexistence, the dead, the injured, the missing and their families and the honour of expressing as Greek Parliament the support for the struggles of the Cypriot people for the reunification and implementation of international law, with full immunity of human rights, for the resolution of the Cyprus issue with a solution of the bizonal Trans-Community Federation, with political equality and equal treatment, within the framework of the United Nations resolutions, for a State with a sovereignty, a citizenship and an international personality, and also to consider the responsibilities of the Greek State and the Greek Parliament to contribute to serving the rights of the peoples, Greek and Cypriot as a whole, for justice and truth in relation to the events of those black days. Yesterday there was another black anniversary. Fifty years were completed by the assassination of Sotiris Petroula, the student of ASE murdered in the corner of Stadium and Edward Lo, when the motor-powered "airs" of the City Police attempted a violent break-up of the great protest against the palace coup to overthrow the elected government of the Association of Georgios Papandreou. Sotiris Petrolas is a historic symbol of the struggles for democracy, national independence and freedom, of the student movement for reform of education with 15% demand for democratisation in public life and universities, for justice, for national independence and emancipation. Sotiris Petroulas was a man, a young, laughable child who made an act of self-sacrificing the requirements of the Charter of the National Student Union of Greece, founded in 1963 just before the assassination of Gregory Labraki, the MP of the EESC - that the young man, the student, is a young man, a worker, an intellectual, but also the constitutional requirement of "1-1-4" of Article 114 of the Constitution that today says - as an article 120 of the Constitution - that the maintenance and preservation of the Constitution, faith in the country and democracy are a fundamental obligation of all Greeks who are entitled and are obliged to resist by any means against anyone who attempts to destroy it by force. I call upon you to remember the victims of the Cyprus tragedy, Turkish invasion and occupation, but also in the memory of Sotiris Petroula, who is a lighthouse of democracy and a model of democratic resistance, to keep a minute of silence. [[All Members of this House are being raised and kept in the Chamber for one minute.]] [[Applause]] I would also like to inform you that on Friday, July 24, 2015, at 19.30, a Parliament event will be held in order to honour the completion of forty-one years from the fall of the junta on 23 July 1974 and the restoration of democracy. You will be distributed and invited tomorrow within the day. As President of the House, I consider this anniversary to be a historic story of the House and not to be paralysed under the pretext of savings in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to today's supplementary agenda, the Joint Committees responsible for Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Production and Trade, which met this morning, voted by a majority in favour of the government's proposal to discuss and vote on the draft law in accordance with the urgency procedure. The Conference of Presidents - it is wrong on the agenda, but this was because of the importance of starting the procedure in plenary - decided by a majority to propose in plenary the debate on the bill this evening, 22 July 2015, and according to the 11-member majority of the Conference, with the completion of the 3rd morning, instead of the other proposal for greater discussion and debate and tomorrow, without the urgency procedure, which took six votes. There were two wordings of the'representations' declaration and one abstention from the vote. As provided for in the Rules of Procedure, it is the plenary which decides on the procedure to be followed. The proposal of the Conference of Presidents, taken by a majority, was announced to you. I would like to ask you, for a two-minute period, for anyone who wants to place himself on a point of order for the plenary to decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u2	Nobody wants to. You're on your own!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u3	I would ask that, in Minutes, the anti-parliamentary statements which are being taken by Members should be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u4	Yeah, make us da, beat us, pull out the whip!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u5	The safeguarding of the prestige of the institution is, of course, up to them and those who embody the institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u6	The president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u7	On the other hand, safeguarding the dignity and prestige of each and every one is a privilege of unfavourable or prosperous ones. Is there any objection to the majority proposal of the Conference of Presidents to a debate within this day?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u9	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u10	It is well known and you should announce that we disagree, at least the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, on the urgent procedure. Once this is requested, the House will have to decide. As to whether we're going 3.00 or 5.00, we think it's important after. If the urgent procedure is to be decided, there is no reason why we voted'residents' on the subject of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u11	That was resolved in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u12	But it was urgent to make it clear that we were radically opposed. And on the occasion that you give me the floor, I would like to say that you've gone beyond the previous ones, at all times. The previous ones, at least one day, tabled the bill, the next one came to the committee and the next day to plenary. You once and for all! Not a fast track, something worse: one day a committee, one day a plenary day, by midnight. What can we tell you? Hot congratulations on your democratic sensitivity! I have not heard here 'the coups' that you had from morning till night. Now what are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u13	Mr Pafile, I have informed you - if you have not noticed - that it was by majority the proposal of the Conference for the follow-up to the urgent procedure. I also informed the committees responsible this afternoon of the letter that I sent as President of Parliament, as I have been obliged to do, for this process which, in my view, is destroying democratic function. From there on, the plenary will decide. So you raise objections to urgent procedure. Is there another colleague who'd like to speak? Otherwise, there will be a vote on whether or not the urgency procedure should be followed. It will also be good for the government to take up this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u14	The urgent procedure has been decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u15	This has been resolved in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u16	Mr Dendias and Mrs Sveronini have been asked for the floor. But you are rapporteurs. Anyway, because they're on a point of order... Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Friends have also asked for the floor. I'll give everyone two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u17	I would also like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u18	And Mr. Theocharis. Is there someone else? As far as I can see, it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u19	In the order that has been announced, they will be given the floor. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, I will beg your tolerance and the tolerance of this House to speak at least one minute above the two that you have been kind enough to give me. First of all, the issue of urgency and not of urgency raised by my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, I think it is a matter which has been decided on by the committees and, consequently, this decision commits this sitting as well. I would, however, be happy, ladies and gentlemen, to address you and, above all, to the Government - if the procedural issue, which would be dealt with this evening by the Greek Parliament, was the main issue of whether the current legislation, consisting of the directive and the imported Code of Civil Procedure, was the main topic to be discussed. If we had to discuss it, that is, whether it is urgent or not urgent. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon, during the debate in committee, something quite unprecedented happened. I am surprised that the President-in-Office of the Greek Parliament, Mrs Prokopis Pavlopoulou and the Prime Minister, Mr Alexis Tsipras, gave a letter to the President of the Hellenic Republic, Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulou and to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Alexis Tsipras. According to the contents of the letter submitted by the President of the Greek Parliament, he argues that the legislation, which comes for discussion in the House, does not guarantee compliance with the Constitution, does not shield the democratic functioning of the Greek Republic, and also that the legislation was chosen and imposed by foreign governments. The letter is in the Minutes, at your disposal. With this position, the President of the Greek Parliament - and I must say that her position was very clear - was clearly mentioned in her own institutional obligations, as provided for in Rule 65 of the current Constitution and in Rule 11 of the current Rules of Procedure. Evidently, therefore, the President of the Greek Parliament found - in her own judgement and in the light of the information at her disposal - that there is currently a catastrophe of the Constitution, of the Hellenic Republic and of the imposition of foreign governments at first instance on the government which has the legislative initiative and, in addition to the intention of the Members of the Greek Parliament who are deprived of the free will and of the consciousness of the vote, as the Constitution imposes. Ladies and gentlemen, these things are absolutely unprecedented. I must tell you that they are not just a rule of law, not only in a European state, but also in any state. Here, then, two pounds - thirdly, what is not given - can happen: or these complaints may be withdrawn by the President of Parliament - which I have no idea he intends to do, but in any case it is a matter of her own - or the Government to table a motion of censure against the President of the Greek Parliament and to decide on it by the National Delegation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only possible, but it is even unreasonable, even in these strange and dangerous times, that the State's institutional representative, who is responsible for respecting the provisions of the Constitution and the functioning of the legislative power of the Greek Parliament, which is the expression of popular sovereignty, denounces the Constitution, condemns the frustration of the government's will and of the Members' will, and that is simply to be treated as a selfishness or, in any case, as any expression of opinion. I therefore look forward, firstly, to the Government's position on this, and secondly to the clear position of the parties. Because, someone else what's not given. This situation, as it stands, cannot be ignored, nor can we go forward, nor can we pretend that we are not listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. I put my letter to the President of the Republic and to the Prime Minister on the record, precisely by applying my institutional obligation as President of the Parliament, as stemmed from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Sveruni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. We in the committees objected this morning to the debate on this bill, arguing that it was wrong to come in the form of an emergency such a serious issue, which is the entire Code of Civil Procedure and a hundred articles on banks and restructuring. Although the committees decided this morning, we insist now that the debate should not be held in this way. It is, however, a regular practice, as it appears, when memorial provisions always come in that way, in the form of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u24	I would like to clarify, because there has been no legal inaccuracies said by Mr Nine - I do not want to say whether or not he is used to it, as he has been tempted - that it is not accurate that he commits any decision taken by another House in plenary. Neither the decision of the committees nor the proposal of the Conference commits Parliament. The European Parliament decides, in principle, under the responsibility of the positions. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u25	Madam President, I agree with you that plenary will dominately decide on the procedure. With regard to this procedure, our representative at the Conference of Presidents, Professor Kremastinos, has been drafted with a majority opinion. And that is our view. If the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, was not speaking, we would not take the floor. However, once he has clarified his position and his vote, we too want to say two clarifications so that the House can understand the way in which we considered this process. This morning at the long meeting of the four committees we said that this draft law has no urgency at all. It is a preliminary draft submitted and completed as of December 2014 and the government had all the time to weigh the needs of the country, the problems we have, the negotiators of negotiation and to complete a process with the normal legislative procedure and not the code process. Ladies and gentlemen, from the previous government, it had been clarified that although it was a matter of changing the code, we had chosen the method of the normal legislative procedure so that Parliament could make changes. On the other hand, Madam President, we said that the agreement of 12 July gave room, if the government had any sensitivities, for the last week to begin proceedings, both informal and standard, for a debate which would at least allow us to listen to the operators. That sensitivity has not been demonstrated either. It has come at the last minute and is entangled by this House and entangled by the Members, those who are willing to support the country and to provide our citizens and our homeland with the appropriate guarantees, to accept a procedure that we do not believe, an urgent procedure that is necessary, however. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, we have accepted this procedure and not because we believe it is the most appropriate one. Finally, with regard to the position of Mr Tindemans on what was heard this afternoon at the meeting of committees by the President of Parliament, Madam President, by closing your speech you said that as President of the Greek Parliament you would not legitimise the relevant procedures and that you had given us a thought. Did you mean in this way that you would influence your negative vote, or do you have any other purpose, exercising your duties as President of this House, something to prevent or prevent? You didn't tell us. It remains, however, after your position, a contradiction, which must be resolved by intervention of the Government. The intervention of the Minister of Justice, who started this morning, Madam President, in the view that this draft law does not agree with and yet, without resigning, it has come up with a lot of pressure - and your speech too - to tell us that he has one - two disagreements that will look at them over time and before the entry into force of this code as from 1 January 2016. However, the government as a whole must be placed. It is blurred in a way by the President of this House, and the government is awkward. The government has to take a stand. Does she trust her legislative initiative? It is disapproved by the major institution of the Parliament, by its President. The government must take the floor, and it must do so now, before we begin the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u26	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Loverde, I would remind you that what the Minister of Justice referred to in a clear and unequivocal way - and you have the knowledge and perception to assess it, so as to give me the impression that you are paralyzing it - is that it comes to it because of an emergency situation, under the threat of the consequences of its non-coupling in this process. We all know what these formalities mean to give rise to the impression that you did not make this reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u29	I'll give you the floor. Since you have referred to me as President of the House, I would ask you not to paraphrase, misinterpret and not to falsify what I am saying. They are not the government. Those who are “shocked” by the President of the Parliament are the ones who collaborate in this blackmail, are the ones who speed up the suffocation of the people and blackmail the government precisely with the suffocation and survival of the people. Do not seek vain to poison the public speech or trigger tensions, which you would very much like, but which are absolutely impatient, in the sphere of desire, but not of reality. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u30	I do not want to force my fellow Members or exhaust their patience, because we are discussing a procedural issue. But, Madam President, in your speech you raised two points which I must comment on. First of all, what you said was heard by all the Greek people. They were broadcast from the channel of the Parliament and from all the news releases. And you know - and you ought to know better than the remaining ninety-nine Members - that the legislative initiative in that country is exercised by its government under the Constitution and the laws. The question of the ownership of the programme was raised by many colleagues, as the agreement was signed on 12 July, by Greece, by the Greek Government. Today's concrete legislative initiative is being carried out by the ministers of government. And this morning we had Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Paradigopoulos. Therefore, the transfer of the opponent to others has no meaning, Madam President. It may be politically your opinion. But here are specific ministers who are taking the legislative initiative. It also contains constitutional and political inconsistencies. We have raised it, and we have pointed it out. As far as procedural matters are concerned, we told Mr. Paraskevi this morning that he had the power, if the government had the sensitivity, since 12 July, when it became known that this draft law is prerequisite, to activate the procedures of Parliament's committees last Thursday, Friday, Monday, yesterday, so that at least the bodies can be heard! You didn't have the slightest sensitivity to that! We pointed it out. Nevertheless, the moments are critical and we have a sense of responsibility. That, Madam President, is my last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Paraskevi, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Loverdos makes the honour of me, since the first moment I was in this post a few months ago, referring almost to what I say here and insisting on his point of view, which distorts my words, even after I have corrected it. That is what is happening today. What I have said and I am trying to clarify it at the moment in all the Members of Parliament - because there are not many of those who have been here previously, during the working of the committee - is that I do not have a disagreement with this legislation as a whole. I believe that the political procedural procedure, which is introduced, is a piece of legislation which has proper regulations. I introduce it because I think it should be introduced. I also believe that some of the rules of civil procedure are problematic, and these are some regulations relating to the primary procedure and others concerning enforcement. The fact that, in a legislative text, in a code, which has a thousand articles, I believe that some of them are problematic is neither strange nor rare nor capable of rebutting my positive attitude to the introduction of the Code of Civil Procedure. Our own legislation, which requires the adoption of codes by an article, accepts that we can and should vote on some legislation because we believe that it is right, even if there are some reservations about some of them, as is the case with its own. So I repeat that both scientific and morally and politically I believe that the Code of Civil Procedure should be voted on for the reason, which I said earlier, and I hope that my position will not be distorted for the second time. And for the second reason, I believe that it is being introduced among the prerequisites, that is, in the midst of a state of need, which shows us that voting on a piece of legislation can rescue us from a Grexit, whose adverse consequences will be particularly serious, as you all know, and it will probably be to some extent untreated and untreated. On the contrary, the vote of the Code of Civil Procedure, even with one or two regulations with which my humility does not agree or which does not agree, is something that can be corrected by future legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u33	You didn't say that in the morning, though. Now you've said it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to start with an appeal. The issues that we are discussing today are the last prerequisites for the country to solve the pressing financing problems and to avoid the threat of irresponsible bankruptcy. The issues that we are discussing today as a prerequisite are the last before the application to the ESM is completed in August for the financing of the Greek economy. Therefore, I would ask for greater democratic commitment and greater understanding of the difficult circumstances in which our country and our country are currently living. I would therefore ask all of us - and I am not taking any of this sad, sadly decorative - to lift over easy micro-party momentum and to have a conscience of national responsibility which must hold us all, of a responsibility to the people of honest labour, who are waiting for their retirement, to the people of honest labour, who are waiting for the market to normalise in fuel, medicines and banking operations. And a prerequisite for a fundamental normality to come back to everyday life is to move the contract forward - burdening on many issues - which the Greek Government has agreed to. That is what is at issue today and not the convenience of a general type of micro-party confrontation between us. I must say, Madam President, that we too would like as SYRIZA to have a simpler discussion procedure here. Keep in mind the common communiqué that exists and which sets a date, today, 22 of the month, the Sumit communiqué. No one can easily pass this commitment that the Greek side has agreed with the partners within a framework - I repeat - of extraordinary need. Of course, we could meet yesterday. The bill is submitted from the day before yesterday. And yesterday the committee could meet and today we had a second day to meet. I do not know why this has not been done, and I think that is where you need to give a reply more on behalf of the President. The contents of the bill that we are discussing today, on the part of the Code of Civil Procedure and on the part of the ratification of the European directive, are well known for a long time and, unfortunately, the political situation has brought this to light for a long time. So there is no question of surprise and multipage texts, which the Greek Parliament has not read and is not aware of. Finally, Madam President, realising the peculiar status under which the Greek Parliament is actually legislating today - we are not hiding, but I repeat in a context of exceptional need concerning the real interests of the Greek people and not the micro-party conflicts within the House - I would like to tell you that I take seriously into account and the reply of the President of the Republic to the letter you sent to him, which rejects the procedure you have submitted to him. For all these reasons, for reasons of democratic order and also for reasons of emergency for the Greek people, I believe that the procedure must be completed today in plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u36	Mr Philly, because you asked me a question and we should not miss any suspicions and doubts, that is the bill, which was tabled in just twelve minutes on Monday before Tuesday. There are ninety-seven pages of legal texts, with particular terminology that some may be more familiar with and some may not be familiar with at all. I would remind you that the composition of this House in its majority is made up of new Members, to whom you belong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u37	And you're new.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u38	I am not saying this dishonestly, I say it - for those who laugh - very honorably. It was a great honour to be a new Member of Parliament in the previous period and there is no reproach for that. So the new Members, but also the old ones, must at least read the statutes, at least not repeat the caricature of Minister and MP, Mr Chrysochide, who said months later that he voted for the memorandum without having read it. The ninety-seven-seven pages, of which many are double - that is, two columns of comparative legal content - did seven hours to be reproduced by the competent authorities, i.e. until seven o'clock yesterday. And if one calculates an impossible period of time, i.e. two minutes per page, it takes more than thirty two hours for a simple reading. I believe that this data answers your question why the House did not meet yesterday. The answer is simple. No one could have even diagnosed the contents of the bill. They do not answer the question why Parliament should vote on this content, while it is clear, it is clear that no one has even been able to draw up this legislative proposal. In relation to the President of the Republic's answer, to which you referred and which I do not know how you know, since I received it a moment ago and have not made it public,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u39	From the press.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u40	... she noblely knows that the President of the Republic refuses to inform his counterparts in relation to my letter, inviting me to do so directly. I do not think that is something that can be interpreted further. All I would like to point out is that, clearly, my views are not personal, but are expressed, as are his, in the service and performance of our institutional obligations and duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u41	I've never heard of these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u42	Now, with regard to the urgent procedure you have made a clear position. Mr Theocharis has the floor as a parliamentary representative and, on the government side, Mr Butsi, as Minister, signatories and the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u44	Mr Mitsotakis is now asking for the floor. Is there someone else?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u45	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u46	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, thank you. First of all, there is the question of the suppression procedure. It is not for the procedure to be completed within one day and for the committee to vote and debate in plenary. This is the third time that the government has introduced this innovation of the super-cup, circumventing the Rules of Procedure. It is an issue which has been discussed in the committee and in the Conference of Presidents. We think - and you know it very well - that it is a matter for the government to bear its full responsibility. It cannot bring about a bill which, in his first article, repeats a draft bill of November last year and says that he did not have time to table it in time so that we could discuss it, even in the urgency procedure normally. In fact, the Government could have submitted it on the next or the next date of the agreement. In this case there would also be time for the urgency procedure, and therefore there would be no objections, which you raised in your letter. It is clear - and I think we have also put it as a party and our leader in particular yesterday - that there is disharmony in relations between the Government and the Bureau of Parliament. It is clear that the government must take initiatives to resolve this issue. When we raised these objections or thoughts or exhortations to the government, there was no question of this letter that you sent and made public. This letter, as you know, is not a matter of negotiation or blackmail the way you legislate today? You cannot say that the government is being blackmailed when the Prime Minister was authorised by the board of political leaders! You cannot say that it was negotiated under the state of blackmail when it was authorized to negotiate and signed after Parliament's vote and a strong majority of fifty-five of a Member of Parliament! The Prime Minister took a mandate from the Greek Parliament and executed it and brought the bills. That the government is responsible for bringing them along in this process. Consequently, your letter, much more if you carry out your alleged thoughts of sending it abroad, is a motion of censure against the Government. This letter invokes the Greek Government. And it is not possible for the Greek Government to leave this reproach unanswered without making such actions. The government - and I am waiting for the Minister, Mr. Voutsi - finally take a position! He can't hide behind the problems. Take a stand on this motion of censure, which is also hypocritical! Because if this bill, ladies and gentlemen, were recruited, we would not have had that letter. There are political objections to this bill by the President of Parliament, and that is why he is hiding behind procedures, so that he cannot let the government legislate, as is required by the Constitution and the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. As I have said before, I do not allow anyone or you to misinterpret as President of this House and my institutional role as President of this House and I am saying. It is obvious that you dream of reproach and suggestions of reproach from the beginning of this parliamentary term. At least as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to do you a favor, and I'm telling you that my letter is not reproaching the government. My letter is, of course, reproach to those who are working to destroy democracy in our country and to those who are helping them out of various positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u49	We're not a little embarrassed! Here we go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u50	Watch out, look out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u51	Who are they working on the devastation of democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u52	Who are they? Names!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u53	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u54	What's here? Game? Playground?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u56	I would like the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u57	Mr President-in-Office of Parliament, it goes without saying to us that the absolutely free expression of everyone's opinion in this House is an element which cannot enter into heresy. And everyone, of course, is judged before the people and history, with the weight and the institutional role and responsibility within the framework of the collective responsibility that we express and serve and through which we have come here, representing part of our people. That's self-evident. As also, it goes without saying that we, as a government, observe Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and we respect it even in marginal provisions and in marginal procedures, for which we in the past or may also have our serious objections in the future, in relation to the functioning of the Parliament. However, we are in these procedures. Our government, like everyone in this House, and everyone in here, are elected, we express with our presence and with the legalisation and public debate that is taking place here and with our decisions on popular sovereignty and democracy. No one can say that this government operates in dictation. We're drinking. Some may consider and politically appreciate that we were blackmailing as a government. But a government has the right to conclude, compromise, to bring its setbacks or compromises as a political act, but there is no one either as a person or as a collectivity from the Prime Minister up to all the members of that government and the MPs who legislate in diligently. In that we are very clear. And in this sense we are also judged and judged before the people and history and individual and wholeheartedly. Finally, forty-one years after the fall of the dictatorship, and in particular for several of us that have experienced these stone years, it is clear that there is a collective memory among our people and institutions, in this House, which is alive, is active and is absolutely deterrent of any attempt to destroy democracy and any institutional coup. We're proud of this collective memory, which we're keeping alive here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u59	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u60	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u61	Wait a minute. Mr. Mitsotakis, you are a parliamentary representative. Another parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u62	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u63	It's Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u64	I too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Loverdo, you're rapporteur. You who are calling for urgency have actually contributed to a substantive procedural debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u66	That is the essence, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor, and then Mr. Lagos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u68	Mr Minister, I have listened carefully and I am delighted that you are even late in recognising the ownership of the first Left Memorandum. I am very pleased about that. And I am pleased that you also reject the objections made by the Prime Minister himself about the pressures he has put on extortion for ultimatum. It is important that you clarify this in this Chamber. It is also important, however, to show that it emerges - as other Members have said - a clear disagreement and a different view between the position of your own and the position of the President. Madam President, you will not be addressing this House for those who are working to destroy democracy. And yet, such encouragements or such comments, you cannot make them for Civic Anti-Civilization. Because we are taking on the occasion of a position by Mr. Friend, who has asked for all of us to be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. Mr Philie, I imagine you are not addressing the Members of the New Democracy who, seventy-seven-four, with their votes together with opposition parties, have kept the country in Europe. Let's remind you of this. Because if it were not for the votes of the Opposition, it would not be possible today for the Minister of Finance to negotiate a preventive support line. We have now kept the country in Europe, and we have prevented the worst, which your own policy has caused. And - finally - you're talking about emergencies. Why have we arrived, dear parliamentary representatives, in this situation, to legislate by ultimatum? Why have you lost six months of endless negotiations with the internal components? You have a full responsibility for the fact that we are now coming to legislate in urgent procedure. So if we all want to be honest about our self-criticism, you too must recognise the fact, and you as Members of the Couple and gentlemen of the government, that on your own responsibility the country is faced with ultimatums. And let the President of Parliament finally make it clear how he is sitting on the coup d'état. In any case, Madam President of Parliament, when you speak of motions of censure, be careful not to scratch on the sack of soap because the right to a motion of censure arises from Members and you do not know what to find in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The positions of the President of Parliament have been set out clearly and explicitly. I would ask you to exercise your institutional responsibilities and parliamentary powers as you judge them. I don't limit anyone's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u70	That's what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u71	To threaten six months with a motion of censure, I do not think that it actually gives authority to this threat, which you can implement at any time. It is only in this way that you do not insist on it because, in the end, a lot of questions are being raised. Mr. Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u72	Thank you. We have heard for a long time the so-called disagreements of the opposition parties about the fact of the bill that we are voting on today. Just a week ago, I mentioned and said that in the worst bill that was ever passed by the Greek Parliament, in the resolution of the third memorandum, there was no reaction from any opposition party even for a procedural nature. On the contrary, everyone agreed to this shameful bill. Today we suddenly see all those who are putting their signature wide into the worst measures that have ever been passed in the Greek state, disagree whether the process should be urgent or urgent, whether it should end at 1.00', at 2.00' or at 3.00' in the evening or whether it should be debated tomorrow? That's what's bothered you now. The point is that all of you who now disagree here that all of you who are making the rebels, especially from the opposition parties, when it comes to voting on the bill will all vote. That's the process. What you're doing here is doing it anywhere else because you're waiting for a TV camera to pick you up and show that you're supposedly reacting. When it's time to put your signature on the tombstone of our country, you'll all put it together wide. This is the position of the Golden Dawn. We talked about it a week ago. I'll see you every day. I would also like to turn to a word that the President has said that some people are working on the functioning of democracy in Parliament and in our country. Many Members here, mainly from New Democracy and from PASOK, expressed their voices under 'Who?', 'Who?', 'Tell us who?'. Well, because you don't say it, we'll tell you again "who". It is the former coup d'état of the New Democracy and PASOK with the then Prime Minister Samaras, Charalambos Athanasios, with Nikos Dendias, who closed an entire political party in prison, the third political power of Greece. who didn't hesitate to anything, who with all these blemishes and fake evidence led there. All I'm saying now is there's evidence that you all know, but no one dares whisper because it's in favor and it's in the interest of the Golden Dawn. That's why you're all doing what you haven't seen and heard nothing about. I am sorry to talk about something personal, although the day is critical, but I shall refer to the Greek people know it because they do not know it from elsewhere. Today I, once again as a Member of the Greek Parliament - and I give you this democracy, which you are saying you represent - reincarcerated myself for the second time. After eighteen months I went back to prison after four months of house arrest as the worst criminal. When the Minister, who is here toward me - and I don't know how he can look at me in the eye - voted for a bill two or a half months ago and takes out all the criminals out, gives charitable amendments for everyone, for pre-seasoners, for murderers, for all who have twenty - twenty-five years in prison on their backs and go out in two and a half years, how will you treat me with me and the Members of the Golden Dawn, who will do two and three years in prison without any illegal act? How will you deal with our leader, the Golden Dawn, who, after eighteen months, is under house arrest and can't go out anywhere? You, therefore, have brought all these amendments, you are the ones that are squeezing with the previous coup d'état, and with all the others, in order to re-enter Members of the Greek Parliament elected, as you are - but for us the votes do not count, for us the votes are something different - for the second time, confiscation of two and a half years and three years in prison, after all these illegal votes you have done. So they're working on democracy. And because you don't dare say many names, I told you a few of them, as the Golden Dawn tells you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u73	Is there another colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u74	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u75	Mr Javarra, there is a point of order by means of a document signed by two Members. You are an old Member and you know that. You haven't given me such a document. However, I should like to give you the floor for a minute. Or will you revolt, will you start knocking the benches and leaving because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President, and apologise for the irregularity. You are right, but unfortunately I never expected that as a representative of the Greek people in the Chamber, which exercises popular sovereignty, I would hear this very serious complaint from the President of Parliament, that there are some who are working to destroy democracy in the country. I would therefore ask you, as a representative of the Greek people, to denounce who they are and, if you do not denounce it, I would like you to say here in this House if you would agree with what has been heard just before the previous colleague. It is very serious, and I think you have the seriousness and responsibility that is needed, to see what is at all times not the procedural stake, but the essential thing, which in this case I can assure you is the functioning of the democratic culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Is there another colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u78	I would like the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Loverdos, you have already spoken twice in pleading for urgency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u80	I want to talk to staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u81	Staff? What staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u82	He'll understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Loverdos, I'll give you the floor for a minute and for two minutes to Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u85	We also have a agenda!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u87	Look, Madam President, we raised the issue of urgency. It has become a general political debate here, to tell everyone the views it has. So please, now, get to the vote and get it over with. It should have been a long time ago. It had to be spoken by one of each party, as it is done every time, and not all of this process, which in the end is afflicting everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u88	You see that there is a need for Members to speak, but I, as President, must safeguard that right. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for a minute, and then we'll have the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u89	I won't abuse. Besides, I rarely call on staff. But my argument will be understood. Madam President, perhaps unaware of you, you have referred in an insulting way to a member of Parliament, to a former colleague, and we owe him as a parliamentary group because it belongs to us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u90	Mr Chrysochoidis' personal invoicing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u91	Because they are not here, I think it is appropriate - you are President of this House - not to insult former colleagues who cannot defend themselves. I would ask you, on behalf of our parliamentary group, to withdraw this. And I remind you that, because, as Mr Philis said, this is no time for micro-policy, we showed this good attitude this afternoon, where in the Chamber you were two parties, you were two SYRIZA. But we have looked at getting serious together, defending all the procedures together and not doing micro-policy. I ask you to do this as a parliamentary favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u92	I want the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I would point out to you - and this is what we are ending - that I consider a reproach for the dignity of the Member and the functioning of the parliamentary culture, the parliamentary function and the democratic requirement of the Member's conscience and vote to be expressed by a Member and Minister that he did not read the bill and indeed the memorandum with which he has chained the country. It is not personal, it is institutional and democratic, and of course your objection has been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u94	He's not here to defend himself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u95	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u96	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u97	He's asking why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u98	Let's get the vote done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u99	If you wish, keep the parliamentary order and do not interfere with the procedure. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliacos, has asked for the floor. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u100	Madam President, I would like to say that I am proud, because I am in a Parliament which is made up of geniuses who have studied nine hundred seventeen pages and a thousand eight articles in a few hours and which will be decided on behalf of the Greek people. Congratulations to the genius of the Greek Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u101	Is there another colleague who wants to speak? Oh, no. So we shall vote by raising the hand. Those and those colleagues who are voting in favour of the urgency procedure, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, is defined as 10-hour and in accordance with the proposal of the Conference - the majority proposal - will be shortened in fewer hours to raise their hands. [[Raise the hand of accepting the proposal]] Those and those colleagues who see in following the urgency procedure raise their hands. [[Reflecting not accepting the proposal raises the hand]] Those and those colleagues who say 'PARENT' raise their hands. [[The Member who declares "PARON" raises his hand.]] [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Those and those of us who laugh, do not laugh, because they will be asked why they are laughing. It is clear that the majority of this House decided in favour of the urgent procedure and the proposal for the Conference. This means that we will proceed with the procedure proposed by the majority of the Conference and the plenary has decided and I will give the Chair to the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Alexis Metropoulou, in order to preside over the rest of the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and draft law as a whole: 'Extending measures to implement the law. 4334/2015 (A'80)’. The above bill was identified by the government as urgent, in accordance with Article 76(4) of the Constitution. The competent Permanent Committees for Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, Economic Affairs, Production and Trade and Social Affairs of the House have accepted the designation of the above-mentioned draft as urgent, as set out in Rule 109(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House and have been drafted and examined at a meeting. They submitted their report on 22 July 2015, as set out in paragraph 3 of the above Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Immediately after the bill was entered on the agenda, as provided for in Rules 52(1) and 109 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 109(4), (5) and (6) of the Rules of Procedure, the debate and vote of the bill is closed at a maximum of ten hours. The Conference of Presidents decided by a majority to propose in plenary that the debate be closed at 2.00 a.m. in the morning, so that the sitting would be closed before 3.00 a.m. Apart from the rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives, participate in the first and second debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of our Rules of Procedure. It would therefore be possible to propose to you that we discuss the draft law in principle and on the articles of the Single Act. We propose that speaking times be formulated as follows: The rapporteurs and special speakers should have eight minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, nine minutes, the co-legislative ministers five minutes, the Prime Minister, the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group twenty minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups fifteen minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives eight minutes, any four minutes. Otherwise, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure will apply. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u103	No, no, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Loverdos has the floor. [[Noise in the hall]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u105	During the meeting of the four committees, Mr President, we were discussing how the debate will take place in the light of the experience we had from last week, last Wednesday. I would therefore ask you - and I have thought of this - to observe Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely to prioritise the rapporteurs of the parties and not to break this series by chairmen of parliamentary groups. The Minister or the Ministers will, obviously, propose under the Rules of Procedure. Rule 109 does not prevent the application of Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure, and in this way, Mr President, in substance, the Ministers will of course be recommended, the parties will be expressed and the whole matter may then be raised in a major political debate by the parliamentary representatives and by the Presidents of the parties. This has not been observed, resulting in the inconsistency of our rapporteur, Mrs Christophilopoulou, to speak just before the Prime Minister. It is, however, assumed that the rapporteur of each parliamentary group and special speaker speaks of the expert and informs the House of the views of the party which expresses and makes the proposals. This must be preceded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u106	Yes, sir. The two Ministers will precede if they so wish, we will move on to the rapporteurs and speakers. I do not yet have the intentions of the President-in-Office of the Council. Minister Eukleidis Tsakalotos is therefore called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, today I am the Ordebra, the main course is the Minister of Justice for the Code of Conduct. Before I say a few words about the directive, I would like to give you four explanations. Identify first. If the ministers introducing the bills believe it - Mr. Loverdos put it very strongly - in the day before, Mr. Loverdos hung on the Internet the positive women to get a hundred-two votes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u108	You're unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u109	Don't interrupt, you'll get...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u110	And in his fight to be a Caliph in the Caliph's place...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u111	You're wrong. You're a slander and ungodly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u112	Calm down. We didn't start well. Calm down. Mr. Secretary and you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u113	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u115	And in his fight to be a Caliph in the Caliph's place, he should notice...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u116	That's not true. Ask Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u117	Minister, start more calmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u118	Symptom!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Loverdo, if you'd like, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u120	And in his struggle he became a Caliph in the position of Caliph, he should listen to his MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u121	The personal speech, Mr President, is a slander.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u122	In the end, at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u123	Well, at the end of the staff, Mr. Loverdos. The pan-Hellenic is aware of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u124	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u125	Have a seat, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u126	You're the only one who knows that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u127	Just me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u128	Have a seat, Mr. Loverdo, you'll have the floor on staff later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u129	You're ungodly, and you don't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you haven't started me well today. You didn't start well at me. You're the ones who start other times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u131	Can I say something now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u132	Keep going, but I drank. You, Mr. Loverdo, will take the floor on staff after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u133	And while you were trying to become a Caliph in the place of the Caliph, you didn't take care of your ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Chaakato!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u135	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u136	You did not pay attention to your parliamentary representatives, you did not take care of the Members of your group who said that we did not believe in the reduction of wages, we did not believe in the reduction of pensions, we did not believe in any of them, it was a matter of correlation. "We brought things here that we didn't believe, but we did it for the connections." So don't teach the left-wing government any lessons to negotiate. There is a compromise in the negotiations. Don't move your hand! That is what you said, Mr President. Second clarification: The Code of Civil Procedure will begin 1st January. By 1 January 2016 we will have brought the general solution for red loans. There will also be a solution for the first residence, especially of poor people. There is therefore no reason to worry about this. There will be a solution soon and there is no cause for concern, as I said. Thirdly, there is a very great philosophy about why early pensions did not come to this bill or to the previous one, because there was nothing for farmers. I have to tell you that what we brought, we agreed with the institutions. The institutions themselves told us not to bring early pensions at this stage, the institutions themselves said that the expansion of the tax base was through VAT. So, I would ask my dear colleagues and my dear colleagues not to play the role as a 'bug' of people who do not agree - outside Greece and within Greece - with this solution, they want Grexit and publish this philosophy, that a third and fourth package will come. Fourth clarification: I have heard in this Chamber that there was a phase of bad negotiation three, four weeks ago and now there is the stage of good negotiation. I have to tell you that the SYRIZA negotiating team was single. We did collectively and the difficulties we had had had had had nothing to do with who was Minister of Finance, who was the coordinator of the negotiating team. There was a very difficult negotiation in which we faced people who did not want to compromise with policies with different logics, with policies that we were trying to escape from the recession. That's the truth. And those who try to divide SYRIZA with the good and the bad guys, I won't be found in agreement. I will try to explain that we have good and bad arguments for what has been done. And please do not invest in SYRIZA's separation and division, because you will soon be disproved. I have to tell you, with regard to the costs you are telling us, that SYRIZA has not been negotiating for six months, and that is why we have a great deal of bank costs: those who say it - and especially this part - think that before the elections there will be Grexit, let them think that in the election battle they said that with the government of SYRIZA they will throw us away and think about their own responsibility for bank Run and where the banks have arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u137	Politics is his art predicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u138	Do not look elsewhere when you have your own responsibility, when for political reasons you tried to have a win-win, create a bank run, either to lose the election or not to be able to govern if we were to win the elections. The responsibilities are very great, they are recorded and they are very historic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u139	Are we to blame for Grexit? Are we to blame again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u140	After these four clarifications - as I told you the main dish will come with the Minister of Justice - to say a few words about this directive. I explained the technical pieces on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u141	It's our fault you went to Grexit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u142	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u143	Please, Mr. Kutsuko. Minister, go on. Pull over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u144	I think that this directive is part of a greater European intervention for banking union. Apart from this directive we have, there is also the part that is to guarantee the deposit guarantee. And there's the part that's for supervision. There are many things to which we can criticise the overall package as European citizens who are concerned about the European Union's financial and economic policy. For example, it is true that the Rehabilitation Fund does not have the money that could face a systemic crisis. But it is very important to clarify that this is not the case for a bank in Spain, a bank in Greece, a bank in Italy, but this is a general problem if we have a systemic crisis. The same is true of the delay - with the intervention of Germany in particular - that there is no European guarantee of deposits at European level. So this particular directive helps the financial system in Greece, helps depositors to have greater confidence in their deposits? I think we can respond positively to this question. It helps in many ways, because it says that after January 2016, when a bank is problematic, it must have created - and this is the first word of the directive,'recovery' - all these institutions and all these policies to face a future crisis, what it will do in this case, in the other case. There will also be a European authority to ensure that it has indeed taken these measures. At the same time, if there is genuinely a problem with a bank, there will be the definite mechanism that says how a bank goes towards reorganisation, how we start with the shareholders, with the bondholders, and how the depositors and only the deposits that are over 100,000 euros per person and per bank are in the end. That's the process. The attempt is, firstly, that there should not be a regime where a crisis in the financial system would fuel a crisis to a government and that crisis of the government would then go back to the financial system. I have to tell you that this directive starts after 2016. The Greek banks will have been recapitalised by the agreement we will negotiate by then. So there will be no recapitalisation under the directive, but in the process we are following, which will be long before 1 January 2016. I think that depositors can feel more security for their future and that they can look more optimisticly at the financial system in general. Not all the piers have been solved, as I told you at the beginning. It is a good start and I really do not see why a colleague or a fellow Member should vote against this directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for a minute. Next is the Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradisepoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u146	I do not want to go on and I do not want to be particularly interested in what the Minister said, and I was personally involved. However, since it gives me the opportunity, Mr President, to clarify in this House something that has been clarified about two and a half years ago, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the House, when at a meeting dedicated to the Protection of Personal Data and in the presence of the current Minister of the Interior, Mr Voutsis, the President of Parliament, the former President of Parliament, Mr Kaklamanis, Mr Tsoukalis from Djukkalis at the time, and many other colleagues, Mr Papaderiou, President of the Personal Data Protection Authority, has been asked many colleagues in this case about the publication of photographs. Research carried out by the Privacy Authority has reached the conclusion - and this has shown us as a unanimous conclusion of the relevant investigation carried out by that competent authority - that no Minister of the Government at the time had given a similar mandate. The Athens Public Prosecutor had ordered it to be published. And so none of us could intervene in a matter concerning the functioning of justice. That's clear. I don't know why Mr. Chakalotos at a special moment, with a different meaning, at a critical time, remembered this, and he just listened to reasons of opposition, he heard nothing more. And indeed, the opposition stands with a sense of responsibility. I don't know what's wrong with him. Have they looked at him? Since this morning, it tells us that we from Christmas were pushing the bank run, calling the citizens, etc. In particular, we in PASOK do not have a single colleague who has spoken of statements, withdrawals and all that sounded dangerous at some point. Or the Minister - at least as far as I am concerned - has no information, has no excuse, no information, or is trying to bump his parliamentary group into two. In any case, however, I do not allow him, while this House is very well aware of what has happened with that case, to use my name for such micro-political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. It is crucial that moments are avoided by all - and by the ministers - intense personal reports. The Minister for Justice, Mr. Paradise, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u148	Prime Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a clarification. The draft law which I now have the honour of supporting, in addition to the issue of the political procedure with which I shall now deal with and the question of the transposition of the Banking Directive, which Mr Tsakalotos referred to earlier, mentions something important in his explanatory statement. It states that in parallel with the promotion of the Code of Civil Procedure, the Government intends to bring the House to a vote before the new code enters into force and all the arrangements for late loans, including the arrangements for first residence and single residence, as well as for auctions. I would like to clarify that, because the two issues are different. The civil procedure shall have the same arrangements for all cases of enforcement as for property or other objects arising from late loans or housing loans or in any other way. Now, I come to the history of proclaiming the political process on such a crucial issue for Greek institutional and social life. It has already appeared from the beginning of the crisis that there is a particular interest in the institutions, the institutions of the world economy and transnational relations, which was obviously linked to the fact that Europe has been slowly beginning to experience a crisis - already in 2010. The product of the economic crisis is seizures, auctions, bankruptcies. Thus, the whole of Europe began to deal intensively with the issues of bankruptcy and civil procedure. From this intensive employment, of course, our institutional system has not escaped in our case. Since the year 2012 a committee was set up to draw up a new Code of Civil Procedure, which worked intensively, tabled a plan in 2013, which arrived at a debate until 2014, but was not tabled to the House, because the objections were many. The objections were raised by many social actors, but certainly also by experts, lawyers, lawyers, who had documented negative positions for specific articles, namely the Code of Civil Procedure. The current government has announced that it will try to have a different policy on political procedural matters. And right from the outset, in the discussions that began after 20 February between our Government and the Institutions with the so-called "list Varoufakis", it seemed that there was a special interest in the issue of political procedural. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice in the committee, which dealt with this issue in the Brussels Group, immediately placed our main positions and reservations on specific rules of the Code of Civil Procedure. It was about two issues. One theme was the primary process and especially the evidence with witnesses. The second issue was forced execution. Why were we concerned with these two issues? Firstly, because recourse to witnesses to the primary proceedings is a guarantee of essential truth. Generations of law have been revived with knowledge that the self-inspired examination of the witness, reddening when ashamed or lying, is a more reliable process than simply reading documents. That is why our country has considered this important. Secondly, it wanted an execution procedure that adequately ensures the impossible debtors, against whom the auctions are speeding up. The debates in the Brussels Group ended without result. The issues remain open because of the degree of early termination of these work. Thus, we arrived at the period of our country's agreement with the institutions, with the urgent arrangements for obtaining a sponsorship from the European Support Mechanism which took place on 12 July, without having succeeded on our part in affecting through the negotiations the positions of the institutions, which remained based on the previous plan, the so-called 'Double-Thorn Plan', by the name of the Areopagite who chaired that committee. According to the Agreement, the Civil Procedure has again won a position on the prerequisites for the agreement to be finalised and the grants to be followed. It was clear - to those who were aware - how important the functioning of the economy was to the institutions and to safeguard trade and by means of trial and enforcement. So, between issues such as fiscal, pension, insurance in general, labour, that is, between matters of top importance, many of our fellow citizens were curious to raise political trial in a prerequisite for this agreement. What was our reaction when we saw this development? The Ministry of Justice tried to insist on the positions taken by the group in Brussels. Even at the last minute, even after the deal, he wrote, insisting on a different view of witnesses and forced execution. That is why our draft law was tabled on Monday, because by Monday afternoon we expected the institutions' response to our own proposals. At the moment we are faced with the obsession of the institutions. Their last document again insists on the text on which agreement was reached in 2014. They are invoked, in other words, by the long debate that had this agreement as a result in the year 2014. And so, the prerequisite that is required, because it has to comply with the previous agreements, which the country had signed, is alleged to be in the form of the 'lower project'. In its regulations, there are some who seem to be problematic to me both personally and in any case to the legal world of the country and to lawyers who unselfishly and document their objections. Is this capable of determining our attitude in general? Answer me, no! And I am replying, not because, firstly, the Code of Civil Procedure is a multitude text and many articles, which also have other regulations and other innovations, which are useful and are accepted by common consent. They are technical in nature or they do achieve the acceleration of their own. Secondly, because these two problematic issues can, however, continue to seek to regulate them more correctly. How? But first of all, if our country manages to survive in the conditions in which it is found. Because, of course, this was a prerequisite for an agreement which would prevent Grexit. I am convinced by the people responsible that we were not ready to deal with Grexit, that Grexit would mean machines without cash, businesses without raw materials, wages and pensions with purchasing power very low and generally unhappiness. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u149	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much. I must and should - I think - that Parliament and our country should weigh up this data. We are in a state of emergency. I'm in a state of emergency means that I have two problems ahead of me and I have to choose from the two lightest. What other option would we have besides, rather than choosing to vote on a code that has proper regulation with the expectation of correcting the problems in order to save the country from a greater and immediate evil? It's a problem. Look, the other options, what would they be? An alternative was not offered. Personally, as Minister of Justice, what else could I choose as a third solution? Fighting? No, of course not. I had to choose from the two solutions, of course not the worst. That's what's happening right now. And I repeat, the choice to promote the Code of Civil Procedure not only seems to be at this moment to ensure in the country and to us all the possibility and the next day to fight both for codes and for many other things, ensuring minimum conditions for economic and social development, but, in any case, because the institutions' responses to these matters were - at least for the matter of the witnesses that are important - that they cannot accept our positions, because they do not have sufficient time to discuss our objections, this enables us to continue the discussions on the next day. We have arguments. We have countries - and in Europe - which have regulations like those we are asking for. We also have a legislative committee which I will ask for, I would ask, to continue its work. I say this because its members are, in fact, volunteers who spend their own valuable time in order to be able to help the country by shaping better institutions. I would ask them to continue their work, so that other points of the Procedure that are not so interested in the institutions can agree, but on specific issues too, to prepare proposals, which are credible and I hope they will also be effective. We have time, since on the basis of transitional provisions the validity of the Code of Civil Procedure will start on 1 January 2016. By then we'll work intensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Minister. Prime Minister, do you now want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u152	I'll talk later, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u153	I would ask that Mr Socrates Famelos, the rapporteur of SYRIZA, should come to Stepma. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time within a week we have been called into a critical and rapid parliamentary procedure, a procedure which, in fact, in the emergency environment, limits the contractual times of the parliamentary rule, but which we think serves the highest democratic value of the defence of society, the defence of the Greeks and the national sovereignty of our country. Today we are called on to discuss and decide on the second part of the prerequisites in the agreement of 13 July with the institutions. We are called upon to legislate in order to complete the negotiation by this government, which has already proceeded with significant measures that have been brought about by both the financial system in the country and the operation of society and the economy after the capital control imposed by creditors. Thus, we can move on to the release of the new agreement and to the design of our country's new strategy. But we have to make something clear in the first place. Our proposal and our request to the ESM cannot be confused and matched with the agreement of the other parties to previous co-operation in the same direction. Your involvement in our application does not relieve you of the responsibilities of the administration of previous years, because you are responsible for the country's indebtedness, for its bankruptcy and for its compulsory subjection to the Memorandums. You are not entitled to compare forty years of blocism with six months of honest negotiation, because, even if mistakes have been made in this effort, the people know both the history of the country and the past of the country and the credibility of SYRIZA and your political history. Because all that has happened today in the House is done for a purpose, to create impressions and reclaim the chair of power. But we, ladies and gentlemen, are serious and responsible towards the Greek people, and we know that we have already gained something. With the honest negotiation, with the dynamic negotiation we have succeeded in preventing the basic design of Europe's conservative core, the exit of Greece from the euro. We have succeeded in meeting our basic programme commitment that was a solution within the core of the European Union. We claimed a fair solution. We have not achieved a fair solution. We have reached a negative agreement, but it is the only scope for our country's progress. However, we have achieved this through negotiation - and only Alexis Tsipras and the Government alone - by opening up a European debate both on Greece and on the euro and on the future of Europe, a Europe which has become unhospitable in recent years for society, hospitable for bankers, but a Europe which, unfortunately, gives rise to Euroscepticism and bears and extreme right-wing cultures. We have a view in favour of another Europe, and we have tabled it, and we claim it. The reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that we were called upon to conspire - first of all with our conscience - are many. The sovereign, however, is the tampering break of nonstop bankruptcy. We had no right to choose bankruptcy. We had no authority. In addition, we state it publicly: bankruptcy has never been a position and a SYRIZA programme. Each option on the left is one thing: saving the country and protecting society. That is what we have done, because we know very well that bankruptcy will affect the weaker, those who are already affected by the crisis, by poverty and by unemployment. The agreement, however, gives us room for another policy, gives us "where to stand and turn the earth" and gives us evidence that we can use for the benefit of weak populaces. But there is another reason why we have accepted and signed this new agreement, the citizens. The citizens, wherever we go back to Greece, are asking us: Don't leave us alone. Don't let the old rotten political system come back. We trust Alexis Tsipras' honesty. We trust the sincerity of the left government. We do not accept the old intertwined political system in Greece again, those who made Greece "far-west", those who have an economy "Eldorado" only as their idea and view, because they consider the state to be a spoil of their own politics. The lenders put us hard dilemmas in the negotiation. But we know that the Left does not turn back on society and above all does not turn its back on history. He's taking responsibility. And this government has been responsible for six months. We have managed - with errors, with weaknesses, with delays - within the Greek Parliament to have legislation relating to human beings, to restart the economy, for the hundreds of doses, for the humanitarian crisis, for the democratisation of the public sector. All this is society's choices and we as a government simply legislate, expressing representativeness. We have, however, managed, beyond the breaches and reclassifications in Europe, to reintroduce to the debate and sustainability of debt, but also a brave development package, because our aim is not loans, our aim is not our agreement, our aim is for the economy to start again, for Greece to stand on its feet. Our aim is the new Greece, Greece of the future. That is what we want, and we want to end with the agreements and the negotiations, because we have a little bit of a bit of a work to do. That is what the new Greece demands from us. That is what society is demanding. Two issues are being negotiated by this bill: the Code of Civil Procedure and the resolution of the banking system. As far as the Code of Civil Procedure is concerned, I do not think there are any doubts about delays and commitments made by the Minister for this legislative function. But I think it's hypocritical that some people are blaming because we've come to bring the proposal in the last few days. Very simply, because the committees informed the Minister that by last night he was negotiating with the institutions for amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure. So how could something come earlier? Are some people on purpose hypocrites, just for the impressions? Do the changes made to the Code of Civil Procedure allow us to solve all the problems? Unfortunately, no. This statement obliges us to return to the legislative work and to resolve in two main areas the problems that exist, the forced execution but also the oral procedure and the absence of witnesses, which deprives us of transparency and openness from the process of political trial. After all, these are changes that have found us across and across as SYRIZA over the last period. These are the proposals that have been rejected by the referendum of lawyers. They are claims that are timely and which are not syndicate, but are the claims of the dignity of the Greek society. At the same time, I think it is worth mentioning - and we also make a suggestion to the articles - that special procedures, but also temporary judicial protection with insurance measures, are interventions that improve the efficiency of justice. On the question of loans and enforcement - which is our second major opposition to this bill - which includes other issues, such as the ranking table, the restriction of the debtor's rights, but also the strengthening of the creditors' prerogatives - we must firstly say that we have listened with great pleasure to Mr Tsakalotou's commitment that there will be protection of the first residence. I think that as a SYRIZA parliamentary group we should state that, apart from the laws, there are other ways to protect the right of the worker to the first residence, we should be with him where this right is challenged. We know that very well and we will continue to do so. But, Mr Minister, we believe that the legislative committees, as you said, need to be set up quickly, because there are many issues in the administration of justice that need to be resolved. As far as credit institutions are concerned, I would like to say that the impact of the vote on this article will be positive and it is expected to strengthen confidence in the Greek banking system so that the deposits return to the Greek banks. We know that banks are performing critical functions. A possible deficit function creates more general destabilising tendencies. In our country we have repeatedly experienced the paradox of taxpayers paying for the damages of bankers. The solution to this problem is using the directive, which provides that, by own means, the resolution of banks must be resolved first of all. A guarantee from the European Union, but also from the Greek state, is provided for the deposits. We are well aware of the insecurity that Greek citizens have felt, but also the companies with capital control. We think, however, that the vote on this bill today will completely suspend this insecurity and protect the deposits adequately up to EUR 100,000. Furthermore, the new package, the new contract with the ESM, which can give up to 25 billion in the recapitalisation, enables us to clarify that neither in the transitional period nor in the new agreement there is a risk of deposits. I think that here we can decouple fully articles and propaganda that we had in the week of the referendum. Even the FINANCIAL TIMES feared that the deposits of up to 8 000 euros would get tired of 30%. Here, then, is the credibility of the international media, but here is the credibility of our country's Government of Social Rescue. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I believe that there are many issues worthwhile for us, and if we had a choice, we would not propose them. However, this draft law ensures that we have a stable government and a parliamentary function to suspend the negative effects of some of the creditors' proposals. And in other sectors of the economy and society we can expel quite a few carcinomas that have been sitting on the neck of the Greek. The debate today on the frequency bill and yesterday's announcement on corruption cases, which took the path to justice, proves both the will and the ability of this government to change miserable texts. This government can even make it through blackmail, even in dilemmas. The Greek people do not allow us to suffer the flag. But this claim cannot be made by the government alone. It's going to be about society. It will be done with the active citizens and their movements, with the workers, producers and professionals, with the new generation that we must invite as National Representation to stay in Greece. None of this will succeed if we are not united and determined. In this joint effort, we call on you to vote in favour of this bill and to undo whatever his weaknesses every day in Greece, but also in the European institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u157	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, I take the floor to protest about the ban on registration. As soon as you took office of the President-in-Office, you said the rapporteurs would speak, and so on. and any speakers who will be registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u159	And we recorded you first, with Mrs. Kerameau second. We've already recorded you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u160	Does the system have a technical problem? If he has a technical problem, you should have announced and lifted the hands of those who want to be registered. The 'flavoured' process, Mr President, does not honour you. And you know how much I appreciate you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u161	You are badly applauding me, because at the Conference of Presidents we said that if possible, a Member of Parliament who will be designated by each party will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the Conference of Presidents is not entitled to waive articles of the Constitution! The Conference of Presidents is not entitled to waive articles of the Constitution! Okay, Mr. President? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u163	I cannot understand the level of voice and tone. But you had a representative at the Conference of Presidents and I told you what was decided. After all, you are first, if you are given the opportunity to take a round by one of the Members of each party. I would ask Mr Nikolaos Dendias, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the limited time is pluralizing me. I would, however, like to begin by responding to a point of order about legal inaccuracy which was brought to me by the President of this House, regarding the decision on urgency. On the basis of the Constitution, Rule 76(4) and Rule 109(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the decision on urgency, as I have rightly said, is a decision of the committee or committees. Of course, because the House of Commons, with regard to interna corporis, of course has absolute authority, can decide on whatever it wants. But the right thing has been said and it is what I said before. I would also like to protest, Minister, Mr Voutsi, our pleasure at the fact that directly in Parliament you are finally taking up what is a contractual obligation undertaken by the Prime Minister of the country at EuroSummit in Brussels on 12 July 2015, namely the ownership of the programme. I would ask all my fellow SYRIZA colleagues and, starting with the SYRIZA rapporteur, to understand what was said by the Minister, what was signed by the Prime Minister and what is now the commitment of the SYRIZA Government: the ownership, ladies and gentlemen, of the programme which you are introducing to vote on. I therefore call on you to vote on this programme, and I would ask you to vote very much - because it is also beneficial for the end-to-end and for society - to leave these two-track, critical and philosophical against the counterpopulation, the previous government, which is allegedly responsible for the banking system, for the bank run, etc. Apart from being completely inaccurate, you cannot blame someone who predicted the damage that you would bring about for the fact of the prediction. You can't do that. The Samara government anticipated what was going to happen. You don't want to like the look? You don't want to like the process? Let's agree on any of this. But the Samaras government has clearly predicted what is going to happen. Are you blaming her in retrospect, because she rightly predicted that she was responsible for the result that you brought in with your actions? These no longer have any meaning and no meaning. And what we should do - and we as a Qualified Opposition - are absolutely indulging in this regard, and I want to make it clear - is to address the institutional diversion that the letter, which the President of the Parliament sent to the President of the Republic and to the Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not something that can pass easily. Please - and I would ask you, in particular, the Members of the government majority - to read the text of this letter, because I think that this text of the letter is unprecedented for the Greek Parliament - and, of course, for the government - in time. It is unbelievable that the President of Parliament, who is of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, who is responsible for the functioning and protection of the functioning of the parliamentary culture, should ask the President of the Republic and the President of the Government to confess or protest to foreign governments that we are blackmailing, that the government, ladies and gentlemen, decided to blackmail. These things cannot be accepted. I fear that they are completely altering the institutional role not only of the President of the House but of all of us. Such complaints cannot pass without, not just commenting, but an institutional response to the institutional insult, which we have all been accustomed to here. I shall now refer a few moments to the very important piece of legislation, after I ask the Minister Tsakalotos not to change his usual mixed and debated style, which he deserves, and I think he describes it. The denounced speech, Minister, does not take you and does not help us all to support the country in a state of genuine national need. You will find in us, to the extent that our institutional duty allows for cooperation. I would ask you not to continue with the denouncing speech and not to blame the New Democracy for what it has just predicted. I tell you as a friendly request. You're judging. I shall now refer to the issue which concerns you, namely the question of guarantee. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all the Karamanlis government in 2009 with v. 3746 and the Samara government with the n. 4261/2014 had taken concrete measures and created the Guarantee Fund and the Supervisory Authorities. We are not unprepared by this directive, which is positive in its introduction. I would like to ask the Government, in addition to this directive 2014/59, to introduce Directive 2014/49 on the protection of deposits closely, not because the directives magically solve the problems of the banking system - this is not the case - but because they create that institutional framework which will allow the Greek depositor to feel better in this difficult situation, to feel the elementary safeguard, and from that point on, to see how we can recapitalise the banking system, which is necessary for the economy. I would like to remind those colleagues who like 'philipinos' against the banking system, that the banking system, as it stands today, belongs to the Greek people. The Greek people are 62% shareholder of the country's banking system. If you wish, then, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, whatever from the banking system, you have the power to vote and do so. It's nothing but you. You're the banking system in this country. You decide and you are responsible for everything that the banking system does in the country and nobody but you. I shall refer to the question of the Code of Civil Procedure, which has become a great deal of trouble. First of all, I have to say that the lowering committee was not created by the Government of New Democracy and I must say that the then Minister, Mr Athanasios, to whom the conclusion was handed over, was sensitive and we must praise him for that. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr. President, could I have two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u165	Go on, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u166	It could introduce the specific conclusion of the committee in the code process, not to have any debate and we could go through it with our governmental majority in one day, with a process similar to today. He didn't do that. He introduced it as a regular piece of legislation, to discuss every article, every weakness. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Minister, Mr Friday, say that we will be entering a new process to change things again, and so on. That's not how it works. In advanced countries, codes do not change every four days, five days or every four, five months. In France the decision at first is to change the Code of Civil Procedure every hundred and fifty years! So when we are voting today on a code, is it possible and serious to change it again in three months? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have to say this by ending and not making use of your time. Ladies and gentlemen, there are things that the government must bear in mind at the difficult times that lie ahead. Its first obligation is not the ownership of an adjustment or modernisation programme, but the submission of a Greek development plan. The evidence of such a programme is available. There are the red loan instruments at the Ministry of Development. There are the instruments for dealing with the huge issue, Minister, of housing loans. There are the instruments for the ESRB, for which the implementing acts have not come out and which lead to the absorption of EUR 25 billion. I am referring here to this point. We had achieved 4.5 billion in front of us, and one of these so far has not even been absorbed into the euro! Also, there are the logistics legislations, for the overall development of the Greek economy, which the government must make use of in a development plan for the country and on the basis of it to leap, by adapting it to the needs of coexistence with the lenders of the country. What the government is doing today, for six months, has led the country and the economy to a complete inactivity and the only thing to pretend is that it is pressing and just legislating, does not lead to something that is necessary for the country, the people and the treatment of unemployment. This is to achieve the great objective of primary economic development. We have no other way, ladies and gentlemen. And I would ask you very much, despite the difficult situation, to understand that the national and patriotic interest and duty of all of us is beyond the difficulties of the situation. And there is a wide consensus, when we get away from the myopia of the immediate and obvious party interest and we go towards a wider approach. That is absolutely possible. It is perfectly possible on the basis of the new self-awareness you have acquired, painful for the place in the last few days. Let us hope that this self-awareness that you have acquired will be able to provide the basis for building together - with our help, if you wish, which you so far deny - a new proposal with which homeland will come out of the crisis and go ahead. It is not the fate of Greece to be Europe's lasting beggar and any institutions. We could be a rich, developed country, which is a model for others. I would ask you to be the model of our joint effort for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Dendia. Mr. Nikolaos Michalolicus has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, let me say something for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, just a moment to say something for a minute. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Dendas, you are right about Directive 2014/49, except for 2014/59. I personally pledge to bring her as soon as possible. It's just as important, too. We were simply committed to making Directive 2014/59 after 2014/49. But, as you said, she should also come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u171	All right, he'll be here soon, Minister. The President of the Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. [[Applause from the river wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1979 there was a debate in this Chamber. During this discussion, the then official opposition, PASOK, had left. The subject was the accession of Greece to the European Union. At that time, the President of PASOK had denounced that, with Greece joining the European Union, our country will lose its national independence. In fact, he had left the Chamber and the debate. Today, many years later, when discussing the memorandum, with the assignment of national sovereignty, we see that PASOK was right at that time, regardless of whether or not the government then forgot the slogan 'EEC and NATO' and followed another policy. It is clear that today's debate - and indeed the urgency of this - is prerequisite in order to move forward with a new memorandum, the 'first left memorandum', in which the first one will be to be auctioned. It was, of course, announced that it would be the subject of today's debate, the great issue of farmers and their taxation. According to the non paper given to the parties, this debate was postponed for early August. Are we dealing with a procession with Summer Departments and, by choice, MPs, who will pass the bills, the ones that are prerequisites for the memorandum, with which the country's rural world will literally be exterminated? In 1981, when the country entered the European Economic Community, we had almost 100% self-sufficiency in food and in basic production. We had primary production, we had a craftsman, we had industry. All this over the thirty-five years has disappeared and the country has become a secondary production in the economic sector of the country, at the mercy of the intermediaries. We have removed tobacco and import tobacco from the Netherlands. Do they have smokeproofs in the Netherlands and we don't know about it or get them for a penny of some colonies? The same goes for many other agricultural products. In August, therefore, a country, which has been mainly agricultural and livestock farming for three thousand years, will change completely. Within the month of August, the damn month of August. Why August? Is it not because 'every August there are no news' as the journalists say? Is it by chance that August we also had the disaster in Asia Minor, August we also had Attila 2? Consequences of history. Some have decided on the demand of some international lenders - I will call them loan sharks - the change in the nature of our country without any national purpose, without any prospect of detachment for what the country is economical. But we also had a background throughout this story, a background intense. In the document distributed by the President of Parliament earlier, he said that the whole process is being done under the extortion procedure. There have been several protests here. But the Prime Minister himself told the interview he gave the National Radio and Television that he had been blackmailed, referring to the seventeen-hour negotiation with Chancellor Angela Merkel. And on this point - I would like to remind you, from the backgrounds which have not been disproved - the President of the European Council intervened at noon, an accidental person, Polish political Donald Tusk, who is well-known to be a man of the Americans. Because the two states on which American intervention and patronage are based, if you like, in the European Union are Poland and England. Do you remember Donald Tusk? He is the one at the previous summit, addressing Greece, who said "we have against us that we are talking with the enemies of Europe". Who were the enemies of Europe with whom they were discussing? Russia. This was considered by Donald Tusk, who serves American and Polish politics at all, as a sign of Greece's misbehaviour. So Donald Tusk intervened and said, by addressing Angela Merkel and the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras, that you must come out of this Chamber with an agreement. Who is, finally, this Pole who can impose on the so-called sovereign in Europe Germany - why is that a great lie - the imposition of an agreement? He's the American man. And it is no coincidence that the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, then came out, and said the second "thank the Americans", after the "thank the Americans" by Constantine Simitis on the night of the Imales. However, he said other things in an interview with Donald Tusk in the well-known and valid ECONOMIST magazine. In particular, he said: 'I told the Greek Prime Minister' - these are his words - 'and the German Chancellor that if the negotiations are over without result, I am ready to say publicly that Europe is close to the disaster for EUR 2.5 billion'. Did you hear that well, ladies and gentlemen? He didn't say that Greece would be in the disaster. It will be a disaster for Europe. Because an uncomplicated, unscrupulous bankruptcy within the euro area would not only hit Greece. He was going to dismantle stock exchanges all over the world. There would be the losses of many, hundreds of billions of euros. Perhaps even trillions would go to damage if that thing were done. And that was a great weapon in the hands of the Greek Prime Minister, as well as the previous Prime Minister and the previous Prime Minister but no one used it, because nobody wanted to hit "the fist in the knife" and mess with the international capitalist establishment. And so, they sacrifice an entire country for the sake of the memorial, without risking. You are asking for these prerequisites that you are asking us to vote on, for an agreement to be launched, which will cost the Greek people a tax raid - for another 12, for another 15 billion. Where are these billions to be found? I've got a newspaper post here. Nobody pays anyone. Do you know how much dues are in the month of June to the public, to what height is it? It's EUR 78,367 billion. And a people who cannot already owe EUR 78 billion will be able, in the next year, to believe, within the next two - three years, to pay the 14? But what if this new left memorial of 12 or 15 billion fails? We signed a deal. One deal has two parts. If one fails to comply with the conditions, then something else will happen. Do you think the Shoeble's Grexit Basket was thrown out? No, it's archived in Brussels waiting. And because many, with collapse and compassion, have addressed the people, referring to tails at the ATMs, I will report - I did so last time - the policy of the European Central Bank. What he did was illegal, it was an economic murder, an extortion of the Greek people. Since Greece has made its national currency the euro and its national bank, in a way, the European Central Bank, has no right to discontinue liquidity in Greece, only in one case: if its board of directors meets and decides by a 2/3 majority that it must stop liquidity. This has never been done and the Greek Government has never denounced it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would be unfair if I could only charge this situation in SYRIZA for five months. There was a regression. My own view is - I think it was at the forefront of deciding an unnegotiable national policy, which would possibly mean a break, or a break and a compromise. Finally, he chose the compromise. But, I'm sure he's had a mess. He has received the debt of 320 billion euros, which is a loop in the neck of Greece, from which he will not escape, as many memoranda as he will sign. Whatever happens, if the debt problem is not solved, there is no way. I welcome the initiatives, which are mentioned in the press, to seek resources from those who stole the Greek people. Do not ask the poor Greek to pay 23% of the macaroni, when hundreds of billions of euros have been fruited, making roads with five times as much as they had in Europe and many others that have happened. So it is not the responsibility of SYRIZA alone. It is, of course, in the five years of the Memorandum. When 2010 - before entering the memorandum - there were deposits with Greek banks EUR 237 billion, then no one thought about the Greek people and, if you like, about patriotism in order to save and have a national economy. And, of course, in the longer term, there are forty years of post-population and the period of subsidies from the European Economic Community. Here, we don't have to laugh at ears, be good at ourselves. The Greek economy has been systematically destroyed and with considerable conspiracy a large part of the Greek people, who have without question seen all this happening around him and have done nothing. Seeds were destroyed, trees were torn apart, livestock farms were to be destroyed and Europe was to pay. And we have now reached the point that Germany, countries such as the Netherlands, the countries of Northern Europe and that we do not have to destroy what has been the vital force of Hellenism for thousands of years. So there's no other way. When they destroyed production in landfills and took the subsidies, which they ate in provincial street bars, or even petty girdles, all of this would once be paid. And it's time to pay. But the puppys who gave it to us, they wouldn't give it to us for free. They were waiting for us around the corner, and we got to the corner. It's the memorials, it's the total destruction of our national economy. One is the solution. Complaint of the memorials. And one is the way to relive Hellenism proud and free: return to national production. We, as Golden Dawn, refuse to obey the extortionist dilemmas of these laws with the prerequisites and therefore also vote against today's legislative initiative, saying 'no' to the memorandum, return to national sovereignty, return to national production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, and today's measures brought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and those of last week, the prerequisites, are only the advance to start the real negotiations on the agreement after 20 August. These are in no way the whole of the measures. Therefore any comparison with the original Juncker package is misleading. Such is the problem of debt restructuring. These are the same or similar commitments as in 2012. All in all, state debt will increase, despite the improvement of some of its repayment conditions. We are talking about new debts to repay the previous debts. This is 'Lerna Hydra'. Debt servicing conditions are changing, simply because they cannot be implemented as they are. The new budget programme is not milder, as some government is saying. All the programmes had lower targets at first and then escalated. What the government has not achieved a year is not lost but is burdened with the years to come with greater surpluses to be covered. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, before the referendum and after that, you still assure the people's family that there will not be a 'cut' of deposits. Your argument is that Community funding will support domestic banks after the agreement. I wish it were that way and just so simple. But again, you're not telling the truth. You keep lying. The bill requires that individuals be obliged to take part in the rescue of a bank before State or Community aid is provided. What does that mean? It means that not only the shareholders of the banks but also the depositors are obliged to cover up to 8% of the total liabilities before making the State's capital support. So are small depositors surely guaranteed under EUR 100,000? No, we say, it's not, because the amount of the cover is fixed each time by legislation depending on the situation. Can the relevant Deposit and Investment Guarantee Fund, the CEEC, now cover the amounts of small deposits? Can you confirm it today with real evidence? We ask you for a second time about this. If things are as you can confirm, why are the restrictive measures on forward deposits left? You also do not answer clearly and clearly what is going to happen with the OTAs, the hospitals, the universities, the insurance funds for which the Greek people have been imposed. You hide that the state shares paid by taxpayers, the populace, will be depleted. Of course, we say in any case that the state banks in capitalism are not popular property. But you do not respond to what hands will be found on the'red' loans from the people's strata after the planned resolution of domestic banks. It will prove once again that your assurances are without reflection. You're not telling the truth. You are hypocritically lifting the flag of corruption, but you do not see any specific measures for those who have starred at the provocative flight of funds abroad, while a new bleeding of the people's family is being prepared. You are inclined to the cause of corruption, namely the hunt of profit, the competition of groups. Do you maintain the provocative tax exemptions of shipowners and finally who do you think you are mocking? You dare talk about fighting corruption, you who drive the folk family to lose her home for a piece of bread. You who leave unprotectedly all the assets of the debtors, employees and self-employed. You who promote the new, even more unpopular regulations based on the commercial and not the objective value of the properties and open the way for them to be found in the hands of a handful of groups of thousands of people. You who on your face begins - even though you are at the beginning for a semester, after all - to reflect the rot of capitalist barbarism, the one that has been reflected so far in the previous ones. You're talking about modernising the Code of Civil Procedure. The new Code of Civil Procedure is nothing but innocent, as some speakers are trying to present it to the committees as early as this morning. The changes promoted relate both to seizures and to the auctioning of popular housing. They favour a variety of banks and capital. They are not about justice closely but they have a direct and adverse impact on the lives of the working, the people's family. The Code of Civil Procedure regulates the procedure of the political trial. In other words, it contains the arrangements for conducting proceedings relating to disputes between individuals. Today, that disgusting bill that had to be lifted immediately, as the then announcement of the Justice Department of SYRIZA said on 5 December 2014, was turned as magically into another measure of social justice. That's what you fucked up! And, speaking of which, how long will you claim to be aware of no alternative proposal, gentlemen of the government? Aren't you bored of candy that the people have to choose between a monastery that you signed and the Siomple Plan, that is, capitalist Greece of drachma? Of course, the convenient story of the left-wing Prime Minister, who has negotiated hard, has fallen victim to German blackmail, and now the poor will have to implement a hard anti-popular policy with which he does not even agree, serves very well both the ruling class and your European partners and your political pursuits and ambitions. You do not, however, answer these relentless questions. You were ignoring the objectives, the functioning, the agreements of the European Union? Did you not read the public statements in the election and post-elections of your former Minister, Mr Varoufakis, your own asset, as Mr Tsipras called it, about the possibility of pressure by the European Central Bank? Didn't anyone inform you of the Diselblum ultimatum then on January 30, "memorandum or closed banks"? Are you serious? What did you really do to deal with the blackmailers, as you say, all these six months? What was your preparation in the face of the continued departure of deposits and while you were aware of the possibility for the European Central Bank to'saving' the guarantees of domestic banks, to reduce the raising of liquidity by the ELA, to ask for its loans back? Unfortunately for you, life itself answers your attitude and reveals the myth of hard negotiation. It wasn't about the people's interests. It was a negotiation in the enemy camp, so to speak, for the different interests of imperialist centres, monopolistic groups. In particular, these days, during which the government and the other parties are discussing how and who will implement the anti-Fraud Agreement, the new Memorandum, the Communist Party of Greece, broadly opens the debate first of all within the people, the working class on how to fight this agreement, from now on, which fails our people, how to pave the way for us to get rid of all the anti-Fraud Agreements and the Memorandums, how to get rid of the real leaders, from the power of capital and its associations. Especially in these days when the government and the other parties are voting in Parliament on the prerequisites, the implementing laws with the 'fire' measures, we are fighting the battle, our people to reject the extortion of the associations of capitalists - because such is the European Union, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund - to reject the extortion of the Government'remembrance or exit from the euro and state bankruptcy', to reject the theory that it is all a one-way path, that there is no alternative but to defend at any price, at every sacrifice of the capitalist road. This blackmail has been raised many times in previous years and with the first memorandum of Giorgos Papandreou and with the second of the Samaras - Venizelos, and with the third - and medicator - by Mr Tsipras, which is worse because it is added to both of the previous ones. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not get tired of repeating from this step forward that the so-called Greek issue is an area where the opposition of the United States, America and Germany to the hegemony of Europe, as well as the objections of Germany and France, on the next day of these countries and the rest of the Eurozone. These conflicts involve parts of domestic capital, shipowners and industrialists and bankers. Developments in the urban political system reflect and capture all of this complex controversy bucket. An important element of these processes is the division of SYRIZA between the euro flags and the drachma flags. Despite their privileged relationships with different parts of the capital, both sides are undermining the power of monopolies. The Social Democratic leadership of the SYRIZA Government plays a leading role in defrauding our people with the trade of hope and that is why they are now supported by almost all of the bourgeois order. This also includes the process of granting television licences and all that is heard and written right and left by the leader group Tsipras with constant secret meetings, as they write and try to close an agreement with representatives of the media elite, and with an effort to give them debts in a legal way and in the name of the fight against the oligarchs another great mockery will be seen in the next few years, when specifically following the process from what we have been informed and will come to the process of Parliament. Finally, with regard to our criticism and attitude to the other forces within and outside SYRIZA who are currently seeing a national currency as an alternative, we have to tell them once again the following and let them put it well in their minds, let those who still have them get rid of them and do not serve other purposes. As long as the keys to the economy are in the hands of the groups, the sacrifices of the people's needs on the altar of their profits will not stop whatever the national currency is. The return to capitalist Greece of drachma will be paid again by the people's family today, in a different way, of course, such as by increasing inflation, with the black market that will definitely appear, with increases in imported prices, with cheap labour force in order to shield the competitiveness of local monopolies. Capitalist Greece, in whatever currency, is a foreign flag for the people's movement, leaves to the unavoidable the ruling class that oppresses the people, brakes the radicalization of the workers by promoting the illusion of philosophical so-called capitalism. The nationalisation of banks that various people say, namely state banks in capitalism, is not a popular property. As experience has shown in recent years, the majority of the state in its equity composition has not been helpful to the minimum for employees, self-employed professional traders, craftsmen, micro-enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, thankfully for the people there is a solution. It is the way it can be implemented, if our people believe in its power, decide and organise their opposition to overthrow the power of monopolies. It is the path of their socialisation, the socialisation of the concentrated means of production with scientific central economic planning, with labour at the same time popular control everywhere, with the release from the European Union, NATO, unilateral deletion of the debt and the people of real householders at their place. This road illuminates and opens the KKE racing, and on this road we invite every pioneer fighter, every Left, every radical walk with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. You had more time. Mrs. Sveroni isn't here. Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou has the floor. Are you ready, Mr. Hatziti?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u176	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u177	Come on. Then the Minister will take the floor, Mr. Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the rapporteurs today is a little unsatisfactory, because while we have been called upon to discuss something very serious and to recommend amendments - we are supposed - in order to discuss two very important issues in depth, we have finally come today to a clear political debate and not to deal with the technocratic part of this bill at all. You know, as a new Member of Parliament, for six months I have lost my mind. I came from the free economy. I'm a freelance professional, and unfortunately I don't understand why we don't do that. I cannot understand why we as Greek MPs in this Chamber do not fight from morning to night to give a solution to specific issues. I cannot understand why today, while we have all made a difficult decision, there is 'yes' and 'no'. There are the 'no' defenders who say that our country and our people must not follow a European course - respected - and there are the 'yes' defenders who are able to be around 4/5 of this House. And while the four-fifths of this House are supposed to agree on the basic problem - it may be with many problems on the part of the government - that is, the government is doing everything it needs to break this section, but let us overcome it, then I will go through it - while we are defenders of 'yes' and we are the four-fifths of this House, we cannot agree on simple and self-evident. To finish this issue as quickly as possible, to give the clear European course to the place and, beyond that, to resolve our differences. This morning - and that is where I have lost my mind - I see that differences in age are resolved between people who will probably vote the same thing in the end. There are differences in years and we do not come forward, we do what we say as a river for too long, and we risk misunderstanding, ending the issue of Europe, ending the issue of the agreement, lifting the sleeves and entering the real job that the place needs. Minister, we are all aware of what has happened. I guess for some reason we didn't deal with the Code of Civil Procedure as long as we should. While you knew what had to be done, while you and I were with the lawyers, together with the many who made a strike in November, we abstained because there were these wrong articles of the Code of Civil Procedure, instead of the first moment that you took up as Minister to negotiate this part, to negotiate the correction of these articles, you did not do that. You have been delayed, so that we have to accept what the whole legal world has been arguing about. Not as a whole, he certainly did not disagree in overall terms, but he disagreed on some of the key points that these basic points should have already discussed to have negotiated and now not to have to deal with the problem we are facing. Unfortunately, however, this logic has been lost. Why is that reason lost? Simple and self-evident. Because, apparently, we were dealing with the wrong things. The "main dish" that you are, Mr. Paraskefopoulos - because Mr. Tsakalotos said it was the "host" - had, because you knew, to clarify certain specific issues that we did not clarify for many years in Greek society. He had to settle the question of shortening procedures in order to render justice more quickly. The river, from the first moment on, took a stand on it. From the first moment on, the river has been shouting and asking for the reforms. In the context of reforms, this is also the quickest shortening of the process of judiciary. However, yet, once again, we are following certain procedures and voting for a law which, in particular, does not achieve this shortening of the procedure. I will quickly point out two points, and I will be leaving, because at the end of the day the substance of the matter is not the Code of Civil Procedure. It is to agree, move forward and see what we can fix. We will not discuss the question of living witness proof and the proposals we have made as a Potami, even on the question of the use of electronic means - because, in order to get into the process of using electronic means, we will have to reform fully the question of the functioning of the courts - I will support, remain and highlight two points that have been forgotten by the whole House and by all my interlocutors. One is the issue of leases. The leases, Article 1009, as you can see, are likely to be more important than the regulation of red loans. Red loans, ladies and gentlemen, will be regulated because we all agree that the first residence cannot be lost. That's what we all agree on. But under Rule 1009, commercial leases are being stifled in the air, and that is why no one is talking about it. What is provided for in Article 1009? It says that whoever comes in and gets, wins, just say, get in the auction a real estate that's inside a commercial leaser or is in a leasing arrangement, has the right, within a two-month period, to kick off any hirer from that property. I'll repeat it for the second time. If you hire a real estate tomorrow that we're going to vote for this law, whatever investment you've done, whatever a deal you've got in your hands, and the owner of the property loses it because he owes you, it throws you out the one who bought the property, who's successful, who's taken it in the auction within two months. It's what no one's touched. In general, we have said that we are all entering the procedure for the good, in the interests of the state, because we are backing up. Yeah, we'll support. They asked us to. The mistake has been made, we will support, we will vote. However, this cannot be separated from the red loans. It's probably more important. Because red loans, because the banks belong to the Greek people, in some way we will manage them, regulate them and protect the housing of the people. We all agree on that and the three hundred. However, the question of leases has not been raised. A second issue is that local newspapers, the provincial press, are now excluded from the publication of auctions, which was one of its main revenues. And you must not forget that. Here I stop with the Code of Civil Procedure and I will come - I do not see the Minister here - in the 'Orgy', as Mr Tsakalotos says. But the appetizer may also be the main dish. This is how Mr Tsakalotos described himself, that he is the "host" and that the "main dish" is the Code of Civil Procedure. But when we talk about the banks, we cannot just talk about 'host-free'. It is at the moment, perhaps, the question of banks what leads us to this difficult process that we are all going through as MPs, so that we can quickly conclude an agreement in order to move forward in our lives, that our people can move forward in their everyday life without impediments and no problems. What banks need is faith and tranquility, nothing else. We have to understand that banks are not just business. The banks could both today and yesterday and tomorrow, in one day, function properly and support the economy if the world were to regain the faith and tranquility needed to function. The banks are the testimonies. In order to get in the way of filing his money, he should believe that he has them secured, as if he were at home. These six months, 40-50 billion left and went to the pillows, to the houses, to the drawers, to safes, and the ones on their own probably the solution. Once again, we probably do not need to take a measure to restructure the banks. We must achieve through unity, through harmony - and then resolve our differences - calm the world, calm our people. That's what he's asking. In more than 70%, 80% ask for political harmony. That's what he's waiting for. We here forget it. We disagree with heavy statements, smart lines. We disagree with each other, but what's going on outside? There's insecurity. If we resolve the question of insecurity, tomorrow our people will probably return this money. It is certain - it is not possible - that he will return this money, that he holds in his home, in our banks, and we will have a completely different day. The river has proposed a series of reforms from the beginning. Let us look at the reforms, ladies and gentlemen, we are 'yes' defenders of 'yes' should not dynamise the climate. We must end up with the issue of the agreement and gather the sleeves and start working really, what the country needs, the issue of reforms. And if we are to make time and if we run, we can, in fact, save a lot, such as the issue of taxation and the VAT of farmers. If we are entering the reform process, it is very likely that such social groups do not have to be affected and able to protect and save our society and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u179	Thank you. Mrs Sveroni-Hondonassiou has the floor since the Golden Dawn. We aim at 2.15' to start the roll-call vote. Two applications have been submitted - one of the Communist Party of Greece and the other of the Golden Dawn - so until 3.00 p.m. we will have completed the meeting in full. Here, Mrs. Sveroni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. In November 1989, after repeated elections, the world government was formed with Prime Minister at that time a great personality, Xenophon Zolota. Xenophon Zolotas confessed to Pericles Vassilopoulos - journalist and press director of the then Prime Minister - and said to him, when he took up his duties: "I am eighty-six years old, I have written forty books, but I only now begin to understand the deep paths of the country. It is a miracle that this state survives." And because he was in contact with the then leaders of the parties, who were Mr. Mitsotakis, Andreas Papandreou and Charilaos Florakis, said about these faces - the first two I mentioned - who played an important role: "They are good people but their parties have become predators of the state, who spoil it. They have built two parallel party mechanisms substituting the official state. Remember that in five, ten years they will go bankrupt Greece." Xenophon Zolotas spoke in 1989. He also said: "Maybe Europe will save us under the new conditions but with a broken-up and predator state. The private economy will remain unprotected and be destroyed in the stormy competition." I say this to you, ladies and gentlemen, so that the people of New Democracy and the PASOK do not have to say this. In other words, such a personality as Xenophon Zolotas - who was not a politician, was a professor, an economist of international prestige - had seen things since 1989. He is the one who, on January 3, 1990, saved the country from unscrupulous bankruptcy. But he had that possibility of picking up a phone and within three days he either had to find a way to borrow Greece or go to naughty bankruptcy. And then - because he was Zolotas - he addressed to three central bankers, Zac Delor - known to all of us from the "packets" Delor - Mino Zobanaki and the then Governor of the Bank of Greece - to see how important the governors of the Bank of Greece play - Mr. Chalikia and they succeeded and brought the country to its level. These are then human confessions, which could not only be made to this man. It is certain that he spoke to the protagonists themselves. However, the protagonists did not give any meaning, because they had just seen our country, they had seen Greece as a way, a field in which they could play their own games, in which they could allow their party armies to plunder this country. I am telling you, because this is not the first time we have reached the limits of bankruptcy, we have arrived before. Let us not forget - we cannot forget - that many packages have come from Europe, from the porcelain or not, whether we like them or not, so that this place can change its face. Is it accidental that Greece has eventually gone bankrupt but there are some thousands - that is true - not only hundreds - of people who are bound to the chariots of those parties who have ruled this place, not just rich but rich? Is it accidental that our country is poor and has some newly-built Greeks who have never worked, who were simply members of the party, "Gruezians"? It may seem to you that they are trimmed and you want to deal only with numbers and say "we had so much, GDP was so, production was so much". It wasn't anything. It's what Mr. Michael told you. What did he say? That we were a country that was self-sufficient in our own products, and that was how you were in Europe, so you were still negotiating with the partners what is going to happen here in Greece - you managed to produce almost nothing. And all that has been left to you, to keep saying 'heavy industry', is only tourism. But tourism on its own cannot be regarded as a heavy industry. You can't go shopping from LIDL, you can't bring in the top-demand species from the Netherlands, from Belgium, and say that I have the tourism I deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has told us the truth so far. You PASOK who ruled, saying "Let's exist", which in 2010 you said "if the country goes to the rocks", you didn't tell us truths, because we had to make that infamous agreement and that infamous memorandum. New Democracy never told us the truth, the former Prime Minister, former President of the New Democracy. The New Democracy's seat today is constantly and they say, 'You say you will tear the memorials, why didn't you tear them apart?' For the same reason they didn't. But that doesn't mean you have absolved sin, because you didn't tell the truth, and you lied. Eventually, in this place he orchestrates the lie, "the big words." They told us yesterday, told us yesterday, even today. And I'm telling you today, because, Minister, I couldn't understand why you say that we have to sign. That is how our Prime Minister said: 'You know, I negotiated very hard and had to choose this memorandum', the agreement in any case, 'or Grexit-Soible'. He was also “provocative.” [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u181	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u182	So, what did the Prime Minister say here? He says: “Is there any alternative? Tell me the alternative." You know, this is a false copy. Since we do not know, we did not participate in the negotiations, we have no idea what happened, all we do is listen. And we're good at listening and we want to believe. You tell us that you have negotiated too hard and now, because we want to save you, we absolutely have to sign what we were accusing ourselves of, which we invoked for New Democracy and the PASOK. And not only that, but you now come to tell the neo-democratics and followers of PASOK and the River "Come, too, " put back" to sign what I did not do then, so that we can save Greece." Because for the Greeks there will be no question, there will be no Greek in a moment. But you know what I understand? You don't care about the Greek, you only care about the country, because all you want is to rule. In recent years, from 2010 until now, no one has dealt with what is called national issues. Skopje also forgot the issue of Albania and the AEZ and the issue of Turks and what happens with the Turks in Thrace and the 'grey' zones. We are not dealing with anything else, not even with what we are producing, only with whether we have taken it. Did we get the money? When's the dose? We'll take the dose, won't we take the dose? Did we negotiate, right? The Prime Minister admitted that these measures are material. Since, Prime Minister, these measures are essential, how do we see light on the edge of the tunnel? What are the Greeks waiting for? We must admit that it is essential. But from the previous ones we saw and said there'd be growth, we didn't see growth, even though they're comin' for growth. We may live in another country. Because growth I didn't see. If they mean developing some tachypical and some coffee, which is also growing in the midst of some programmes, that is another issue. I'm developing, seeing you in Larissa or in Volos' industrial area, a fugar. Then I'll say that growth really starts. There's nothing here that gives me a chance to say that tomorrow or tomorrow something will happen. To "blow" all Greeks, but if you want to "blow" all of us, first we will "blow" ourselves. It's certain some will say that I am now plundering. But I'm not a politician. I'm not a politician to plunder. I still feel like I'm a lawyer. I still see things a little bit of an idea. If you wish, ladies and gentlemen, to 'blow', then do not vote for the funding of the parties, even for those who have not been elected. Are you only involved in cutting the funding on Golden Dawn? We can resist and stand up. Your funding, all parties, and our wages cut. And tell you why? If my country is poor, if my patriots are poor, they should also be poor Members, they should be poor and the judges should be poor. We cannot compare à la carte and say 'you know, the European Member is rewarded'. The European worker, however, is not like us. The European farmer is not like us. We can't have it whenever and wherever it suits us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u183	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, I will conclude. It was said here that the Code of Civil Procedure had to change, that it also has positive. I agree that she has a positive one too. But even though he is positive, his negatives are very serious and important. I, you know, have become suspicious of these tough lenders who are hard and have nothing to do with friendship. It's just predators, because they can't be cut off for the administration of my country's justice. They don't give a shit! I am ashamed - I tell you the truth, I am ashamed - when I heard Mrs Merkel speaking in her own Parliament and saying to us: 'Do you not regret those pensioners who are conspiring at the ATMs?' I do not understand how they can be concerned about the rapid administration of justice. No, all we care about is banks, because we're living a hard banking system. Nothing else, the banks are fine! From the first packages we got, the banks were restructured here in Greece. For our insurance funds, which we've been giving insurance contributions for so many years, which have been "haired", some people say "you saw with the PSI, you see what debt haircuts?"
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u186	Who paid that debt? We are. We're the workers, our insurance funds, our micro-automators. But, you know, you're not cut, none of you, because none of you had Greek government bonds. These are the people who have suffered. They were also sent by the previous ones, you fed them up, and nothing happened at all. "What you had, Yannis, what I've always had." And now we see that we're in a pervert. Yes, it is better to "bleed" everyone but at some point to believe in the resurrection of the country, the resurrection of the nation and of the nation, because, in fact, there is no future for this place. You are proud of us, you say, to find the European orientation for Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u188	Yes, Mr President, that is all I will say. Ladies and gentlemen, first we will be proud to be Greek and then be European. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u189	Mr President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a great deal of discussion at the beginning of the proceedings in plenary on the procedure. I would like to stress that there is no doubt that the procedure that we are following today and last Wednesday is not a smooth parliamentary procedure, such as it is not normal and the conditions under which the majority of this House consents to this procedure. Of course, it is sometimes better for all the arguments that are heard to be based on the real circumstances that we are experiencing, that they are political arguments and that they are not only based on the letter of procedure but on the substance. The fact is that last Sunday, Monday, on July 12, we have led to a difficult compromise, on the basis of which we are now called in exceptional circumstances, on the two Wednesdays, to legislate. We have led to a difficult compromise, having exhausted every limit and margin of negotiation. We have reached the limits of the Greek economy and the banking system. But at the same time, we have raised the limits of today's Europe, its limits and its tolerances, against the democratic choice of its peoples. The limits of today's Europe, where conservative forces take preservatives and who are determined to sacrifice every reference to its founding values in order to keep it faithfully committed to the harsh doctrine of austerity. In this unfavourable context, we have given the battle six months. There is no doubt that in these six months - and I first admitted it from this Step - we made mistakes. But I would like to say to you, sincerely and from the bottom of the soul, that not only do I regret giving this cruel battle and I and my colleagues, but I am proud that we have fought this battle, that we have lifted up the stature of the Greek people, the stature to reclaim the right of the Greek people and it has been heard at the end of Europe and the world, which has been filled by the paths of the capitals of Europe with Greek flags, which has been heard of this right, which has been resurrected. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I don't regret that, and I know that mistakes don't only make those who don't attempt, only those who don't try. Someone will say yes, but you have been defeated. Indeed, the powers, the connections were surprisingly heterogeneous. But I'm deeply convinced that this race won't be lost. Only the matches that are not given are losers. The games that are given and going to the end, to the end, are struggles that at some point leave fruit and the fruit takes off sprouts. A commentator in a daily newspaper in his column simulated this effort of mys, with the effort of a stubborn man who takes his head against the wall for six months. And he ended up saying that he “slashed his head, but strangely opened cracks on the wall.” Europe, ladies and gentlemen, will not be the same next day. Europe is not the same after July 12th. Of course, the Conservative forces still dominate, which even insist on the prosecuting plans of Greece by the Eurozone, but dialogue has begun, a dialogue on the future of Europe itself and its prospects. Already the abbreviation of leaders, Olad, Rencie's speeches and the upcoming election campaigns in the countries of the European South show expectations and opportunities. I cannot say for sure what the direction will be next. It is a constant battle between the forces of progress and the forces of maintenance, and as I did not know to say with certainty what the end of our battle will be, so I cannot surely say what the conclusion of the battle for the next day and the future of the Eurozone will be, the future of Europe. But it is a battle that has already begun and which the people will play a decisive role. Conservative forces - there is no doubt - have won a tower victory over the Greek Government, against the Greek people, against Greece. However, they know very well that they lost something extremely valuable. The hegemony, their sense of hegemony to European and world public opinion. You are wondering here today about the ownership of the Programme. Whatever you say, this is the great loss of our partners and our lenders. After what happened six months, one cannot claim that the property of this program, its inspiration, belongs to the Greek side. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We may have opted for the compromise, which forces us to implement a programme in which we do not believe and which we will implement, because the choices we have are hard but no longer can give us the property as the previous ones gave it to you, and as the previous ones have gladly accepted it. And that is a substantial difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u191	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u192	Some of you, Mr. Tasouula, are very happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u193	You're making a huge mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u194	Some even said that if the memorial was not there, we should invent it. That's not what we talked about. Your colleagues have said that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But it is not the aim of today's intervention to argue. Because we did make difficult choices - and I personally - but they were difficult choices of responsibility. Of course, all of us today need to redefine the possibilities of intervention in the new data. I don't want to get far and talk about what choices were on the table. I think it's well known. It is known that the alternatives on July 12th were the plan of the German Finance Minister, Mr Soible, that is to say a compromise exit from the euro, but given the possibility of the banking system collapse or losses in the banking system and given that the compromise exit route has a place of sovereignty for the borrower, in order to choose this road smoothly. The other option was the choice of naughty bankruptcy and I think that no one in here could argue that this was an option that could be accepted by any government in this place. It would not be a proud and patriotic option to let the banking system collapse at the same time, not the bankers, but our fellow citizens who have not made their money abroad, have not put them under mattresses but trusted banks - as some of our fellow citizens have previously done with the public bonds that have been "tired", so now those who have chosen the Greek banks, having their livelihood - in one night to lose their deposits. So it could not be a patriotic or proud choice to leave our people - the most popular layers - exposed to such unforeseen suffering. We have therefore chosen a difficult compromise in order to avoid the more extreme plans of Europe's most conservative circles. These are extremist plans at the expense of our people and at the expense of the other peoples of Europe. And, of course, this cruel procedure of claim, unfortunately, does not end here. Immediately after the adoption of the latter - on the basis of the agreement of 12 July - a set of prerequisites for action by the House, we are forced to renegotiate in order to formulate the terms of the next day, the loan contract. And since the outcome of this negotiation will be decisive, I believe that we need these cracks, to which I referred earlier, to use them. We must try to use all possible political and social alliances in Europe to achieve the best possible result. Improving the final text of the agreement for the benefit of the large social majority, which recognises this struggle, which shares our concerns, and in which a majority owes us the possibility of measures which have a direct negative impact on change, improved, countervailed, claimed funds so that they can have the least possible negative impact. However, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to many in the Chamber - from both the Certification and the Elassonian Opposition - claiming that the referendum resulted in a worse agreement than the one we rejected on June 25, the ultimatum of June 25. Those who claim this are either mistaken or misled consciously. I'm the last person I'm gonna look good on reality. However, today with regard to the proposal of 25 June, we have an agreement with a three-year horizon and full coverage of the country's internal and external obligations of EUR 82 to 86 billion. On the contrary, the proposal of June 25, which was rejected by the majority of the Greek people, provided for five-month funding, a five-month extension of the programme until then with a loan amounting to EUR 7 billion, plus EUR 3.6 billion from the International Monetary Fund if its assessment was to be completed in October, plus a promise to increase 2 billion of the indices by the end of the programme in November. However, overall liabilities at the same time amounted to 12.8 billion with an inflow-response structure, i.e. the disbursement obligations preceded. On the contrary, the current agreement gives the necessary time and includes the dynamics to cancel the Grexit risk once and for all in the next period, in order to facilitate the prospect of regaining the confidence of investors and markets, i.e. to facilitate the country's exit to markets. Obviously, it is a prerequisite for that to happen which we want to avoid, that no one else can bring it back to the table, not from here, from our partners. Because some people have not left this idea, this design. And, of course, if there is the impression that it is something that is positive or important to claim it, there is at the table, whoever wants to claim it, discuss it, what it means. But even now, a few days ago, at the meeting of the US Treasury Minister with the German Finance Minister, the same argument was put back on the table, the same idea, the same plan. And I say this because no matter what agreement one concludes, no matter how positive a funding perspective has any prospects of getting the ghost out of the country for five years, if some people will constantly bring it back to you, the ghost will never leave. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement that we are starting to negotiate tomorrow also includes something as important as what has been said so far, perhaps more important: a clear, clear commitment to debt redeployment in order to be sustainable. And it's an important development. So far, what was being discussed was whether this restructuring would take place, the reorganization. Today what is being discussed is not whether it will be done, but what depth will be. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a point. The country's governance, the country's perspective, our debate and our ideological controversy about the country's future cannot be exhausted in negotiation. There are very substantial and important dividing lines between us, ideological and policies, which on critical issues and when the risk is there, it is important that they be sidelined. But not all of our ideological and political separatist lines are being sidelined, but we should show them up and collide for them. Some believe that the role of a left government is limited to negotiating and conflicting with outsiders. However, I have always believed and continued to believe that for all our country's suffering the outsides are not responsible. There are inherent weaknesses in the economy, in the political system, and important dividing lines for which it would be worth conflicting and conflicts that we should do here, both political and ideological and class conflicts. SYRIZA, along with the ANELs, took over the country's rule, promising to change the country. We have undertaken to govern the country, not only to negotiate hard - which we have been doing - but also to counter and end corruption and conflict within the country. We have undertaken to rule the place to put an end to the customer state that has been established in our country for forty years now. We have undertaken governance with the prospect and the expectation to inspire everywhere, wherever we can, transparency, merit and rule of law. I think that this responsibility should not be forgotten, because it is a heavy responsibility. And we must fight and judge whether in battles we will give the battle with the same dynamic and decisive determination, hoping to achieve more. From tomorrow and at the same time as negotiating, we are putting the burden of government policy on four major axes with a view to the country's progressive reconstruction. The first axis is the fight against corruption and interlocutory. Today we have given public consultation of the bill that finally puts an end to the immunity of the interlocutory and introduces a regime of transparency in the broadcasting landscape. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Our aim is to put an end to the European originality of canals with temporary permits for twenty-five years at the expense of the Greek State, but also to enable ERT to become the provider of a digital signal against the current monopoly of "DIGEA". At the same time, we are taking the initiative with immediate actions to hit tax evasion, to fight and fight to strike tax evasion, and I have succeeded in avoiding tax evasion for the huge depositors abroad. And we are starting to open up the vedals of our activities, our actions, so that we can conflict with corruption, with organized crime, and finally let justice breathe and perform its duty, which we have seen in a number of cases lately, to be very happy, I confess. In addition, we are opening up the dialogue to promote important reforms and necessary changes in the political system. We are focusing on promoting targeted actions to support the weakest social groups and, of course, on making direct investment in the country to compensate for the current trends in the economy. Before I finish my speech, I would like to point out this: because in the last few days misinformation and danger with a specific aim to citizens and the government, I would like to state in the most emphatic way from this step that the changes to the Code of Civil Procedure adopted today by Parliament and will apply from 1 January 2016 do not jeopardise the protection of first residence. This morning I met with the Association of Greek Banks. The commitment was clear, clear. After all, in the autumn, the bill on the suspension of first home auctions will come along with the regulation of red loans. Until then, the framework that will apply in practice will be the framework that has been in place so far. There will be no first home auction. The protection of the first residence from this government was, is, is and will be permanent. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] No unemployed, no paid-in-payer, no low-paid and low-retired, no borrower in people's neighborhoods, in poor neighborhoods, in degraded neighborhoods will lose his home. The existence of this government is a constant guarantee of the protection of first residence. Without that guarantee, we do not exist! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And if necessary, we will be present to fight in order to protect our weakest fellow citizens against the crisis. I want to close by referring to the debate that is taking place not in Ethiopia but outside of it, as to whether it has or does not make any sense what the country's governance will be, given that there has been a compromise forcing us to make a tough, difficult adjustment, much more modest than the one we have experienced in recent years, but harder on the basis of the structural reforms that we have signed and which we are calling on us to implement. Some people say, then, that it does not matter whether in this context a government will be SYRIZA and ANELs or the other parties that have ruled the place in previous years. In fact, many times they are similar to the Left's presence in the government as an anguish for chairs and posts. I regret these points. However, I can only comment on it. As far as my code of values is concerned, the presence of the Left in the government is not a pursuit of office. It's a fortress battle for the interests of our people! Fight fort to protect the wronged! Fight fort for the great class conflicts within the country with organized interests! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This battle fortress, as far as I am concerned, does not intend - at least voluntarily - to abandon it! We will not become either cowards or riddles or apologies for losers, because losers are only the fights that have never been given! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The struggles that we have before us will be given with the same battle, the same faith in our forces, the same dignity, and they will be struggles that will be won.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u195	Thank you. Mr Evangelos Meimarakis, President of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u196	Prime Minister, I feel that today there is no need to reply to you, because I feel that you have not addressed us, but to the chosen Members of SYRIZA from the beginning to the end, from the fact that you referred to the beginning in the process until the end of your speech on 'the fortress'. I would like, because I see the President of the House, firstly, to say that there is a reference made by a Prime Minister to the procedure for voting on a bill as urgent, with the President of the House underneath, who sits as a Member and has looked for the billions of what the government is legislating on. Indeed, all these paradoxes we have been living for the first time. I saw that not only did the President of Parliament say what she said - and you felt the need to answer her - but you were already applauded by the President! Put your hands up! [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] Indeed, I would say that the days we live are unprecedented. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why I would like to start by saying that today we are discussing the second bill of prerequisites if you do not understand. Apart from the first one we gave you the authority, it is the second one for the prerequisites agreed by your Government. The fact is that the prerequisites we are discussing today and which we shall be voting on for those who believe in the European course of the country and in the European context are sure to pave the way for the third loan contract, namely the third memorandum, to say this clearly. Of course, after the first bill was passed, we also had the main results, which were the disbursement of EUR 7 billion. So we were right to vote together on the prerequisites. The country's obligations to creditors have been met and the risk of direct bankruptcy and exit from the euro has been removed, although it has not been completely removed and I will refer to it. With what? With the money provided to us by the 'coup d'états', the 'extortionists' and all those to whom we voted in the previous bill, the SYRIZA colleagues said in such flattering words. The second positive result is that the banks have opened up. Even with the known restrictions of capital controls, banks have opened up and a gradual return to normality has been launched. Both these positive results are the contribution made by the New Democracy, the contribution of the two hundred fifty Members of the Greek Parliament and the two hundred and twenty-five of a Member of Parliament to strengthening our negotiating position and our national effort. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And here, let's make something clear so everyone can hear it. There's still dangers. The dangers didn't go away. The risks that have arisen mainly in the past six months on the path you have taken, the dangers that have reached the red by the blackmailing referendum, the risks of bankruptcy, the risks of exit from the euro have not disappeared. I am pleased that you have said so too, even saying that the debate on Grexit is only held by the partners or lenders, as you said, and not from here. I don't know if you're so confident about all of SYRIZA's colleagues, but I have a feeling some people might be seeing it. So these risks may have been removed, but they have not been zeroed. I want to say here, directly and clearly, that there are some colleagues who would really like to leave the euro and say so. I'm taking the hat off to them. I fear, however, that all those who take us out of the euro will do so to stay in the euro. We met this and met it recently. We have seen that you too, Prime Minister, have repudiated it. We must not be american here, not all of us being so gullible and so comfortable and especially Greek citizens, because amnesty is not good. It's not the best part right now. You told us that you were making a very difficult compromise, but you finally went ahead and signed. Did you figure out how much this compromise cost us? Did you consider what would happen if, after 25 January, you went with our policy and what difference would there be if you received the February agreement with the 2 billion? Now, six months after the referendum, what's the cost? Really, what did we get from it? You told us we got dignity. You told us that Europe is starting to change. You're wrong. Europe had already started to change. Europe has moved on to relaxation and we, unfortunately, have not been in it. Europe is moving at a different rate and you are talking to the Greeks about another Europe that we have already discussed in both the European People's Party and the Socialist Party, which we want and which we are seeking to change its structure and institutions. Did you not know that in the German Parliament, the SYRIZA brother party did not vote for the agreement that you brought here and voted together? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So why are you telling us about maintenance, progress, the new one, about the old one, about the left one, the right one? Did you not realize that there is no right-wing and left-hand memorandum, but are there any necessary policies within Europe, precisely so that we can stay there by correcting any mistakes that have been made? Who told you, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a right and left memorandum? Didn't we get that yet? Did we not realize that, if we want to be in the European context and remain in the euro, we have to pursue these policies? So there must be a sense of responsibility, and especially of you who took the country on a development path and plunged it into the recession, to you who took a healthy banking system and closed the banks, to you who brought the country a breath just before bankruptcy. Can I remind you what you were saying in an election? May I remind you that you have reached the Greek citizen's vote? You said you'd cancel the previous memos with a law. Today you propose a new memorandum of particular importance, the third memorandum. Do not slow down that you have received a large loan, because a large loan equals a memorandum, the obligations that will go to the Greek citizen. You argued that the previous government was not negotiating. For months your negotiating team has avoided them, but in the last few days it has experienced the real difficulties. You argued that by recapitalising the banks, money was being given to the banks. Today they are all aware that the recapitalisation was necessary to ensure the systemic stability of banks. You argued that by means of the privatizations of public property and resources would be transferred to the "black" public debt hole. Really, what are you doing today? Do you not do the same since the agreement refers to the sale of assets? You argued that the debt was awkward and it must be cut off. At the level that we all wish to see, I wish it could be zeroed, I would say to you. What are you doing today, though? You sign that the country is committed to fully and in good time to repay its borrowing obligations. You argued that the Thessaloniki Programme is fully costed and today you are introducing other fiscal measures and austerity measures, with what you are bringing us. You argued that the country did not need additional external funding. We are told by Mr Varoufakis that we do not want the money, we need time. What are you doing today? You're going to a loan for which you're being the largest, 82 billion dollars. You said that the proposal of the lenders cannot be accepted and that is why you went to the referendum. Today you are bringing a more painful proposal than the one you went to the referendum. You said you'd tear down OECD toolboxes. What are you doing today? You said the troika was over. Really, did you welcome the troikas today who came to the ministries? [[Applause and laughers from the New Democracy ward]] I am sure you will start talking to them and then you will'suppress' this. Anyway. I, Prime Minister, believe that the elements of a bad agreement can, in fact, keep us within the framework of renegotiation, since the country finds its way. Because without an agreement, we would be out of order and the damage that would have been done would have been too great and we could not find the way to go. That is why the New Democracy agrees with you on a national purpose. We're not voting for the measures. We don't support SYRIZA's government. But we support Greece, we support the country and we vote 'yes' to ensure that our country participates in the euro. We are voting 'yes' to restore the lost confidence which, unfortunately, we have lost through your own actions. We are voting 'yes' in the relationship of confidence that we must have among ourselves the democratic parties in our country. The Prime Minister used the expression 'to conflict'. I use the expression 'to discuss creatively and to conclude where we can agree and where common sense and common sense tell us that this is objective and we must agree'. And we need to learn to talk, we need to learn to consult responsibly and effectively. So I urge you, Prime Minister, to dare recognise what the Antony Samaras government has achieved and build on what we have left you as a serious deposit. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that is why these sacrifices and the efforts of the Greek people cannot be lost. Indeed, they have cost too much. I would like to emphasise and ask you, because you are referring very much to the progress and maintenance and conservative forces of Europe, but also to the country and to the new and old Prime Minister, ultimately what progress is. Can we identify it? Is it just something new or is it something new that is right and which we need to consider depending on how the conditions exist and to adapt it to it? And it means we're rejecting all the old ones? Do we reject our traditions? Do we reject everything that is, in fact, the very broad basis on which we can build? We therefore believe that progress means keeping everything positive from the past and there to build this as well as to adapt it to the new facts and Europe. And I tell you that thank you, God, the Greek civilization has so positively, that foreign peoples and foreign civilizations also have European cultures there. So we're not activists. We don't want to throw away all the old ones. We're not saying it's all about flying. We're saying we can keep some of the old ones. Identify them, ladies and gentlemen. It's not what we've done all these years to fly. It's not a conflict, Prime Minister. It's about dialogue. It's for conversation. Even your rhetoric, I'd say, is really crusade. While you are asking on the one hand to consult, to vote, to work together, on the other hand, you treat us in such a way as to tell us that we are fools to support it. We are not fools, because we support Greece's European path. That is why we are insisting on this and we will continue to insist. Ultimately, your new is older. Let me tell you it's old because you represent something that comes from old. You represent this deep state. You represent all those who don't want entrepreneurship, work in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u197	Who's talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, we are also aware of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u199	We know each other very well! Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u200	We know how they all moved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u201	In decentralized administrations you still have the old ones!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u202	Now you're doing everything you don't know. Now you do what you don't want with them. Now you're emptying them. You're cleared by your Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u203	Gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u204	But you know that the news isn't you and you'll try the new one, if you want, to prove it by your behavior, listening well and quietly to the Chief of Officer's Opposition. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I do not think you disagree that you represent the state, because this is where we have to agree. You put taxes on the private sector, on the productive, on those who work, to sustain a large and inefficient state. That's our big difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u205	You didn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u206	You think that with that state you can apply social policy and just tax all those who produce it in order to support it. It's a big difference to us. Do you want to discuss ideological policies once in the House, to see what our differences are?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u207	We want to!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u208	There must be a debate like this, because here only slogans are thrown away. Do you want to or do you not want the state? We want a more flexible, smaller state, a state that will have an effective role and a final plan. That is what we want, and that is what we are going to do, and that is what we are going to achieve. I have to tell you that the New Democracy looks at the future. He chooses the right path. He chooses the middle road with no extremes, no fanaticism, no screams, no dialogue, consensually composite. We aim at Greece of creation, in Greece of investment, in Greece of labour, social solidarity, social cohesion and a synthetic culture. That is why we are following the path of the social and reform centre that has man as its centre. We are interested in man and we are finally working on a Greek reconstruction plan for our economy. We are preparing the cooperation of the productive forces. We are giving the best mixture of economic and social policies. For all this, we are proud of our history and our future. In this way we will also be addressing the Greek people at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u211	Here, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, I only asked for the floor for half a minute and not for more. Mr President of the New Democracy, you asked me: 'Why did you not get the agreement that you were able to get on 25 January with the EUR 2 billion?' Well, we didn't take her. Why didn't you take her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u213	We've answered you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u214	Why didn't you get her the 2 billion deal? Why didn't you take her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u215	They didn't give it to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u216	They didn't give it to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u217	We all have to admit truths in this place at some point. So if you had the 2 billion deal, why didn't you take it to save us, save the country, go to the credit line...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u218	They didn't give it to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u219	They didn't give you that? Oh, you weren't given!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u220	So you didn't have it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u221	The reality is, there was no deal for 2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u222	Gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u223	The reality is that you were obliged to have 3% surpluses in 2015 that we are today and 4.5% since 2016. Furthermore, the reality is that not only all we have to go forward now would have to be done by you, but also by heavy budgetary measures if it remained the framework of that agreement. That's the truth! You did not leave it because you had the opportunity and some prevented you from going to elections, but the reality is that there was never any possibility of leaving the country's debt memorandum at 180% and with a perspective of 200%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's the reality! And this reality, let us put it together to fight together, so that this debt will cease to be at 180%, to achieve the great national objective of debt restructuring to get out even in the medium to long term of this deep economic crisis. And the last, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u224	Be good to take us to a memorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u225	Come on, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u226	And the last, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u227	Are you talking about Mr. Meimarakis or about Mrs. Konstantopoulou? Who are you addressing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Vice President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u229	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u230	Are you talking about Mr. Maymarakis or the President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u231	Mr Vice-President of Parliament, if you want to take the floor to make an observation, you can take the floor. It's not very kind to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u232	But don't underestimate our intelligence!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u233	I'm not talking to you. I didn't mention to you. If you have anything to say, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u234	You referred to my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u235	You made a report between the new and the old. Look, I am not one of those who believe that the new is what screams 'I am the new', 'I am the new'. Oh, no! Our ideas and differences are very old. Our ideas are judged. But I had a feeling, Mr. Meimarakis, that you didn't belong...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u236	Mr President! He never tells you "Mr. Tsipras".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u237	All right, sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u238	Okay, that's okay. Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u239	He does not lose the President's office if I call him "Mr Majmarakis". It's the president! Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u240	Gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u241	So I was saying - and do not interrupt me, because I will be very brief - that conflicts and ideological differences are old.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u242	It's known!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u243	I had the feeling that even within your resignation there are differences. The so-called ‘left’ has a different concept for the State than the so-called ‘neo-liberal ward’. So I tell you that in the past twenty years neoliberal perception has prevailed both in Europe and on the other side of the Atlantic. This profound neoliberal perception has created appalling inequality. Terrible inequality! It's all the big economists, nobels. These are neither left-wing nor radical progressive. Everybody says it! Admit it, too. It is not the new concept of hard neoliberalism that gives the possibility of surviving those who have the economic potential, while marginalising and putting the vast majority of society at the corner. These perceptions are the perceptions of yesterday, which will die sooner or later, because every society needs a torque to survival, a natural torque to survival. The extreme neoliberal concepts are the concepts of yesterday, Mr President of the New Democracy, not the new one, not tomorrow's perceptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Theodorakis, I apologize again for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u246	Very soon, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u247	Here, Mr. Maymarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, I will be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u249	The President has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u250	First of all, Mr President, I am pleased that you have made these reports. I think that as far as the agreement is concerned, we have already answered you too many times and, if you like, we can talk about it more thoroughly. You know that after the European elections the partners had been discussing and asking for more and more of us, because they saw that the government was moving on to a reform plan, which you do not forget that in 2014 had brought the smile back to the lips of the Greeks and the economy went up. You know that he would run this year with 0.7%, while he would run with a recession of over 3%. In fact, some say 4%. And you know that we both proceeded with the competition for regional airports and for the reforms we have given, why? Because it was precisely because the economy had stabilised, investors who could not appear in 2012 or 2013 and do not appear today as you did. Indeed, we have had higher surpluses, but you forget that we would have an increase of GDP, not a recession. And that, as you know, with the multiplier would be different from what would be the surplus that we had anticipated today. Indeed, you cannot have surpluses with this recession. It can't be done. Where are you going to get them? You don't explain! This, Mr. Chakalotos, who is next to you, will tell you. It is not with this recession that you have had surpluses. So you didn't win anything. You have adapted yourself to this, and we have earned and achieved it. The second point to which you referred. Indeed, because the election of the President of the Republic was approaching, and because we were going to the debate on evaluation and to finish the subject of the memorandum - and the country would have come out of the memorandum - several of you, of course, coming into contact with the foreigners were despising, despising and saying that this government has been deported and leaving and coming. And many of you have told foreigners that, on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic, you will be the government - you yourself have said so - and there have been many meetings, Mr Stathakis, Mr Varoufakis, Mr Milios - and you have told them that you are not listening to the Samara government, we are here. And with an arrogant excess, I'd say, you said so. Indeed, since you could blackmail the President's election, we had - if you like - this disadvantage. While you now have an advantage, I literally do. There is no electoral trial in front of you and you have a useful year long, which we did not have. And I would like to stress, Mr President, that this is why you have thrown us down so that the Greek citizens do not feel the benefits of the sacrifices made in 2013 and 2014 and the government does not complete its mandate by 2016, where it would win again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you have been raped, Mr President. You have led the country to elections and, in my opinion, you have rushed. And not only did you hurry, but you came unprepared. You came unprepared, and while there was e-mail Hardouvelis, this damn e-mail, which you were always yelling about at the time - which didn't reach 1 billion, it wasn't enough - and while you already had the route ready and you were able to agree, you didn't agree. So we have explained why we did not agree. And I can explain to you that unfortunately, the partners did not give to the government at the time, not to mention the outcome of the elections, and they were not in your favour. That's why I told you you were very well treated compared to ours in the last half of 2014. As far as the new and old are concerned. I will tell you, Mr President, that young people and old people are not considered age-old, because I have met many young people with very old minds and many older people with very new minds. It's a good thing you're young and good. And I'm very pleased, and I appreciate that. But let me tell you that the old man is a little different sometimes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, I would like to tell you that you also need to take any advice, if you allow, from the oldest, who have also been cooked at the anonymity of the negotiations. You're not the only one who negotiated. We have been negotiating many times and very difficult. And our problem was that you never recognized them. You always made fun of us from that position down there. We are not copying you, Mr President. I understand what you're going through. And I understand that you're going through a lot more than we do, because you're the ones who conflicted with reality. We are at least more pragmatic, and we could go ahead with the reforms that we believe, and you do not believe them. We believe privatization and we call it. You don't believe them. As many of my colleagues believe the drachma and I accept it, I move. Where I do not bow down is that they are laughing at 'we are going for the euro, but we also have the drachma's project and we are talking about it with Shoeble and the others'. No, Mr. Lapavitsas, Mr. Panagiotis Lafazanis and their govo have the courage and they call it. And the 'no' you have taken to your parliamentary group is not homogeneous. It is not the 'no' of Varoufakis with the 'no' of Lafazanne. And let them understand that more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u251	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u252	No, I am allowed to say it because at least Mr Lafazanis has known him for many years - forty-one years, I would say - while Mr Varoufakis - your creation - I have only known him now. Finally, the new, therefore, always conflicts with the old. The new one also exists in the liberal space and there is in the left space.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u253	I talked about ideas...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u254	Because life is evolving and we need to adapt to the new data, it is enough to be able to adapt without any subsequent steps, because they cost. And they cost the Greek people. And the Greek people no longer have any more money to pay for so that you can do your experiments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u255	Mr Stavros Theodorakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u256	Let me say a sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, Mr Maymarakis, as you say, we have charged the Greek people so much, we have destroyed them, we have not taken the great opportunity you had with 2 billion to solve, we have done so much suffering, can you explain one thing to me? How can the great majority of the Greek people not only support us, continue with this? How can all polls have a double score? You tell me! I guess this wise people understand better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u259	Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the River, has the floor. Come on, Mr President, and excuse us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u260	Is it sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u262	I'll be brief. Besides, I think I've run out of intelligence and the truth is I'm feeling a little suffocating. On the one hand, Mr. Tsipras Europeanist, on the other hand, is Mr. Meimarakis central and I at 2.00 p.m. wonder who I am. [[Applause from the river wing]] I think, Prime Minister, in addition to the applause with Mrs Konstantopoulou, you should give an answer to the Greek Parliament when you will tolerate it as President of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u263	And a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u264	In her letter today, Mrs Konstantopoulou draws lessons from Constitutional Law to the Constitutional President of the Republic and talks about ministers who are forced to legislate and forced to vote. It is an insulting attitude toward all of us, particularly to you, and you should give an answer, Mr President-in-Office. For us it's clear. Mrs Konstantopoulou must come down from her seat, stop her staff from showing her friends and opinions and limit herself to her parliamentary duties. Of course, the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that many Members of the government are fond of radical analogies. We hear them all day telling the channels how sad the measures are and how much they understand the people who do not want them. In other words, they represent the victims of a policy that Alexis Tsipras brought to the country a night. If something needs to be saddened by the people of the government majority, it is the manipulations of the government that have brought the country into a more difficult position than the previous ones have left it. We would say that we all have to leave the election rhetoric, work and stop SYRIZA and ANEL from baptizing the lazyness and inability of an antimony struggle. You dare say some truths to the Greek people, to the Greek society. I have heard you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Tsipras, and I sincerely thought that you would not do so again, and you said today 'I do not believe this'. You're the Prime Minister of the country. Where do you say that? Are you saying to the Greek people who have to "pay the fold", who has to pay the taxes, that they must not do so, that it has no room for this programme to succeed? Is it not an insult to the world, which the President of the Government is currently listening to us, to say that he is being dragged into a programme that he does not believe in? It is another thing to say that we can correct things in this programme, that we can make improvements, and yet the President of the Government has to say that this programme does not believe it. We said yesterday in public that there are things that we can change in your memorandum. We are studying, working, discussing with institutions, and we are finally proposing. We also made a few specific proposals yesterday. That's new patriotism, being useful. So do you too, gentlemen of the government majority and let go of muttering and self-pity. Because, some remind me of the spoiled princes who promised them only feasts, and now suddenly they have to go to the forefront to fight and feel uncomfortable. Your memorial - where we have now arrived - to say what you need to do with your memorandum - needs a lot of work. He wants an effort on the part of the government, he wants a plan and determined people. Everyone, of course, can rip a memorial. We are, however, at the point where you have chosen to implement a programme at the moment. So we get out of the election rhetoric. We tell you, firstly, that we do not enter the civil war of the memorials, what a memorial was better or what a memorial would be better. But we say that it has become a common conscience to the Greek people, that the memorials will not save the country. The country, Mr Tsipras, will be saved by major reforms, major changes. You need to get ready for these big changes, too. The economy is dying and will not be resurrected by slogans. The Capital Control, which you so succumbingly caused, has dissolved everything. After all, the mothers of some of the ministers had foreshadowed it too. Let me make a small speech, because we often talk about the spirit of the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u265	Don't interrupt, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u266	Allow me. It is embarrassing how the Minister reacted when it was revealed that her family a few days before the banks were closed, she withdrew 200 thousand euros. It's embarrassing, because he made a announcement of a thousand ten words, without saying a full answer, perhaps an apology to the Greek people. By the way, I would like to say that since March we have raised an important issue to everyone and not just to the governmental majority. It does not mean a Member of Parliament having his money abroad. And the political world must have its money and take the risk that all the citizens of the country take. There is one question, if all Members - and above all, the Members of the government majority who teach us that we must have confidence in the Greek state - have brought their money into the country. We have to accept that we all have to have the same confidence and there can be no horsebacks of politicians abroad. [[Applause from the river wing]] No more lies, no more escaping. The real and real need is for Greek society at the moment. Don't make fun of the citizens. I have heard today, Mr Tsipras - of course, you do not have, and I believe, time to listen to radio and television all day - your ministers say 'no taxation for farmers, no pension cuts'. But you've decided, but you've agreed and other things you'll bring. Should they continue this mocking? Lies don't give birth to hope. At least when we're not in an election period. Of course, in order to go to the big issue of the economy, you and your ministers cannot say that banks are working when exporting companies - and some ministers know it very well - that is, those who bring money to the country cannot buy raw materials. There are specific complaints in the Ministries. They're asking for approval to pay suppliers 500,000 and they're getting approval for 5,000. How will a country walk around without exports? Private sector employees are forced on holidays, paid against, going into black employment. The redundancies are multiplying day after day. I think, however, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have stopped Genoa from counting the unemployed. And in the state - take care of it, it is very important - repeats the same story: Agomaha society and some ministers - some ministers are constantly recruiting party officials, friends and relatives. "Twelves of new recruits at the Ministry of Defense," said Sunday newspapers, which are friendly to you. And at a time when the country's international image has been crushed, we are learning these days, Mr. Pappa, that you have decided to suspend the operation of nine press offices abroad not to make cuts, but to make your own places. In other words, you decided to move thirty - nine people, sixteen of whom are heads. So we ask: are all those who leave all the offices inadequate? When were they judged? How? By who? And the ones who come are all SYRIZA - ANEL or is there any mistake? Has Mr. Baltas given you manual or will you improvise and will we be in any unforeseen situation? But let's go to the big picture, tell you what we're going to do, tell you what the River will do. We took the lead in saving the country after the divisive referendum and we are proud of it. And we're, if you'd like, and twice as proud - and I'll say it - because a lot of people who weren't with us and were suspicious about the river recognize it. But we continue to warn that the risk of bankruptcy - and the Prime Minister is right about that - the risk of Grexit, namely the Soible plans, is still in the upper drawers and they are waiting for our mistakes. That is why we are telling everyone in the Greek Parliament that what is important is not the inner-party cleansing, it is not the opposition rhetoric, it is not the election speeches, Mr Tsipras, but the stabilisation of the country. I made a reference to Mr Pappa, and I have to give a follow-up, because he has today brought a law on the channels. Our opinion? And you're too late. We have told you since the first speech, that Potami will be together in battle if you are determined to actually clash with the stride and break the triangle that connects money - the banks - politics and media. Everywhere they have to enter rules and everyone has to pay. It is not the time to say details, but just let me have one comment. In law, Mr. Pappa, you say that you will decide how many channels they will be licensed. Why do you? Why not the National Broadcasting Council? Why is it a matter for the Minister concerned to decide how many channels they will broadcast in the country? Is it not a matter of the National Broadcasting Council, an independent authority, as is happening in all the countries of the world? I say this, of course, because it is not a question of restricting the involvement of others and replacing it with another involvement, that is to say, replacing our interests with our own interests. The issue is - and I think we must unite - to fight to end the toys with the wicked who think they can control either the information, public works or the flow of money. To do so, however, this needs clean games and there doesn't have to be a feeling that you're trying to set up your own regime. And I'm afraid that many of your actions testify to the fact that you're going to set up your own regime in the midsts. To conclude, I hear some members of the SYRIZA and ANEL whisper often - and the Prime Minister, as I said before - that the programme is not coming out. But they go on! So let's get the money, the humanitarian aid they're giving us, and let's go. So we say we're not leaving. The buyers won't open. Greece should stay and fight within Europe with a river forum, clean and zoonotic against a sterile political system, with new creative forces at the forefront, with new people, with new values. Can we? We say 'Yes, we can't'! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u269	Mrs Valvain has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u270	I do not need a second, because I do not think it is a question of a number of words or a number of minutes when what the Anglo-Saxons say 'character assassination', what the Germans say 'rufmord', that is murder of a character. And you know, there are people who are professionals and who do that exactly. It's their specialty, because they know very well that there are some things that you do, even if after ten years in full, in any case, you're right, the point will actually be left. That is the aim of this whole case. I don't have to say I'm sorry because I haven't done anything I need sorry. If anyone needs to be apologised before everything from the previous speaker at the Step, it's me. And I expect to hear that apology from Mr. Ayggenakis, who was wearing trousers, is supposed to. I thought so until now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u272	You have the floor, Mr Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, some of us were wearing and still wearing pants. However, I will say nothing about the facts. The facts have spoken for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u274	Mrs. Birthday has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, the country is still on a stretched rope. I don't feel at all happy that this is happening. Not at all! And if I'm forced to remind you today, it's because now, after everything that's happened, I'm afraid Mr. Tsipras has learned nothing. At the time the risk of Grexit and national adventure has not gone through - the Prime Minister himself told us - instead of dealing with how it will implement and, indeed, how it will improve this difficult agreement in steady steps, he is simply trying to get away from reality. What did he say? We have not - he says - any connection to the paternity of this agreement. They got us ready. We were forced? Didn't you negotiate, Prime Minister? You sign it, you suggest it. For what? Do you finally adopt the theory of coup? Answer the Greek Parliament at last! Instead of taking positive advantage of the large majority that has been formed in Parliament after so many years, you choose to step on two boats, not to take a clear position between the euro and the drachma. And you make it amazing: Transfer the logical memorandum – an antimony within the SYRIZA. Only now the good guy is you, Prime Minister, the Memorandum. You made the mistake of interpreting the earlier agreements as acts of treason or decisions of people who did not have a strong will. That's how you went for five years. And you ended up in just five months in an unprecedented defeat threatening the country's very existence. Now you've understood the scary dilemmas. Your mistake that, today, you are paying for it by listening to the arguments from your party, from your own partners, which you were saying to all of us. As you set up, you'll sleep, Prime Minister! Your second mistake is that you mock and warm up the snake of populism and conspiracy. Of course, I have to say here that you weren't the first. This road was followed by the New Democracy first. The truth is that you have simply exploited the wave of populism that literally scanned the country in the years of the first memorandum. That's why you have the Independent Greeks next door. The snake you petted because you thought you could use it, now bite you, Mr. Tsipras! Your officers are pretending to speak in the name of the people, how they suffer with the weak, the poor and the oppressed, and at the same time they are photographed under the Acropolis with clothes that cost as much as ten wages of those you set up in the tails to get a 50-year-old. These mistakes, Prime Minister, compose your limits. Citizens did not notice them or actually did not want to notice them because they rejected the parties that had been ruling in previous years. They showed you tolerance, gave you time to learn. But now it is time for the crisis and comparison. And we, in persecuting persecutors, are here, present and present with the power of truth, forged in the great difficulties that we have faced in all previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, I am returning to the disastrous effects of the real economy on government policy over the last six months: You told us, Prime Minister, that the wall was broken. You have not, however, referred to the blows suffered by Greek society. The market continues to suffer despite the partial opening of banks. Farmers are upset about the tax issues that you have agreed on. An impeccable tax raid, which despite its temporary withdrawal will return if there is not a serious treatment as soon as possible for a documented counter-proposal. We will stand on the side of the farmers with concrete proposals and a national plan for the productive reconstruction of the primary sector. The effects of the capital controls are extremely serious. The fall in consumption is dramatic and the problems in the market and in businesses will follow us for a long time. The recession, in addition to its direct impact on unemployment and budgetary size, also affects the recapitalisation costs of the banks. In short, more money will be needed to support the banking system and deposits. Traders and small businesses continue to face problems with the lack of liquidity, together with the constraints of the banking system. Private workers live in insecurity as to whether they have a job tomorrow. Unemployed people see that there is no prospect of making any investment in this country in the next period. The resources of the current ESDP are at risk of being lost. Thousands of companies, who have paid investment, are struggling for getting money from the NSRF. The start of the new ESDP does not even appear on the horizon. Greek households are already experiencing the negative effects of the increase in VAT. As for consultation with banks for the protection of first residence, it already existed. You were committed to legislating on this. You are simply continuing the tactics of the previous years. And while all this is burdening the climate, the economy and society, the framework for negotiation on the final contract remains unclear, uncertain within the moving sand of political instability. Reformation proved to be a hole in the water and in the government's official rhetoric, there are excesses in statements about coup and extortion. Dozens, however, of SYRIZA Members, otherwise support the government, but not denying their country to the critical votes. And the Prime Minister is confined to verbal reactions and non paper leaks from Maximos. And the election goes well. Once again the party interest is above the national interest! That's the truth! How, really, do SYRIZA officials imagine these elections? Will they leave the country and the problems and ask for the vote of the Greek people? For what? To implement the agreement signed or to cancel it? For the new contract or plan B? With the euro or will they be towed again from their left platform on the road to the drachma? Or is it with everyone together, again, to gather audiences and ultimately to continue to mock and deceive the Greek people? It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that a road map should finally be agreed on the steps leading the country out of the crisis. The government, with all this data, seems powerless to rule. It is time to discuss seriously the political forces that supported and supported the country's stay in Europe and the euro. How do we finally move on? What's going to happen from now on? What do you think, Prime Minister? I believe that it is imperative that this dialogue should begin as soon as possible with a new board of political leaders under the President of the Republic. We are ready and will go with our proposals: Firstly, for as long as the country has not ensured a stable way out of the crisis, it must not face the prospect of elections. Especially as the new Convention and the Memorandum have not been signed, as long as the first assessment has not been completed, as long as the debt debates have not gone ahead, the scenarios for appealing to elections are disastrous for the country. Secondly, the Government must govern and consistently implement its obligations. In this effort we will be present, with criticism and constructive proposals. If you can't rule, if you don't have the powers, say it! There are no deadlocks! Thirdly, to review those points of the agreement which have a particularly adverse impact on the country's productive reconstruction and sustainable development. Fourthly, it is time for serious decisions to be taken to address extreme polarisation and new division. The first step is the consensual change of electoral law by abolishing the bonus of the fifty seats. It is an issue that PASOK has been putting forward for many years. It is clear that the next elections should be held with the system of mere analogy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u276	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u277	You're laughing, Prime Minister, about PASOK's positions. We have been saying for years that we should finally change this system that is not serving...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u278	Twenty years you've been a government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u279	We didn't rule alone. I would remind you that you have also committed yourself to your programme statements, unless it is another toy and this, if you have abandoned this commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u280	All right, let go of that. Our commitments are made, but that is a fixed position of PASOK, mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u281	It must boldly be decided on the changes in the state, on the reduction of costs, on the elimination of customer relations, on the reform of the political system, on the reconstruction of the social state and, of course, on the stopping of any legislative and government initiative that moves to the logic of distortions and pathogens, which are precisely the causes of the crisis and the bankruptcy we are experiencing today. On the occasion of this, I would like to ask the Government what proposals it has agreed with the partners to present directly for the modernisation, abstraction and reduction of public administration costs. I would ask you to inform Parliament, by tabling the relevant draft for debate - if there is! - to the relevant Civil Service Committee. And Prime Minister, I also expect you to answer my question and to submit the relevant documents on the objectives, composition, the conclusion of the committee, which, with your approval, was Plan B, obviously for the double currency as a precursor to the drachma. That was the real symphony with the unacceptable Symble plans. These issues are too serious to be concealed from the House and the responsibilities enormous. And it may be time to reveal to us - before another former or current Minister does - what you meant when you said in June to Moscow that we will be opened in other seas and arrive in other safe ports. How much do all this relate to the furries that Greeks and Greek women live in today? Did this have anything to do with Plan B? And who? Finally, was the country's stay in Europe and the euro not the first option for you, but a forced turn, when your ambitious new alliances disappointed you? Ladies and gentlemen, for PASOK it is a question of ensuring the smooth progress of the country within the euro and Europe. It is a strategic option that marks the positive course of the country and guarantees the safe future for each Greek woman, for every Greek and for the new generation of our country. And that has not yet been guaranteed! No one, but no one has the right to put that course in question. That is what we will remain absolute. The Grexit is parked in our yard and in order to get away definitively, we will have to end the lies with the drachma and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u282	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u284	The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, followed by the President of the ANELs. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Until I assimilate that the PASOK for years and years now had the support of mere analogy - it's always been on its schedule - I'd like... [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] ...to testify to a legislative improvement that I think the most misguided of you will accept that it is numerical and some form and has nothing on the substance. And of course, when I assimilate your support for the simple analogue, I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u286	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Constantinople, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u288	I'm tabling a legislative improvement for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u289	The President of the ANELs has the floor. There are three speakers left, who will inevitably speak, if they so wish, Mr Karathanasopoulos, Mr Mavraganis, Mr Loverdos, and in the end will speak to Mr Papapas in order to respond to what he said, with a view to the roll-call vote at the latest at 03:00. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, I will be very brief. I won't be long delayed, so we can go earlier than 03: 00. I thought today, when Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos are being treated, that there was going to be another debate in this House. I understand the stress of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos to support themselves and what they have done as co-pilots over the past few years, but unfortunately I have seen an obsession in this Chamber, rather than all of us looking together to alleviate the position of the Greek taxpayer, the Greek citizen, to congratulate the government, which is also negotiating in this Chamber today, we are not talking about the confiscation of the first home, but we are blocking the confiscation of the first home, and this is what all the parties together are, instead of all the parties, together, where you have collected signatures, colleagues of the New Democracy, about the taxation of farmers, to congratulate the government, which, thanks to the consultation it has not done as a prerequisite for farmers' tax, instead of saying good and we have done so. It's unbelievable what the Greek people see. And I wish he could see it more normal hours so he could see the truth. So there are no measures that for one week have allowed the media to confiscate homes from tomorrow morning in the Spanish way, with clerks entering homes. The first residence is protected. The government itself is a guarantee. There is no prerequisite for the confiscation of the first house of Greek and Greek. You didn't have to collect signatures. The signatures were collected by the government and the Prime Minister managed not to prerequisite farmers' tax. So stop worrying. So stop following a policy of a government, Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras, who left this Chamber. They've been deceiving, and I hope for a very long time. Here, then, ladies and gentlemen, we should also see what happened in this negotiation. I am pleased that you are voting here today - and by the opposition parties - on this proposal from the government. But we have to ask ourselves: When the Prime Minister was inside the Eurogroup and was trying to find a solution to a political coup that was taking place against Greece and not against Tsipras and the government, from outside others, instead of helping to negotiate, they went out and said "Give it all! Deal with them all!' You know, my father was an old car. So when they sold a car, usually used, they had different prices. They've always looked at the customer's wife, if he wants the car. When the client's wife yelled "take the car, because I'll kill myself", the price was up. The same is happening in Brussels. At the same time as the government was negotiating to get a better deal for the Greek people, they said "Give it all! Give me the defense! Give the islands! Give farmers tax!'. We must understand that this is not a policy that must be justified in the past. And there is no reason why Mrs Genemata, whom I particularly like, defends Mr Venizelos for the submarines and the 500 million that Scaramaga's so-called investor and 'had done'. There's gonna be an investigation! They'll pay! There is no reason for Vaggelis Meimarakis to defend the investment he went to Qatar for the Greek and "incidentally" behind the companies that would build the project were relatives of people of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u291	Can you get the socks?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u292	Are we going to take the rots? You want us not to take them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u293	Not between you guys, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u294	So let me answer you. If you want us not to take them, then don't sign them! The first one he signed was Mr. Venizelos and Mrs. Genemas. Have you now started, Mr. Kegeroglu, resisting Mrs. Genemas? Her signature bears Samara's signature. Do you want us to abolish them tomorrow? We abolish them, not to have planes from Greece to control the Aegean. Here, as we are, do you want us to abolish them now? Can I propose another sentence to you, Mr. Kegeroglu? Are we voting to reduce our wages by 30% all together? Prove to the Greek people that we are willing to offer in this Chamber too? [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Can I have another word, Mr. Kegeroglu? We are now voting for a hundred and eighty Members - we are now bringing it to the vote - the abolition of the law on the responsibility of ministers? He needs an eighty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u295	Where were you when we proposed it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u296	Let's get this over with. And let the ministers go to the stool and see what they signed, see who took them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u297	Please, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u298	Which ones? Let me tell you. Listen to the dungeon. You had my father hunted for a reported heap that pays tax. You sent him with cancer - I'd like to tell you - and finally this man was vindicated by the ILO. This is the flaw of PASOK and the state of vengeance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u299	Gentlemen, not between you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u300	It's this PASOK parastate that today puts the publishers, who shared the black money from CEDEFOP, newspaper monkeys and canalarchs and Lifelong Learning, Ministry of Education, didn't you put them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u301	Don't talk to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u302	Can I tell you something? Advertising companies will be opened to see which consultants were the gentlemen who grabbed it - of PASOK are - and a million and two million and three million. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard about defence and they have said a number of things about defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u303	Please, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u304	He said defence, Mr. Theodorakis, we're making appointments. Do you know what we're doing? We abolished all the ruffles and the hundred and fifty teachers grabbing them. There are no ruffles and ruffles offices. Kids serve in Evros and the islands. They do not serve in return in Athens. The units aren't empty. From the property of the Funds they go to farm rather than sell thirty-four million for the benefit of the Armed Forces. And because I see various questions, I see Mr. Meimarakis' photographer at the Ministry of Defence and Mr. Tsouula asking questions, the NH90 - was 20 billion - they had not passed a pre-contractual check. ‘Apache’ is also not a pre-contractual check. It's all in Mr. Ryku. Why didn't PASOK go in, for the disgrace all of them, the Chohatzopoulos, but also the Papantoniou? Four years, Papantoniou ate today. Papantoniou should have been confiscated from New Democracy. We did them. You did them. And in exchange for what happens today? The story with Mr Georgiou of ELSTAT continues. You are accusing the Government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks of vindicating and exonerating Mr. Georgios. He altered the statistics. He questioned the Government of Karamanlis. He set up the cds game. He and the company of Papandreus were ten businessmen who spoke with Soros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u305	Varoufakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u306	If Barofalis is in, we can search him. Because if Barofakis - as you say - is inside, then we'll have to go after him, as will your friends. Let's see!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u307	I said it's... (Didn't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u308	I don't exclude anything. The prosecutors have nineteen cases of corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u309	I didn't say that... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u310	Here, yes. Listen, with each other, here's one covered by each other, you managed to break up the country. Well, we're telling you, from now on, as long as our Greek people support you, we're going to break you, no one will get out of the hands of the prosecutors! We're not going to compromise with anyone! [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Arms merchant, newspaper and channel owner, has today been subjected to a new prosecution. What did the paper do 15 days ago? Attacking us. But of course, when they took the fivescore, the eightscore and the millions black from the CEDEFOP, when they were grabbed black from the "Vivid Lifelong Learning" then all these guys became dudes. So if you want the truth, ladies and gentlemen, let's go together. Leave the burdens of the past, Mrs. Genemas, let, Mr. Maymarakis, the burdens of Mr. Samaras, rule out the extreme powers and let us change the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u311	We're waiting for you at your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u312	To be able to pay the people who robbed the country. Because what is missing from the fund wasn't eaten by the Greek people, but they ate particular interests, you know them and we know them. Many of us have not put the finger on honey and many MPs from all parties, most of us MPs, have no obligation to anyone. We have a duty, however, to all those who robbed the country to confiscate them and to have their property, because otherwise we will be unreliable. And we, as a first step, put it now: abolishing the law on the liability of Ministers next week. Let's see who's signing. Reduction of our wages by 30% next week. Let's see who's signing. Do you all agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u313	Gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u314	Madam President, if the House agrees, we shall now put it to the vote, now a hundred eighty Members!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u315	Please, gentlemen. You're suggesting impossible things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u316	We are, however, voting on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u317	Put it now, Mr. President. One hundred and eighty Members are required to abolish the law on the liability of Ministers. And if any party disagrees to say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u319	Mrs. Birthday has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u320	I wanted to turn to the Minister, Mr Chakaloto, in principle. I challenge him, therefore, because SYRIZA's position is simply proportional and because it is a commitment and an election commitment, and in their programme commitments, to bring the law and they will also have the support of all of us. He had obviously not watched what PASOK says since 2012, but if he is interested, I can send him what I personally said, as President of the Association of Prefectures of Greece in a conference, along with Nikos Konstantopoulos for the simple proportionality since 2004. As for the rest that has been heard, this incredible populism, the pharmacopoeia and poison again in the political life of the place, let the Prime Minister be fascinated for his partners in this government. I just have to say we're not absolutely afraid of anything. My signature is nowhere because I never had responsibility for the equipment. Whatever it takes, he'll go to the prosecutors. We are clean, we are absolutely not afraid of anything and we want transparency in this country's political life. But here with populism, with the pharmacopoeia and the splitting. Do we finally understand what the country and the Greek society are at?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u323	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u324	I just wanted to clarify that perhaps my historical memory is not so good, but September III was in 1974, not in 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u325	Vote the Memorandum now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u326	Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Here comes Mr. Mavragans and Mr. Loverdos. Mr Pappas will only take the floor and the aim remains at 3.00 p.m. to hold a roll-call vote. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I will not avoid the temptation to comment on some of the positions that have been heard by the Prime Minister. What did the Prime Minister stress, for example? That after six months of tough negotiation, what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has achieved is to impose on you - so you said - a tough program, which you do not believe. So, this is how you cash out the confidence shown by the majority of the Greek people? But that's a frustration! On the other hand, what the Prime Minister claimed contradicts his claim that the government stood up, making a difficult compromise. In fact, this is how you welcome as a government the fact that you are driving people to poverty and impoverishment and that you are driving him with a high, as you have said, feeling of pride. Of course, the Prime Minister has also lied to you. Because it's a lie, it's a fraud, the claim that the prerequisites are much smaller than the Yunker package. Of course, but these are the prerequisites. You can't compare the Yunker package to the prerequisites. You need to compare the Yunker package to the whole new monster Memorial, which will follow the deal. That's what you're gonna compare. And that, of course, is not comparable, it is incomparable! It is also the myth, which the Prime Minister has reiterated again, that the European Union has been paralysed by its principles. Indeed, what ideals did the Community of monopolies have, even the pre-declaration SAD, call it a lion pit? From what founding principles has he misled? Of course, the Prime Minister is right that after 12 June the European Union is changing. But it doesn't change because it was you. Don't see yourself in the magnifying mirror. The European Union is changing, becoming more reactionary. Why, what do we have then? We have the five Presidents' directive to deepen the economic, fiscal, monetary and financial integration of the European Union and of the Eurozone even further. In other words, there will be even more stringent and compulsory rules, increased control and supervision measures, with automatic mechanisms for correcting and enforcing discipline. This whole debate is taking place in conditions of delayed opposition in the European Union, in the Eurozone itself, with Germany seeking to impose a much more stringent European Union, a much more stringent Eurozone in the name of budgetary discipline, and does not hesitate to do even circles, multi-speed cores in the Eurozone itself, with the hard core and the peripheral countries. On the other hand, we have the attitude of Germany and Italy, which are weakened by this situation, which want a more flexible fiscal policy, not, of course, to avoid austerity measures. In the last few years, both Olad and Renci have implemented measures to the detriment of workers, specific changes in industrial relations, the labour market and the public sector in the name of reforms. It is enough for the Prime Minister to say that the attitude of France and Italy is a attitude that highlights the progressiveness of these forces. I mean, Olad and Obama suddenly became progressive. That is why France and Italy have the support of the United States, which is why the Vice-President of the Government himself, Mr Drasakis, thanked the Americans for their attitude in negotiating with the Greek Government. Of course, you do all of this under the claim that you want to save Greece, homeland, the country. This claim was made by the previous governments. You're not original. But in the name of saving the country, you lead the people to destruction, bankruptcy. So who are you saving? You save monopolies, business groups, financial system, civil order in the country and its system, the capitalist system. So, in the name of salvation of the capitalist system, this barbaric and exploitive system, you are leading the people to bankruptcy. And the difficult option that you had to make between Scylla and Harybdis of endless bankruptcy is both options within the framework of the capitalist doctrine of development, capitalist barbarism. We therefore say that within these frameworks there is no way out for the benefit of the people. The only way out is to overthrow this situation, this system. And we come to the directive, Minister. We asked you some questions this morning. In your speech, Mr Chakaloto, you have tried, in a hard way, to avoid responding. You arrived with a huge political courage to claim that the JRC is putting back on the New Democracy and PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u328	A little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u329	But you're putting back on the New Democracy and PASOK, voting together the Memorandum Laws. You have given them the right to come out of the neo-democratics, but also of PASOK, to defend my farms, as I see it. If possible. You gave them this right, your government. And what did we tell you, Minister? You claimed first of all that the recapitalisation and reorganisation of the banks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u330	Okay, it's not bad to hear a little bit. Mrs. Caracosta, if she wants a rushphetti, she can do it elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u331	Paphie, watch what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u332	Mrs. Carachosta! Go on, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u333	You said that resolution would take place with the 25 billion of the new agreement and not with the new directive. Then why do you have her as a prerequisite? And who tells you that you will be able to reorganise the banks in the autumn and not the new year? Or why, at the bottom of the script, will you not use this weapon as extortion for the world? "Absolutely accept the measures anti-grassroots, the memorandum, so that the banks can be reorganised quickly and recapitalised, so as not to go to the deposits, so that bail will not exist in." But the essentials which we have put to you and which you have not answered are the following, Minister. First issue. What measures will you take for all those who took their funds abroad? Will you take any measures for all of them? They've got the pie all by themselves, and the dog's full. The Capital Controls didn't put it for big depositors, you put it for small depositors who will lose themselves from this process. The others who made their money abroad - with your permission - will not have any effect on the freedom of movement of capital? Is that how you're gonna hit corruption, Minister? This way you'll hit the corruption, as you claim? Second matter. We have asked you what will happen in the event of the directive being implemented with the deposits of the insurance funds? Are they excluded, or not, from protection? So, are they participating in the bail in the deposits of the insurance funds? The hospitals, universities, municipalities, or not? Of course, these deposits are involved in the resolution of the banks. They're gonna get tired? Of course they'll get tired. We tell you: Who guarantees the smaller deposits of EUR 100,000? The CEC with the 1,800? Does this guarantee the deposits when the CEC also have to take part in the corresponding amount of recapitalisation and resolution? So it's going to fall even lower on the protection limit for small deposits? So how do you guarantee all these issues? I would like to put two issues in relation to the Code of Civil Procedure. We talked about one issue before. You claimed that it was a pre-effect. You're not right, Minister. You know that very well since February 20 that within the prerequisites of the agreement you are going to make, it was to deposit the new Code of Civil Procedure. Were there any different proposals on a number of important issues? Sure. For example - we mentioned it before in committee - Article 9/77. There is a different wording. What wording did your Government choose? The worst version has been chosen. The wording that says that the ratio of 2/3 remains for the benefit of banks and 1/3 for the benefit of workers and others when an auction is to be made. Not only do you keep it, but you make it even worse. Decrease to 25% and add 10% to various non-preferential requirements. What, then, did you do this for? To serve and ensure first and foremost the interests of the banks. That is why auctions - you facilitate auctions - will be made on the basis of commercial value rather than of objective value. Therefore, the properties will be concentrated more quickly in the hands of banks and the financial system. A similar picture of facilitation and support to the substance of the needs of business groups is the next provision, which has been discussed very much, on the issue of the introduction of the written procedure instead of of the regular process of full reform. Is that what he serves? Does it serve the weakest, or the strongest in a court battle? It serves as much as possible because it has the organized accounting office, the organized law office and is at the expense of the weakest, as the Marios Ice himself points out in his announcement. Therefore, the position of the possible party, i.e. the position of the large business group at the expense of the impossible, is even more asserted. So this is what you are legislating for, the even greater strengthening of the mighty. And of course, within these frameworks, you are throwing the small lawyers, the self-employed lawyers, to the benefit of the large lawyer offices. So both articles of this bill are not fragmentary, they are not dispersed, they are not irresponsible, but they are aimed both at shielding the needs and interests of capitalist enterprises, which you, as government, are still faithfully serving in the name of protecting these interests even more. For this reason, not only can we vote against them, but we have also tabled a request for a roll-call vote on both the principle and the articles. Of course, that is not enough to change the situation. In order to change the situation, we need to build a handmade, radical, labouring, popular movement that does not oppose the government simply because it will not be able to protect the first homes from auctioning. Because that is what your rapporteur said: 'If we do not protect them, the movement will protect them'. So, you're oppositioning yourself? Can't you even guarantee that? We therefore want a classic, organized, working, people's movement, which aims to counteract this policy, will be aimed at the real causes of the problems and will lead to more general ruptures and reversals, focusing on the logic of satisfying the needs of the people and not meeting the needs of capitalist profit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u335	Mr President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u336	Yes, Mr. Venizelo. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, can I give two three answers to Mr Karathanasopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u338	I have already given the floor, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Venizelo. You requested the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u339	Yeah, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u340	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u341	Mr Kammenos also referred to my face and to the previous government and PASOK. Once when...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u342	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u343	... George Papandreou, the Old man of the Republic was interrupted by an MEP, asking, "Who said that?" and he says, "I." And he answers: "Then it does not matter." I could say the same for Mr. Kammenos. But Mr. Kammenos is a Minister of National Defence. He is a government partner of Mr. Tsipras. They did what they did, brought the country to the point where they brought it and in the previous critical vote they raised a hundred and twenty-three votes in the parliamentary majority. And the Tsipras - Kammenos government is based on the votes of the opposition, the surrogate, the bewildered, the slandered one. How can this image and this audacity be present? A government which does not control the majority of it and does not convince its MPs, which contradicts it, which must be apologied for what it has said and for what it has done, is based on the vote of counter-population, threatens it, and that is the basis of the functioning of the political system and the national strategy. Mr President, I am very badly affected, not for what Mr Kammenos said, but for as one of the Vice-Presidents I am forced to vote on national matters for reasons of national need, by indirectly giving my tolerance to the governments of the Member States. Tsipra and Kammenos. They must understand, then, that today's rulings cannot continue, that the first institutional requirement for the place to go is respect for the truth, respect for the opponent, respect for the history of the place. The second condition is that there should be an agreed framework for Parliament's operation, that there should be a Bureau of Parliament and that the Rules of Procedure should apply. Thirdly, to commit Mr Tsipras to the timetable for political developments. Tell us, not only where and how it is going, but also what timetable his government and country are going on. And after all that happens, he must ask the opposition parties to see if there are any conditions to reconstitute the national strategy, the one and only, the one we have implemented, the one we have said as truth to the Greek people, the one that has been contradicting it and which has been successful in the election, saying multiple lies: lies before the January elections, lies during the lost six months, lies in the referendum, lies, even now. In the Gulf of SYRIZA there are consistent, stable, honest, with whom you may disagree, but they have one view, and there are those who think they will incur the space of the European front central left or socialism, with the support of various circles within, but also outside, Greece. We demand and I demand personal respect, not to me, but to the people, i.e. to the truth. And I don't want any clarification from Mr. Kammenos. I would like Mr Tsipras to impose both on Mr Kammenos and on his ministers a way of conduct which, if anything, corresponds to the seriousness of the situation in which the country has come, due to the actions of Mr Tsipras and his colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u345	You have the floor, Mr Kammenos, but we must now avoid disturbing the mild climate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, in order to clarify things, if Mr Venizelos considers that because he is voting today, we will give him the case of submarines or any other case, he is wrong. Don't vote and, if you like, fire the government and let everyone take responsibility. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] There's no way there's going to be any transaction. Whether you vote or not, that Saffa grabbed the EUR 500 million and left, that we have reached the point of having EUR 7 billion of damage to Scaramaga, you are absolutely responsible. We told you he was a crook. You didn't hear anyone. You gave him the money, ordered two more submarines and left. There are no compromises. We are not voting here, nor are we asking for your vote to discharge you. No one's freed. Either you don't like it, you'll vote, or, if you want, shoot the government. And any one of the government's MPs does not vote, he also assumes his personal responsibilities. To end this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u348	Here you go, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, when everyone has a post, it also has a responsibility for the way it is handled. There are responsibilities - current responsibilities - for how much the lost six months have cost, because we have come to pay this account, because we need such a loan, because the public debt has been eroded, because we have to recapitalise the banks again. These responsibilities are open, alive and will be investigated. As far as submarines are concerned. The submarines on my day were the subject of the most transparent, most healthy contract that the Greek Parliament of Greece passed as a law, with the 2010 Act, which also supported part of the Opposition. We have acquired the ownership of the submarines and have valued the 2 billion euros paid by the Greek State before I took over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u350	Gentlemen! Gentlemen, please! Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u351	You now received the submarines at the Navy and Scaramaga under the management of the Navy under the law that Mr Avramopoulos has passed. You have received open arbitration proceedings at the International Court of the International Chamber of Commerce. Be careful - and I am stumbling your attention and your responsibility - to defend the interests of the public, to defend the 2010 Convention and the State Law, to apply the guarantees of transparency that this law contains. And don't you dare change the Arms Act, which I have recommended and which has been passed by the House in 2010. Stop the tricks, stop the tricks, stop the funny child-inspiring hints. They don't go through this to us, they don't go through this to me. Take note of what you are now doing over your term of office. But that's the least. The main responsibility lies with history, public finances, the fact that we have come to a recession, the fact that the country has gone back in five months. And there you are not just Mr. Tsipras' applause. That's where you're co-responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u353	After I reassure Mr. Venizelo...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u354	I wasn't worried about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u355	... that I have no purpose of pervasive social democracy and central leftism, because it has not fallen to my understanding that it is going through a golden age, so I need to do such a thing, I want to reassure Mr. Karathanasopoulos, whom I always listen very carefully, with great attention, and I would like to say to him two - three things about what he said. The first is for the transfer abroad. You should know there's already a plan. We have all the data from the Bank of Greece for those who have made money since the beginning of the crisis to date and we can match these transfers with the tax statements to see if Mr. Karathanasopoulos, who says the speech, has made 1 million and has declared 10,000...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u356	Not only the illegal ones, but the legal ones must get caught.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u357	Gentlemen! Let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u358	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you ask me a question and I try to tell you what we're trying to do. You asked a question and I'm trying to tell you in good faith...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u359	Don't bring him as a model in case. He'll react. So you're not going to mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u360	Yeah, well, that's right. I do not think that he has responded to this, but thank you, Mr President, for the protection you are giving the ministers. He's impressed us all day. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I wanted to tell you that first, we're watching the money that came out and we're gonna match the tax declarations to see them match and if they're justified. And you can be certain that this will bring a lot of money to the public funds to correct the injustices that are happening right now. Secondly, in addition to that, regardless of when you made the money, along with the French who did the same thing, with the voluntary disclosure, we will try to catch all these statements abroad of the Greeks, so that they can pay taxes as much as they would pay if they had the money here. The third point you asked me is that you had a feeling that I wronged you. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, it's not enough for a left and a marxist just to say about the capitalist system. It must at all times see the form of power and enforcement. When you know that for six months there is a government that is under the suffocation that has been imposed and when you know that in this form it has contributed the local capital and the local interests, it is wrong for you as a Communist Party of Greece to put it, not with those people who have suffered this suffocation, not with those people who have heard the thousand millions of how it is affected...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u361	You're voting for a memorial! Memorandum 3! You're robbing a people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u362	Gentlemen, please! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u363	Will you hear the argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u364	You must apologise! You voted for a third memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u365	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u366	You're exposed. The beehives, Mr Chakaloto, we have said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u367	Thank you again, Mr President, for the protection you are giving the ministers. You've done it all day and we're grateful for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u368	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u369	Like we've seen dozens of you here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u370	Please, Mr. Marino!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u371	The Marxists once called the theory "blue-philosophy". The Marxists once heard arguments and had counterproblems. It's down to the fact that you're answering arguments like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u372	No, when you make fun of a people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u373	Mr President, do you or do you not? Well, let me know!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u374	Don't say that for the third time, because I'm going to talk to you insultingly and rigorously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u375	And for the fourth time, I'm going to say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u376	Don't say that again. You're causing the speakers! Keep it going, please. Do not cause and refer to the name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u377	I didn't cause anyone. I was answering Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u378	Don't comment on me. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u379	Of course, I will make an observation. I didn't insult at all. Did I offend you, Mr. Karathanasopou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u380	You're not right, Mr. President. It's business.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u381	Who has Chakalotos caused, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, do you feel like I've offended you? I was answering the questions you put.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u383	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u384	Mr. Metropoulou, how exactly can I continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u385	I told you not to make personal and anonymous reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u386	We asked specific questions. You're answering us with vintage philosophies. Are you protecting the deposits of the insurance funds? These are the questions to answer and leave the Marxist ideology. Marxism lessons are we going to do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u387	We said avoid surnamed reports. It's a tired world. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor. Make it easier for you, too, to be brief, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, I feel that I must make it easier for all my fellow Members, as we are in committee today. Besides, it's late and everyone knows our positions. We said this morning that, in any case, the Greek Government, not in vain, but under suffocating geopolitical pressures and under the gravel cracks of a weak economy of the previous years, came to an agreement that led to this result of today's bill, the low-cost draft for the Code of Civil Procedure. Some had prepared the priority, the lenders had learned it, and now they fell in love with it and cannot dismiss it. So, if we know his weaknesses, we are here today, and we have proposed to the Minister, unfortunately, that he was unable to accept in Brussels, an amendment to the critical articles which would result mainly in the probative process, but also in the forced execution. We wanted to cure these wounds, and I think in the next period we will be able to do so. So on this point, I am convinced that we should expect to do better in the next few years. At the moment, however, we have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u389	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, at 3:00 we said to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Pappas and the President of Parliament will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, we agreed about 3:00 an hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u393	She asked for the floor, Mrs. Bakoyannis. How's it going to happen? Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, the time is 3.05 p.m., as I have quite rightly observed. It's 3.05. I address you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u395	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo. Don't give me up, because the timeline didn't come out because of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u396	But look at the procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u397	I'll be better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u398	The previous experience, one week ago, wanted the debate to peak at the level of Heads of State or Government to take place long before the rapporteurs recommend draft laws. And that has an inconsistency that we are living in today. And we're living it with more tension. When I'm done, the Minister will take the floor and then the President of Parliament will take the floor. The recipe of this kind of Parliament, which Mrs Constantopoulos as President of the Parliament organised, failed completely. It's a complete failure! And you are collectively responsible as the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u399	Now I am chairing, so I have failed, according to your claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u400	No, Mr. President. We have said since this morning that there have been possibilities for other types of procedures. You have chosen the worst collectively as the Bureau. You've chosen the worst, and you're exposing us. This is not the time when politicians come to Stepma, Mr. President. Another kind of people are coming out at the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u401	To withdraw this, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u402	So I do not want to exhaust the patience of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u403	Wait till my colleague is done. Mr. Loverdo, go on. Let's go to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u404	I do not want to exhaust the patience of colleagues. However, the arguments concerning the substance of today's intervention, which has been made in the hands of this government's prior action, should be... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I'm talking, ladies and gentlemen. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u405	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u406	In the hands of this government it became a prerequisite. This process, Mr President, is 50% of the problems of the development process of the country. The other 50% is in public administration. 50% of the obstacles are raised by the functioning of justice. And this cloak that worked for months you brought us here by this renicolo process. And we've been telling you since morning. May I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, on 21 November, the current Prime Minister, then the Chief of the major opposition, who suddenly visited the Bar Association to denounce this draft law? Should I remember that? Do they have any meaning right now? But that's how it's done! In the morning, we tabled a series of proposals for improvements, Mr President, on something - I say again - together with the reform of the Administrative Procedure and the establishment, when the Constitution, the Constitutional Court, has been revised, 50% of the obstacles to the development of the country. And he told us - and he surprised us - that he has no possibility of adding anything, because the anticipation of this negotiation, beyond the financial costs to which we referred, has come here too, to bring a draft law - five years has no precedent! - to which he cannot add even to mediation, which is an innocent matter in terms of terms - if you want - relations between the government and the troika. That's where we've arrived! And he invoked, and I am closing here, Mr President, the two unfavourable and difficult plans of a dilemma. He reminded me of Mr. Kastanides, Mr. Papaioannou, Mr. Athanasios, all the ministers who have put back at this time, who said that the dilemmas do not have a good and a bad part, they have two problematic and difficult legs and you need to choose the most good, most important, what something can give as help. And you come and tell us here, Minister, that? Is that your adjustment? Your personal adaptation and adjustment of the government cost something billions at the place and this inconvenience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u407	Gentlemen, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u408	I don't have time, Mr. President. I don't want to run out of this House. It's exhausted. I'm making a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u409	Please, gentlemen, there in the mountain theatres, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u410	Addressing his MPs, the thirty-nine who told him "no", the Prime Minister said that he cannot hide behind his own signature these thirty-nine. We tell him here that for five years back in our own efforts he was hiding to tell the lies he told the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u411	Mr President, we said 3.00 to begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u412	Mr Nikolaos Papapas, Minister of State, has the floor. We're about to finish. We're going to the end. Calm down, cool! Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u413	I will be brief, Mr President. I apologize in advance to the House for the late hour and I too join my voice with those who feel that there should be care to complete the debates of people and that people too should be able to monitor them and draw their conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u414	To your president, say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u415	Unfortunately, the debate was held at several moments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u416	Your president will say that, Mr. Pappa. How we didn't start at 6:00!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u417	All right, Mr. Yakumato. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u419	When I say 'accelerated speeds', I mean that it is expressed and expressed opinions that the problem of the economic crisis may be solved if we run the international courts by institutions. In various respects, it was also heard that all the problems of the Greek economy stem from participation in the common currency. That's completely false. I should like to begin by stressing that at the moment national currency in these circumstances, without foreign exchange reserves, would mean the country's almost direct recourse to the International Monetary Fund and without European institutions. This is an opinion which refuses to see the intrinsic problems of the Greek economy, and I repeat that the discussion took place at acquired speeds and on the part of the parties of Anti-Population, voices which came here to criticise the level of VAT, the taxation of farmers, the fact that this Code of Civil Procedure is being passed, the same forces that called for these measures to be accepted by the beginning of June and also the Greek people to ratify them by voting in the referendum. Unfortunately - and this is reproduced and should not - there are perceptions that identify Europe with the implementation of these measures. That should not be the conclusion. And it should not be the conclusion, because we have all followed - most of all, I imagine - the debate in the European Parliament, which the question has been put to a new stage. The question is no longer 'in or out of Europe'. The question is 'What Europe?'. That will be the comfort, I think, of all the political forces. They say we're bringing an agreement, which is worse than the two previous memos. It is quite obvious that this is not the case. It is, of course, a difficult agreement, and it has elements that will create material tendencies. Also, do not complain about the adoption of the programme. I repeat that anyone who has followed the debate in the European Parliament will have found that very important and well-intentioned forces there have refused that this programme has the elements that would necessarily make it effective. We say clearly and clearly that this framework of agreement has been able to bring about. If anyone thinks it could bring a better deal, he has nothing but to claim it. If anyone thinks that another government and other prime minister can do better, he has nothing to say directly. This government has exhausted both the mandate and the limits of the negotiation. He raised the debt issue. He passed a referendum. He made a payment stop to the International Monetary Fund. He internationally highlighted the Greek issue as a European. It was negotiated until the last minute. They all know that. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, what they asked for at the public property authority. They asked for a fund based in Luxembourg, with the known foreign administration and 50 billion public property, which would be sold exclusively to repay the debt. The fund is in Greece, with Greek administration and during the loan it will create values of 50 billion, which will go to development as well as to support the banking system. They say - and I conclude - that with the referendum we have lost ground. Remember where we were before the referendum. The partners asked at the beginning of June for a five-month extension, with four assessments in the summer and after the five-month new prerequisites, immediate abolition of the CSCE, privatisation of IPTO, immediate implementation of the zero deficit clause. The EESC remains until 2020, when it will be replaced, and for the other two issues the line is clear and clear in the agreement, which says we can find equivalent, and here we would also expect the contribution of counter-population.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u420	Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u421	At the moment we are in front of a three-year-old agreement, the debt issue has been opened and there is a commitment to the investment package. Ladies and gentlemen, can anyone defy the fact that there are no other public redundancies, that the question of industrial relations and collective redundancies is open for the month of negotiation? Who can ignore it and zero it? Or ignore that it doesn't change the protection framework of the first residence? Who can ignore that Germany has been severely criticised by friends and partners, by members of the European Union and not by any members of the European Union? Who can consider this to be a fact of zero political effect? I repeat that we do not celebrate, we do not hide difficulties, we do not hide the negatives, we do not hide that we have also made concessions, but we say again that this is what we believe was the agreement that could be reached. In view of this framework of the agreement, this government has much to do with much that the people expect us to do. Other ministers, like the Minister of Finance earlier, have mentioned tax evasion and corruption. I am happy to say that the TV licence bill is already in consultation. Let me say that I will have an interest in waiting for the placement of all parties, but I can only respond to the criticism that has been heard that we want someone to benefit through this bill. We don't favor anyone. There's no one on board. There are no acquired speeds for any of the existing ones, there is no privilege for any of the prospective new entrants. Net rules, uniform rules for all. I think it should be appreciated - and I am sorry to say this - above all by the Secretary-General of the JRC, whom I personally appreciate, because he left some suggestion that we are prepared to grant debts. The speaker charged the debts of television stations, which the previous governments had not done, and I think this criticism should not be launched. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end here with this. I will say that the majority Members know, in particular, that the expectations of rival political forces within and outside the country to overthrow this government have not been nullified. They will also be alive at this stage and at the next, and we, as Members of the majority, must, can and must make them inactive and open up and move together a path of hope for the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u422	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u423	Mr Pafile, you have the floor on the reference to your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u424	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I want to make two comments, the first for Mr. Chakaloto. From theory and Marxist analysis, we're full. After speaking, then, about the interests of capital, I ask you raw: The two bills that you bring who serve? The revision of the Code of Civil Procedure who serves, the worker or the capital? Answer if you have courage. Secondly, who does the Banks Directive serve? The worker or financial system, bankers and monopolies? So don't sell us any seaweed for silk ribbons. You've made a choice. And with regard to what a Member of Parliament said and the fortress that the Prime Minister said, we agree. You have both a meteorological and a fortress, but shoot the people and not the capital. If you have the opposite, prove it. What law do you bring, with the new agreement, which defends the people's interests and not the interests of capital? Nobody! You've delivered it all and made a choice. As far as the placement of Mr. Pappas is concerned, this is where we are all living. There are many things to be said here, which the Secretary-General of our party presented. Don't be in a hurry to disprove me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u425	I'm waiting, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u426	Life is ahead, and we'll see who's right and who's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u427	The word 'life' with the zeta small and not capital!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u429	I'll tell you one more thing, one big advice. Forget the word 'guarantee'. You've humiliated her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u430	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u431	As many times as you have said 'guarantee', you have done exactly the opposite. We'll see them along the way and judge them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u432	Does he wish to take the floor on the questions raised?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u433	No more! For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u434	Mr. Brutsi, what do you have? You've been mild all day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u435	After 3:00 he wakes up!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u436	There are limits! Respect, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Friday, do you want to say something? Please, Mr. Justice Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u438	Mr. President, you know I'm the most modest...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u439	And Mr Tsakalots has the right to speak, because he was heard and criticised. Here you go, Mr. Paraskevi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u440	I would just like to say the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u441	Gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u442	From the arrangements of the Political Procedure - the two that were mentioned by you, Mr Pafile, and Mr Karathanasopoulos - Article 977 and the corresponding arrangement for witness proof in the primary proceedings are precisely the cost, which, on the other hand, comes as a contributory to the fact that this arrangement ensures the level of living of the Greek people, as it ensures a funding which, in this period, is necessary, for the country to be able to take its next steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u444	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u445	Excuse me, Minister. And you yourself said what I said in another way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u446	Gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u447	Here we go. We're reasonable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u448	The President of Parliament has the floor. Come on, Mrs. Constantopoulou. Be quiet, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I have clearly formulated my institutional position on what has been going on for ten days in Greece and Europe: a real coup, a blackmail and a death row of the legally elected left government and the anti-immemorandum forces of SYRIZA and ANEL, an extortion carried out in the House, with the claim and her turn to endure. No one can deny extortion. No one can cover him or engrave him. And no one can pretend that the legislation promoted under the'super urgent' procedure is the result of a free will and a legislative initiative or a legislative choice of this government, which has committed itself to the very opposite, has been given a popular mandate for the very opposite, and has given a hard fight to start and act post-electionally as promised by the election. Some within Europe, by blackmailing this government with the survival of the people, want to despair the people of Europe as a whole and collectively. They want to get them out of the democratic process and convince them that it makes no sense. That is why they are cut and accelerated, so that 61.3% 'no' of the referendum is converted into 'yes', as well as cut, so that 93.12% 'no' of the referendum conducted in Greece by the country's legal associations can be converted into 'yes'. The words 'extortion', 'coup d'état', 'coup d'état', refer exactly to the diversion, which is taking place within the European Union, and it is obvious that, as in the country there are forces that wanted to constitutionalise the memorandum, so in the European Union there are forces trying to make it a European framework, while they are not. To blackmail the government of a sovereign Member State - a member of the European Union with the threat of non-existent and violent bankruptcy if it does not give in to legislation on how to award justice, such as the Code of Civil Procedure, or if it does not accept any coup d'état measures falling under national sovereignty and a European institution, the European Central Bank, as a tool for this blackmail, through refusal to provide liquidity in the common currency, is a straightforward and clear violation of European law, the European institutional framework and fraudulent behaviour. To cancel the legislative function of a democratic state by governments of other states and representatives of international organisations is tolerable in international law and in the democratic world. They are condemned by the lenders, the troika - which will allow me not to call them "institutions" again... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] [[Applause from the river wing]] ...because they have anti-institutional, extra-institutional and para-institutional behaviour - to have time to study the bills passed in this House - they didn't have, he says, time to study them, they knew the old of December and now they can't read new - but they claim from this House to vote for those which clearly have no time to study and the majority is clearly opposed. All this is the end of anti-democratic, reactionary, anti-institutional and anti-European behaviour. I would like to refer to the Prime Minister and the racing with which he has addressed us, his companions and his companions. I honour the sincerity of his words and intentions and his intentions, especially, to give together - not 'both' - all the good battles and win them. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] At the same time, however, we must not question the irreversible intention of lenders to entangle us, trap us, cancel us, humiliate us, confront us with ourselves and with our natural allies, that is, society and the people, and in particular the weakest social strata and, in particular, the new generations and future generations, to break us down and divert us from governance, or subdue us, to salt us and vaporize us. In order to prevent this obvious plan, we must use and exploit all our weapons, be aware of our vigilance and condolences and never forget the command, the multiple commands given to us by the Greek people for the abolition of their memoranda and enforcement laws and for the liberation of our country by the high debt. Of the wicked ones, some try to slither, to slime, to forget, too, from ignorance, naive or unconscious background, some may do so. It was characteristic that the Office of Officers should put formalities in our mouths, which would be a pleading free acceptance of these atrocities. And it is to the honour of the Prime Minister that he is sincerely speaking of the real conditions, not normal, of the extortion he has been subjected to as Head of State, of the personal trial he has been subjected to and of which the planet has witnessed, which has been uprooted online through the famous reference "This is a coup", "is a coup". Remember and say that we do not own the programme because, ladies and gentlemen, the wording 'ownership of the programme' is not innocent, it is not random. It is the wording which is a concrete fraudulent approach of the International Monetary Fund, which, for all the countries which have destroyed its policy, has shown its programmes as supposedly a choice and ownership of these countries. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of Parliament is ringing.]] Let us not talk about an agreement, because it is a free agreement that shuts it down and when one of the two is blackmailed, it is not called an 'agreement'. Let us not invoke these measures as well, because we do not propose them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u450	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u451	It was your proposal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u452	There's a coercion. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, what needs to be emerged is that we are chosen by poorly trusted counterparties, who have known from the outset, before the country comes into the memorandum, that Greece's debt is not sustainable. However, it was concealed and revealed recently in the work of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt. Our own counterparties today are forced to admit that the debt is not sustainable, but also to describe and delete, to prescribe and predict its further evacuation to 200% of GDP over the coming years. That they are badly trusted and wanted to save, not the Greek people, not the Greek society, but the banks, the private banks, first the Franco-German, second the Greek and then the bankers. Let us not forget that the Code of Civil Procedure, which is forced into the House, is a tool to serve banking interests, has been prepared by legal bank advisers, is intended to classify banks first in the deposit and auction tables before the Greek State - and that is why the report by the General Accounting Office of the State records that damage will be caused to the Greek State - and also to workers who are traditionally classified under labour law. This weakness of our counterparties to bankers and banks was also recorded in the example of Cyprus. And we should not forget that the destruction of the Cypriot banking system is linked to the Greek PSI, is linked to the choices of certain bankers to load the Cypriot banks with bonds of the Greek state. We should not forget that this is the subject of investigation in the Cypriot Parliament and in the justice of Cyprus. Nor should we forget that at the same time some domestic representatives of the same interests took care to give them, instead of a lenten bill and outside the institutional framework, shops in Greece of the Cypriot banks to a specific Greek private bank. And we should not forget the amendments - 'commodities' with which 'night' in previous governance has speeded up this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u453	Gentlemen! It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u454	Four in the morning is now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u455	Gentlemen, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u456	Personally, I do not forget that when Alexis was first elected President of the Coalition, I was his lawyer in the lawsuit and the lawsuit that Mr. Vegeopoulos made to him. And I would be happy to defend him against this banker. I am also not forgetting what is pending - and I am announcing it to you - and a request from a member of the Cypriot Parliament to investigate this aspect by the Greek Parliament at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u457	You're advertising your lawyer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u458	Gentlemen! It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u459	Check the time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u460	The responsibility of our counterparties in the negotiations and their mistrustful behaviour creates grounds for annulment of the memorandums and deletion of debt, which was concluded in violation of the Constitution, international treaties, international law, human rights, and the conclusion of the Commission's Truth Committee on Public Debt of the Parliament, which I present in the minutes of this sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u461	Gentlemen, please! We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u462	The United Nations has also repeatedly been placed. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] It's interesting who's responding...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u463	Gentlemen, please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u464	I do not believe, gentlemen, that you should ask us to leave the UN. Because, then, the UN has repeatedly been placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u465	He's been talking for sixteen minutes already, Mr. President. We're not going to suffer her anymore!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u466	...on these issues, and through his independent expert on debt and human rights issues, because a week ago it was placed very thoroughly and the National Committee on Human Rights, the Greek State's independent advisory body on human rights issues, which says exactly that no other cuts and austerity measures have been tolerated and that to an unacceptable extent human rights have been violated...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u467	It's four o'clock in the morning, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u468	In your mirror, talk as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u469	But we're done, Mr. Yakumato.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u470	You're talking more than the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u471	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u472	Here, Madam President, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, you are noble, but it is obscure and, at the same time, disastrously anti-parliamentary the behaviour of some.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u474	Yours is unparliamentary. You waited for the conversation to end to take the floor. The capsules are over!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u475	We're done! We're done and we're going to the vote. Madam President, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the positions of very prominent economists, such as Mr Stigclic, who speak of an agreement with the gun on the front, such as Thomas Picketty, which highlights extortion and the lack of moral backing. It's important for us, for SYRIZA, not to reproduce the logic and rhetoric of the monoway, but to work...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u477	Gentlemen, it's over. Gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u478	Mr President, if you want, so that I can finish, let my colleagues stop or, if they can't, let them go out to Ethiopia...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u479	Gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u480	...because for the last six minutes, I've been under a certain blockade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u481	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Complete, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u482	You don't respect time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u483	Gentlemen, please! Come on, Madam President, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u484	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u485	The President shall be closed in a minute. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u486	The President is late in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u487	I do not think colleagues want us to vote on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u488	Gentlemen, please. Come on, Madam President, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister spoke of the commentator who referred to him as 'brainhead'. He's not stubborn. He is an ideologist and unselfish and the message that must remain is not the message of the stubborn, but is the message of the stubborn claim of those who are unnecessarily principles, values, goods and rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak directly to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u490	Again? Aren't you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u491	You spoke more than the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u492	Come on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u493	They speak of a lack of confidence by our counterparties and they mean that confidence is being compromised by democratic processes. I think we need to speak straight about whether we have any confidence in them. And I'll clearly tell you that I don't trust them. I don't trust them even - Mr. Poppas is missing - that they will let the fight against corruption and interlocutory take place, because five years now they are making the mistakes in the orgy of corruption and interlocutory, which their counterparties, the governments of their political families, have consistently served, five years now they have made the wrong eyes to the fact that the media tax clauses have not been applied, five years have made the wrong eyes to the fact that in a graceful way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u494	He speaks twenty-two minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u495	Come on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u496	...the broadcasting scenery was delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u497	Come on, Madam President, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u498	Mr President, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u499	When it's over, let us know, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u500	We're done. Come on, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u501	Five years now, since we have 2015, and the Lagard list has been delivered by France...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u502	Madam President, do not go far. Come on. Gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u503	...in 2010, by Mrs. Lagard herself, five years now they've been making the wrong eyes for the tax evaders abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u504	Come on, Madam President, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u505	Mr President, stop her!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u506	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u507	You don't respect your colleagues! Twice a year you're talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u508	Mr President, it's ten minutes I'm trying to say five phrases...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u509	What five phrases?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u510	... under the constant interventions of the colleagues of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u511	Complete, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u512	It's 4:00 at dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u513	You sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u514	Mercy! Shame on you! You do not respect the House or the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u515	Madam President, please conclude. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Gentlemen, please too. Madam President, please, please, so that we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u516	I also have no confidence in them, because in the legislation they rushed last week, in a photographic way, they provided favorable treatment for the jury, Georgios Georgios and the legal services he ordered. [[To enter page 291a]] I have unreliable confidence, unresolved confidence in SYRIZA, our collectiveness, our fellowship, our internal solidarity and cohesion and our mutual support, where everyone is tested. I would like to say from this step forward that cannibalism against Nadia Valavani is a fraudulent, sublethal one, is in the direction of the moral degradation of the personality of a Parliamentary, which has perhaps been the most laborious of the previous period, which has in a way worked to devise this horrific system of privatization and divestment of public property and where it has been brought forward, it has been carried out with unselfish and obscure dedication. In the same way, I want to stand up to all my fellow Members and colleagues, who are put on the media in order to dismantle, deceive and cancel. Because those who attack us know that the Left has the moral advantage and this moral advantage they want to remove us. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I close by saying that I clearly explained this afternoon why I am voting against this piece of legislation. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that none of us are and will be shot and if one fortress retreats every time, the rest must rise. I call on you to give the struggles that have not yet been given, and in particular the fight for debt write-offs, a debt which is inappropriate, shameful, illegal and unfair, does not account for us and does not account for the lives and future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u517	Gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u518	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u519	Mr. Kegeroglu, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u520	I give up, for the vote to take place. But tomorrow, let us gather Members also speak. Thank you to the officials and the President of Parliament for letting Members speak! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u521	Thank you very much. After such an exemplary meeting, the debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is concluded: "Emergency measures for the implementation of the V. 4334/2015 (A'80)’. On the principle and on Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law, two motions for roll-call votes have been tabled, one request by Members of the Golden Dawn and another by Members of the Communist Party of Greece whose texts are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u522	As far as the procedure is concerned, I would like to remind you that under Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be taken when a request signed by the total number of Members is made. I shall first read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of members of the People's League - Golden Dawn to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Arvanitis - Avramis Michael. Here you go. Mr. Galeos George. Here you go. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Granical Photios. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Matthaopoulos Artemios. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Sveroni-Hondronasios Despina. Here. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. I shall now read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mrs. Gerasimidou Helen. Here. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Marinos George. Here you go. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten (10"), in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u523	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Do you accept that two roll-call votes in one provided for in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u524	The House has agreed. A roll-call vote will therefore take place on the principle and on Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent measures to implement the V. 4334/2015 (A'80)’. Parliamentarians Mr Panagiota Dricelis from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy are on the list. According to Article 72(6), the recipients of the draft law in principle and the articles are ‘NEI’. Those who fail to accept the bill on principle and the articles say 'NOI'. The voters say 'PARON'. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u525	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mr Charakides, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that, if he was present, he would vote 'yes'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u526	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that tomorrow, Thursday, 23 July 2015, the day of the junta fall, in the Freedom Park, the former U.S. Junction, the Association of Prisoners - Exiled Resistance 1967-1974 takes place at 20.00 p.m. For the CTE 1967-1974, our member and colleague Mitafidis Triantafylos signed. [[To enter the Protocol p.301]] I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament on 30-6-2015 in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as is the case, criminal case-file formed following Dorylaos Klapaki’s 9-4-2015 sues and concerns the former Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, George Katrougalos, for alleged acts of last treason, violation of duty, misuse of authority, fraud and fraudulent harm (Articles 134-137, 259, 239, 239, 386 and 389 B.C.) on the submission and promotion of the draft law: "Democracy of the administration - Combating Writing and Electronic Governance. Restoration of injustices and other provisions’ and in particular Article 15 thereof, concerning the conversion of IFRIC staff posts into permanent posts. Finally, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to Parliament on 15 July 2015, pursuant to articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, of the 'Energy Citizens' complaint' of Western Macedonia, which was sent to the Special Secretary of the ILO, concerning the former Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Michael Papadopoulos, to investigate any offences committed in the performance of the project: 'Repeal of the Grammos'. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u527	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. They voted 298 MPs. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 230 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 63 MPs voted. "PARON" have voted 5 MPs. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent measures to implement the n. Regulation (EEC) No 4334/2015 (A'80) ” was accepted by a majority in principle. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice 'NAI' voted 225 MPs. 'OH' 63 MPs voted. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice 'NAI' voted 231 MPs. 'OH' 60 MPs voted. "PARON" 7 MPs voted. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u528	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u529	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent measures to implement the n. 4334/2015 (A'80)’ has been accepted in principle and by a majority. Does this House accept that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u530	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u531	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent measures to implement the n. 4334/2015 (A'80)’ has been accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of Articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u532	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-22-S1-commons.u533	With the consent of the House at 4.40 p.m., the sitting on Friday, July 24, 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a petition, a topical and urgent debate.
