ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Today we had scheduled a special agenda for Parliament's plenary meeting of 10 March 2015 for the victims of Nazism and the places of testimony and Holocaust in Greece and a debate on the claim of German debts, in accordance with the unanimous decision of the House of Parliament on 10 March 2015, when it was decided to set up the Intergroup Committee on German debts, to upgrade and reorganise, in accordance with the respective decisions of the Intergroup of Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on German debts and, finally, in accordance with the decisions of the Conference of Presidents, taken on 7 May 2015 and 23 August 2015 and were unanimous. I am sorry and disappointed to see that, on this major issue, which is of historical and national importance, a quorum has not been formed so far in order for the debate to take place. I see my distinguished colleagues and fellow Members from two parliamentary groups, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the Group of the European People's Party Parliament. I see no Members from any other parliamentary group. However, I must mention, because we have chosen guests who have closely followed the work of the Committee on the Criticism of German debts, namely compensation, corrections, repayment of the forced debt and reimbursement of the stolen archaeological treasures. You will allow me to mention both those present and those who are not present, two large personalities who are not present, but who have sent letters. They are therefore with us and honor us in their presence, as well as throughout the work of the Committee on the vindication of German debts, Mr. Aristotle Syndicakis from the Coordinating Committee of Germany's National Board of Appeal to Greece, Mr. Sarados Theodoropoulos from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Lawyers for German Remunerations, Mr. George Papapetrous from the Association of Prisoned and Exiled, Mr.Ioannis Mavros from the National Council for the vindication of German Debts, Mrs. Helen Emmanuel from the victims of the Lehovos Florina Holocaust, Mr. Marios Rousses, President of the Association of Antiquities of the Holocaust and also, as always, from the Scientific Council of the Greek Parliament. In addition to those who are here, whom we thank for coming, and as President of this House, I apologise for having chosen to cancel this important debate, for reasons which cannot in any case be justified or justified, I would like to inform you that we have a letter from Manolis Glezo, to whom I sent an open letter thanking him for all his contribution to the case of claiming German debts, but also for all his assistance and contribution to the real resistance to the memorandum and for democracy and I invited him to be with us. I shall read this letter to you, since it is in response to this letter and its reply: "Compare Manolis, a fighter of the Resistance, the Democracy, the Left, I address you this letter with four qualities, the status of a citizen, an active member of society and the people, whose importance you have politically honoured and displayed as few as possible, as a genuinely active citizen, the status of a mere member of the House as well as of the MP of SYRIZA, who has honoured with your active participation for years and also by devoting his votes and having consistently served, with fascinating and sincere concern for our common course, the status of President of the Intergroup of Parliament for the purpose of claiming German debts, a committee set up thanks to your own initiatives and your perseverance in the previous period and has been reconstructed and upgraded in this period, following a proposal and unanimous decision of the House, and, finally, the position of the House. With all these four qualities, I would like to express my gratitude for the constant way in which you are struggling not to pass the third memorandum, as a roller over the Greek people, society and democracy, not to eliminate the struggling social forces and new generations and not to surrender the country to the lenders and the oligarchy. Your recent public interventions show that the existential anguish for freedom, democracy, people's sovereignty, national independence, dignity, hope and life are a field of joint vigilance and struggle, in which we are called upon to contribute, not only from choice and commitment to the principles and values that we have served but also from a supreme democratic duty. The paths of hope, on which we have gone, prove that there are no one-ways or deadlocks in democracy and as long as the people are active and as long as there are representatives of them who are determined not to betray him. I would also like to inform you that today, at 18.00, Parliament's plenary will meet on the claim of German debts and tomorrow, on the preliminary conclusion of the Committee on Truth, Public Debt, in order to enable all Members and Members of Parliament to put themselves on these two major issues, for which this House has taken important initiatives. Your presence will be an honor. Comradely appreciated, democratic anxiety and racing vigilance, Zoi Konstantopoulou". Manolis Glezos is in Naxos, and during this procedure he sent me an answer. She did call me and dictate her to me, because she's in the airlock: "Your invitation finds me in the Intangible Naxos and that is why I cannot attend the convened plenary session. I value the existence and functioning of the Intergroup of Parliament on the issue of German debts, not only for its role in processing and collecting data, but above all for the tour you have planned to carry out in the European Parliament on this issue. I would also like to inform you that in Germany there have already been proclaiming committees, consisting only of German anti-Fascists, Hanau, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Berlin, and a German committee has already been set up on the same subject. I hope for the success of your work and welcome it. Manolis Glezos, Aprathos, Naxos". And when Manolis Glezos, after this route, feels the need to justify his absence, it is only to be saddened that fellow Members did not consider that they should attend this historic meeting. I would also like to read to you the letter sent to me by Alice Geotopoulos - Magatopoulou, an emblematic personality in the fight for human rights and their protection, which through the Magatopoulou Foundation, but also through the work of the National Committee on Human Rights has contributed to the issue of the protection of democracy, rights and freedoms. After the invitation to attend the Foundation, as she has always done in the work on claiming German debts, Alice Giotopoulos - Magatopoulou sent me the following letter: “ Dear Life, Just now we have been informed by your Office of the realities of the Parliament today, 25 August at 18.00, of a reminder of the victims of Nazism and the places of testimony and Holocaust in Greece and a debate on the claim of German debts. The Magatopoulou Foundation for Human Rights, a supra-party supporter of democracy and national independence since its establishment, considered and considered that voting for the third memorandum is essentially the charismatic shot against democracy and independence in our country. Our Foundation believes that all the democratic parties in Greece should cooperate in order to eliminate, after study and sincere effort, the consequences of this unacceptable memorandum as far as possible. With always friendly feelings, Aliki Giotopoulou - Magatopoulou". Ladies and gentlemen, having thanked the only rapporteur who has been appointed, Giannis Stethai, our Member of Parliament, and since I thank everyone and all the present and present Members present, Mr Zesis Zanna, Mr Thanasis Petrakos, Mr Rahilis Makri, Mr Thomas Kotsias, Mr Stefanos Samoilis, Mr Kostas Demetrios, Mrs Agalia Kritsis, Mr Michalis Kritsotakis, Mr Thanasis Skoumas, Mr Vassilis Kyrikas, Mr Kostas Lapavicas, Mr Kostas Zacharias, Mr Yiannis Statsias, Mrs Nadia Vascostakis, Mr Kostas Issichos and Mr Loutsakos, I am, unfortunately, in order to find that there is not a plenary session. This does not mean that there are no living social forces, political forces, democratic forces that will fight, so that this House is a living cell of democracy and not a tool or a "clotskoufi" in the hands of those who are working on the destruction of democracy, but also the silence, the squeeze of every democratic voice. I thank our chosen guests for honoring us. I'm sorry we hurt you. I'm sorry for those who didn't find the honor, they haven't found the power, even today, to be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-25-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-25-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Petrako, do you want to say something? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I would first of all like to express the great thanks and unlimited appreciation of the Group of the People's Party, which I have the honour of being a Parliamentary representative, to all the invited fighters who are here today. They came here to take part in a historic meeting, which the Conference of Presidents, upon your recommendation, had decided. As you have pointed out, there are, unfortunately, a few Members here today. But there are Members, as you said, from two groups of Parliament. These MPs link a common red line. They are the MPs of 'no', the Members of 'no' in the memoranda, the third memorandum. Their presence here states that they honor the "no" of the Greek people, the "no" of the National Resistance. I believe that I am expressing all my fellow Members that our presence here means 'no', that we do not retreat against the demands of the German Government to forget the claim of German allowances, the claim of the mortgage loan, the corrections and the claim of stolen archaeological treasures, but also of whatever evil it has done to the Greek people of Nazism and fascism. So we say 'no', we will not stop. We state our demand and our decision not to stop claiming what is the law of the Greek people, what the fighters and the victims of the atrocities of Nazism are asking for. The blood that has been spilled in this place will not be forgotten no matter how many people want to stop 'no' and do 'yes' at times, 'yes, we agree not to claim'. 'No', then. We are insisting and insisting on all our powers, to which each one of us is present, so that we continue what the National Council with Manolis Glezos has claimed over all these years and has done so not just internationally, but globally. It is very important that what Manolis Glezos points out in his letter that German anti-fascists set up committees to claim the rights of the Greek people. It is not possible for the government to conclude that it will pay the debt in full, that it will do so in good time and without doubt and at the same time to forget the claim of the mortgage, of the German allowances, of the corrections and of all the disasters that have been made. So we who are here - and I believe that I express all my fellow Members - will insist on the claim which is perfectly fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-25-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. Thank you for making this reminder, which many of us do in Germany too, that there is a straightforward contradiction between the claim to pay off an illegal debt, the alleged Greek public debt and the claim - again on the same side - that a historic debt should not be repaid linked to the most detestable, most heinous international crimes and that is Germany's debt to Greece. I would not like to close the sitting without giving the floor to Mr Statha, since we have no quorum. He was, however, the nominated rapporteur, and it happens that he is the only Member of Parliament, as well as a member of the Committee on the vindication of German debts. I must say that I expected at least the members of the committee to claim German debts to be present. I'm sorry for their attitude. But I would like to give the floor for a moment to Giannis Statha, who I know is not asking to speak but which at least needs to be given the opportunity to record.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-25-S1-commons.u6	Today, with our regret, once again, the institutions do not work. The atrocities that have taken place in our country and all that we have come here for today have been made by some people who are against democracy. With what has been happening in recent years, with the degradation of institutions, as do the parties, those who are against democracy are rubbing their hands. And they begin to harvest in Greece as well as in Europe. This is the most dangerous of all, with these policies being implemented. And those who apply them have historical responsibilities. And there are so many responsibilities that I hope we do not experience what our ancestors have experienced. We are therefore obliged to fight for democracy and freedom, for which our ancestors have given their blood. That's how we should do it. And we need to get a message on the subject of German corrections that Manolis Glezos has kept it alive all these years. We have to say that what Manolis Glezos does, along with others who have fought, who we can list and are too many - but with the spear's edge Manolis Glezo - has the effect of being here and trying to carry out the battle we will give, because we are going to move on with two messages. Those who have committed crimes against humanity, one thing they need to understand all the years they pass, they will pay. We also keep memory alive, to know what Nazism and fascism mean, and today and next generations. So these messages have to be passed, and that is why we have to continue. I sincerely regret, once again, that my fellow Members are not here today. With their absence, since the House is still open and once they say they believe in democracy and institutions, they do good to those who are against democracy, to give them arguments and to go through them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Statha. Thank you for saying the historical phrase: 'We do not forget'. We do not forget what fascism means, what Nazism means, what totalitarianism and dismissal means. At the same time, we do not forget that the resistance is the one that brought the liberation and disappearance of these monsters of history. When there is no resistance, then the phenomena - these ghosts - of the past, and of course, Nazism and fascism spread. You are doing very well and pointing out that these behaviours, this abstention, are water in the mill of anti-democratic forces throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow there is a planned plenary session on the subject of 'Conclusion of the preliminary report by the Committee on Truth, Public Debt'. I would like to remind you that fifty-five Members of the Greek Parliament had signed a request for this debate. These fifty-five Members were then part of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and today they are divided into two parliamentary groups. I hope at least these two groups will be present. I hope that Parliament will have all its Members tomorrow, because the question of public debt, on which the most barbaric policy is implemented, is an issue that cannot be discussed before the House closes. Two meetings of the Conference of Presidents have been decided on this. It is a request for a palatial to be heard about the Commission's finding, which gives our people and their representatives a unique vow, and I hope that all of them will be lifted tomorrow. Therefore, in the absence of a quorum, the plenary will meet tomorrow with the item which has been announced. Thank you. End time: 19.40 ́
