ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2016’. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget will be held in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure within five consecutive sittings. We shall start today and end on Saturday at 12 o'clock in the evening, when the vote will take place, without lunch breaks. I'll see you later, so we know exactly the whole program. It was agreed to give the Bureau lists of speakers from the parties who wish to do so. I would like to propose to this House that, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, Rule 65(5), the party list should be submitted if they so wish. Colleagues who wish to speak and not be included in their party list will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech of the general rapporteurs and a single list of speakers will be drawn up. The speakers given by the parties with a list will precede the speakers who will be registered with the electronic system by the same party. To give you an explanation, perhaps because some colleagues are younger and have not understood it exactly, do not be alarmed if they have shown you that you are twenty-first chance of being eighty-third or thirty-three-three-three. The series from your electronic machine gives you the assurance that you'll be before the next one, that is, in this case before the twenty-fourth or twenty-fifth. In the middle of the day, the speakers from any party have given lists of speakers, and, secondly, there will be an algorithm that I will tell you to define in what order they will be speaking. Therefore, the number we have below cannot be matched by the number of above. However, because it is five days in the process and we have studied and how many people have spoken in recent years, and so on, there must be no problem. Perhaps even two hundred colleagues can speak. Five days, that's what happens. There won't be any lunch breaks. Well, we won't have a problem. I also propose that, following the speeches by the general and special rapporteurs, there should be a circle of speakers with speakers from each party. As a matter of priority, we will have eight alternate MPs from the eight parties. Then, as far as possible, I propose that a single list of speakers should be drawn up including the Members registered with the electronic system and the Members who will be given a list by their parties as a priority. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Now here's what the speakers will be like. The speakers are after the speakers, after the rapporteurs and after the first cycle, which will be one of each party. We're leaving these three first circles. The first two of them will be today. I hope until 11:00 and half at night. The other cycle will be tomorrow. After these cycles there will be cycles where there will be certain speakers from each party, which I will tell you. Perhaps these circles will even reach fifteen. So they also cover all parties, the smaller parties and with the whole of their power, assuming they will be registered. Each speaker will be composed of 12 Members who will be alternated. We expect them to be at least seven such circles. In particular, each cycle will consist of eleven Members of the first five parliamentary groups, five of the SYRIZA, three of the New Democracy, one of the Golden Dawn, one of the Democratic Association, one of the JRC and successively every three cycles will enter and one of the River, from the Independent Greeks and from the Central Association. In other words, it will also be able to speak of all the parties with up to ten Members. Of the independent MPs, who are two, if they are registered, the first will speak after the fifth cycle and the second after the twelfth cycle. Any changes in the order of subscribed speakers should be made in exceptional cases with the approval of the Bureau and with a document of the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group addressed to the Bureau and with the need for mutual change by the end of the second sitting. We will make every effort this year, as we have done in recent years, to speak as many colleagues as possible. This will be possible if we all limit ourselves to the time we are entitled to, and if our meetings start at the very time that has been set on the agenda. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to stress that it is essential that time should be strictly respected and that the meetings should be started at the time that has been planned. The first meetings will begin at 10 a.m. The sitting on the last day of the debate, on Saturday, will be opened by the remaining speakers, so it will be set and made known on Friday on 4 December. In other words, there may be a few speakers left, and on Saturday, we will start at noon or early this afternoon to make it compulsory until 12 o'clock. Or we'll start Saturday too at 10:00 in the morning. On the night of the last day of the debate, that is Saturday, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, the debate will be closed at exactly 12 o'clock and the vote will begin. We've made cuts in everybody's times, than you'll see, so there'll be an economy of conversation. I propose that the speaking time of the general rapporteurs should be twenty-five minutes, of the special rapporteurs 15 minutes, of the Prime Minister, thirty-minutes, of the Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, of the Presidents of the People's Association Parliamentary Groups - Golden Dawn, of the Democratic Independent PASOK - DIMAR, of the JRC, of the River, of the Independent Greeks and of the Centroon Union, of twenty-five minutes, of the responsible Minister for Finance, of the Deputy Minister for Finance, of the other Ministries, 15 minutes, of the Deputy Ministers of the other Ministries, that is, over the Ministry of Economy, eight minutes, of the Ministry of Finance, and the secondaryities of the other Ministries. From now on, I say that those who exceed their time, I mean in relation to Ministers, Undersecretaries and Deputys, will count secondary in this time. In other words, they will not have the right to secondary education. Parliamentary representatives are entitled to speak for twelve minutes, but if the Presidents of Parliament are presided over, otherwise they will be confined to the time of dentistry, that is, six minutes, in all three minutes of the trilogy. In other words, they will have nine minutes of speaking time in accordance with Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The speaking time for all the speakers on the list will be six minutes, with a tolerance of at least the first few days, which may reach seven minutes, but not ten or twelve minutes. We haven't prepared in a while. Finally, I propose that today's sitting should end at about eleven o'clock. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed. With regard to Parliamentary Representatives, by Mr Savvas Anastasiades, Deputy Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis is appointed as the party's parliamentary representative. Mr Germenis, Secretary of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, is appointed as the general rapporteur, Ilias Panagiotaros, special speakers, Mr Karakostas and Mr. Germenis and Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Christos Papapas. By Mr Papachristopoulos, the Secretary of the Independent Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos is appointed as the general rapporteur, as a special rapporteur, Mr Kokkalis and as a parliamentary representative, Athanasios Papachristopoulos. From Potami, Mr Kartsoulis Panagiotis appoints the general rapporteur, Mr Spyros Dannelis, a special speaker, Mr Constantine Barriots and Parliamentary Representative, Mr Theocharis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 2nd Gymnasium of Egypt. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u3	Mr President, when does the registrations begin?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u4	The entries are now beginning and ending at the end of the speech of the general rapporteurs, for some of the Members who may be missing. It's about a couple of hours. The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Christos Beyalas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, may I begin?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u6	Please don't make a fuss. Mr. Beyala, you have the floor. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u7	Mr President, thank you. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2016 budget, the first budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, a budget that marks the beginning of a new course for our country, our economy and our society, a budget that comes after a very difficult year for the economy and society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u8	Please! Don't be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u9	Obviously, Mr President, some colleagues are not interested in the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u10	Don't comment on it, Mr. Rapporteur. Let's start with the best omens. Please, be quiet. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u11	This is a difficult year, as we all know that within a short period of time in 2015 we had two elections, a referendum, but the most important thing is that, at the beginning of 2015, we had the change of government from a New Democracy government - PASOK to the new SYRIZA - ANEL government, a change which, it turned out, did not like many. There was a war situation towards the government both within the country and abroad, with the main aim of our opponents the 'left parenthesis'. So, and after the second election in September, after the referendum had been preceded, their 'left parenthesis' plans have been permanently cancelled. It has now been understood that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will govern this country for the next four years. She'll give her own political stigma. It will give the mark of change for the economy, but also for society. The budget debated today contains the element of the budgetary balance. It sets the objective of ending the remission of the recession and seeks to emphasise the element of social justice. For the first time in recent years, a social budget has been voted on. The 2016 budget aims at three points. The first objective is to maintain budgetary equilibrium. This is translated into non-deficitive budgets, achieving primary surpluses of 0.5% for 2016, 1.75% for 2017 and 3.5% for when the economy has recovered from the recession in 2018 and 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u12	Mr. Beyla, excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen of this wing, please very much, be quiet. If you definitely want to talk, do it out. Please. Mr. Beyala, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u13	The second objective is to end the reproduction of the current momentum of the Greek economy, to decapitate the achievement of unrealistic fiscal targets and by the vicious cycle of the pre-cyclical fiscal policy implemented by the two previous governments, while the economy was in a prolonged recession. This budget achieves a reduction in the objective of ever-increasing primary surpluses and will thus allow demand to be decompressed. There will be some social problems. In the last five years, injustices will be lifted. Low budgetary targets allow the Government to avoid taking further measures in the next period and to create the space to support the lower socially vulnerable groups. The third objective pursued is the social dimension of the budget, making it unique in relation to all previous budgets, as it is of a clear social character, integrating the need for social justice. Our concern is to halt unemployment and poverty, which, due to the policies of the previous governments, had taken a humanitarian crisis dimension. In addition, we will redistribute resources from non-productive expenditure to multiplicational expenditure, thereby giving further impetus to the recovery of the Greek economy. At the same time, the social budget is increasing. It increases by 823 million. More than 300 million will be given to health, and after five years, staff shortages will be covered in all nursing establishments. Immediately nine hundred and eighty-five will be recruited and two thousand more forty. At the same time, the 2016 budget is real and realistic. It is not a budget which sets just figures and during the year we are trying to achieve them or - if we do not succeed - we are trying to reform them. We are finally getting away from the deficit budgets, false budgets, which, for voters' purposes, were simply being brought to an end in the first few months of their implementation. This budget frees the Greek economy and, together with the restructuring of the debt, allows for recovery and exit from the crisis. It is real and realistic, precisely because it is based on conservative considerations. This is because three interrelated procedures are not taken into account. The recapitalisation of the banks, which has been completed with great success, is not taking into account the stability of the Greek economy, thereby persecuting once and for all the fear of curtailing the deposits, but at the same time leaving the country from the euro, although some cycles are still working on such methods and trying to raise the issue of Grexit. But that has now become impossible. It also confirms the evaluation of the new programme by the European Support Facility, an assessment which will undoubtedly be positive, given the government's legislative initiatives, since most of the prerequisites have been voted on. It seals the debate on the regulation of public debt, which will be opened immediately after the expected positive assessment. It is a debate which has now been accepted by everyone, within and outside the country, that it must be done. The insistence of some to say that debt is sustainable has now ceased to be heard and that is good. It is good because we all realise that this unbearable debt, inherited by the previous governments, can no longer be served by this economic policy, which feeds a vicious circle between recession, debt and unemployment, but also at the same time a fall in living standards. As far as debt is concerned, it is essential to give a period of grace, but also to extend its repayment, in order to reduce burdens, to put the Greek economy on a path of growth. With this successful outcome, we will have the result of liberalising the forces of the economy, increasing demand and production, but at the same time we will also be given the necessary time to carry out the major structural reforms that our country needs, which we have been discussing for many years, but we are not moving on with this. Five years of austerity and two memoranda have not made it possible within this period to make all the necessary reforms and so we are coming back and looking towards the lenders and our partners that we are no longer behaved. However, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which has the political will to carry out these structural reforms, will reverse it. They are the reforms that our place needs: the reorganisation of the public sector, a public sector which is in many cases a brake on the development of the country and the economy, the fight against tax evasion and the fight against corruption, two key elements which hurt the confidence of the Greeks, strengthen the sense of injustice, create situations of unfair competition and at the same time pay off our economy. However, saving resources from these two parameters is very important. Reform the insurance system in order to be sustainable and to be the pillar of the security of citizens and a deposit of the next generations. Combating tax evasion is a key factor in supporting its sustainability. To create a new development model that ensures economic prosperity and social justice, but at the same time respects the environment, a development model based on sustainable development. The new programme creates at the same time a budget area, the financial area which is being implemented through the reduction of budgetary targets to 0.5% as a surplus. It is well known that the previous programme, setting a surplus of 4.5 %, required additional measures of 7.5 billion euros. These were measures which should be taken. Taking into account the practice of previous governments and their insistence on horizontal measures, these measures would inevitably be affected mainly by small and medium-sized income Greeks. Over the years we have had a feedback crisis with falling demand, increasing unemployment, reducing production. That's exactly the vicious circle we want to break. The 2016 budget, although it has been done in difficult financial conditions, has a positive outlook. Efforts are being made to redistribute resources, protect our economically weak fellow citizens, support social policy, support health and social welfare, support development and redistribution of tax burdens. These are the main features of this budget, thus giving a different character to 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to outline briefly the international economic developments, as they are directly linked to the national budget. The medium-term outlook for global economic growth is characterised as positive following the revised report of the International Monetary Fund, as 3.1% are forecast for 2015 and 3.6% for 2016. These forecasts, however, are governed by the general uncertainty that the global economy passes through the sharp changes in stock exchange changes and also the volatility of financial markets. In addition, however, we must bear in mind that at European level, on the one hand, the large refugee flows and, on the other hand, the terrorist activities that have taken place in France make the economic environment more difficult. These figures cannot be captured at the moment, but in any case we have to take them into account. For the Eurozone, the International Monetary Fund provides growth rate of 1.5% in 2015 and 1.6% in 2016, while the corresponding forecasts of the European Central Bank are 1.4% and 1.7% against growth rate of 0.9% in 2014. As we see in Greece, but also in other countries in the euro area, growth remains unequal, both among the Member States of the euro, thus creating an inequality and not cohesion that we are looking for in the Union, but also at the internal level, so that the rich become richer and the poorer. Unbalanced growth at Union level reflects the financial fragmentation of the Union, the different financial situation of the Member States, high unemployment in some southern countries and balance of payments imbalance. In the Greek economy between 2010 and 2014 an economic adjustment of 24.5% of GDP took place. This financial adjustment has been achieved by increasing tax revenue and cutting expenditure. However, they have created a reduction in economic activity by 25.7% of GDP, a reduction which can only occur in time of war. This negative effect is mainly attributed to the fact that a particularly tough, forward-looking programme was implemented without providing for macro-financial compensation measures, as it mainly adopted the logic of horizontal cuts. The general government deficit decreased from 15.2% in 2009 to 3.7% of 2014 GDP. A marginal primary surplus has also been achieved in 2014. However, these figures and the intensity of adjustment have had a serious negative economic and social impact. The fall in GDP by 25.7% triggered the vicious cycle in the dynamics of the general government debt ratio. Thus debt from 126.7% of GDP in 2009 is escalating to 178.6% of GDP in 2014. At social level, the consequences were particularly negative. We all know that from 2009 to 2014 we had an increase in unemployment to 16.9% in addition, to reach 25.9%. This unemployment is mainly affecting young people and the long-term unemployed. In addition, in these years with an orderly plan, an internal devaluation policy was implemented, supposedly, to improve the competitiveness of the Greek economy. However, the only thing that succeeded was an increase in income inequality with the poorest households to record losses compared to the whole economy and an increase in people living on the poverty line and below them. The fall in demand and the downturn in production have eroded the dynamics of creating jobs in the economy, with the proportion of young people unemployed exceeding half the labour force. Moreover, the high rates of long-term unemployed create a risk of being behind the economy, i.e. phenomena of exclusion. The proportion of the population at risk of poverty and social exclusion has increased dramatically, extending even further the difference from the European Union average. The features of the new programme are in a different direction. In the current economic context it is important to set up an action programme for the development and structural changes needed by the economy, of course, together with the key and social objectives, so as to start the gradual restoration of the social actors without imbalances. In particular, the programme places greater emphasis on the necessary structural measures. Furthermore, it is fairer to reallocate the budgetary burden, adopt measures such as increasing the solidarity levy on high incomes, luxury taxes and more so that the weaker and themselves do not relocate. The measures to increase revenue aim mainly at correcting the parametric variables of the tax and insurance system. The insurance system is a system that has been agitating our country for years and its prospects are bleak because with 25% unemployment you cannot expect any special income for the insurance system. We therefore need a new overall planning. With tax reform, tax burdens should be reduced to the low income levels and the escalation of tax burdens in our country's higher economic ranks should be borne. The budgetary objectives, the primary surpluses of the new programme are significantly lower than the previous programmes. It is a result that limits the amount of previous budgetary measures. It allows gradual growth of the economy and increases the credibility of the programme. The change in the medium-term objectives of the primary surplus from the previous programme releases a budget space of 19,2 billion cumulated over the four-year period 2015-2018, calculated on the basis of nominal GDP of 2014. The commitment to significant primary surpluses remains in the medium term and since the economy will have been orbited at high growth rates while the productive gap closes. The negative result of the change in the primary surpluses, as the recent report of the International Monetary Fund says, will be an equal burden on the State's gross financial needs. On the other hand, the positive result will be that GDP will not be reduced by a multiple size. In assessing this choice, account should be taken of the fact that the country's borrowing is currently being carried out at lower cost. In this way, the ESM's lending is at an interest rate of about 1%. In essence, this loan will be paid over the next three years 2015-2018, the end of the International Monetary Fund loan, which is currently serving 3.5%. There is therefore an additional benefit from the interest savings. It is also noted that in the communication from the ESM on the financing of the programme, it is explicitly stated that the debt relief will follow in the form of a longer grace period and a repayment period for the Greek debt. The new agreement therefore further reduces the average borrowing rate and increases the repayment period, thus having a higher maturity. Comparison of lending conditions with the terms of larger projects was shown to have been concluded at a fairly higher interest rates. The new programme includes specific development-related policies, such as: The adoption of medium-term financial rules and reforms for the insurance system, which ensures confidence in the economy and social justice between and within generations. The implementation of structural changes in the markets in products and services, which boosts incentives for investment in various sectors of the economy, is to the benefit of consumers as they increase their available income through the reduction of monopolistic and oligopolistic practices. Ensuring financial stability through the settlement of non-performing loans and the recapitalisation of banks, which strengthens financing of the economy. The restoration of a modern state and a modern public administration to enhance the efficiency and efficiency of the public sector. Improving the effectiveness of the justice system in order to significantly reduce the period since legal proceedings have been instituted by means of judgments and decision-making in order to reduce the volume of pending cases, especially those of a fiscal and administrative nature. The reduction of administrative burdens on enterprises and the simplification or abolition of time-consuming bureaucratic procedures to enhance entrepreneurship. Treatment of tax evasion, smuggling and tax fraud, which are burdened by consistent taxpayers and healthy businesses. The implementation of measures and policies to stimulate employment and tackle longterm unemployment. The assessments of the progress of the Greek economy in 2014 on one point were confirmed, while at the same time, the socio-economic indicators developed unfavourablely or unfavourablely. Private consumption increased at an annual rate of 0.5% after the corresponding decrease of 2.3% in 2013 and was the main component of growth. Public consumption decreased by 2.6% per annum, while investments decreased by 2.8% following the establishment of the decline rate. This trend is largely attributed to the function of investment in equipment with 18.8%, given the corresponding increase in the arms markets at the end of the year. The external balance of goods and services has had a negative contribution to real GDP growth due to the 7.5% increase in exports compared to imports of 7.7%. On the other hand, there were signs of falling unemployment within 2014, while its structure with its high rates in young people with 52.7% and the long-term unemployed with 73.6% demonstrates the high social cost of economic adjustment in the previous years. Amid this weakened social cohesion network, the proportion of people at risk of poverty increased by 0.3 percentage points, reaching 36% of the total population. In the first months of 2015, the search for a framework of agreement with the international partners and creditors of the country and the resulting worsening of the cash flows of the Greek State and the liquidity conditions of the economy caused an increase in economic uncertainty. The deteriorating economic climate is reflected in the significant decline of business expectations in construction and industry and in the first quarter of 2015 it had 56,8 basis points and 81,5 base points respectively compared to 81,5 base points and 94,8 base points in the first quarter of 2014, as well as in the economic climate index in 89,1 for the first 10 months of 2015, compared with the average 99,2 points in the corresponding period of 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u14	Mr. Beyla, I'll give you a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u15	Two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u16	Up to two minutes by tolerance, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u17	The indications resulting from the economic climate observation take greater weight if they are considered in the context of the improved economic climate in the euro area, where in 2015 there have been increases in the index well above the level of 100 basis points. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to remember today the positions of the Officerial Representation, when we discussed the preliminary draft budget for which you predicted very large deficits, but also a great deal of deprivation of revenue. The budget figures now, where you close in the nine months, are disgusting. The reports by the public financial services on public receipts create an additional revenue of around EUR 750 million - equivalent to October 2014 - but also create a much better situation than you predicted. However, the figures do not confirm the deterioration in the economic climate indicators. The annual change in the actual product over the whole month is positive at plus 0.4% compared to the first month of 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind, however, that the 2015 budget is even in December, whose figures will be more positive and that is why the 'Cassandras' are being disproved. One might say that October had better revenues, because they were concentrated on HIS. However, you should also take into account the tenth of 2015 compared to the tenth of 2014. In 2016, the recession in the Greek economy is expected to continue at 0.7% and not 1.3% due to the recurring effect of the 2015 recession. The restoration of confidence in the Greek economy and the lifting of restrictions can allow for a positive growth rate from the second half of 2016. In line with the mildest recession compared to 2015, it is expected to be the evolution of the key GDP indicators. In particular, private consumption is expected to shrink by 0,7 % in 2016. Public consumption is estimated to show a 1% reduction, given the need for further public spending savings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u18	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. The fiscal strategy for 2016 is aimed at achieving the budgetary objectives of the Economic Agreement establishing primary surpluses, which allow for sustainable upward growth and for extending programmes of important social and humanitarian interest. Indicate: Implementation of a new redemption programme for general government bodies and a gradual implementation of the minimum guaranteed income programme, intensification of the absorption work of the ESDP funds, which will be increased by EUR 350 million. The main budget figures for 2016, according to the methodology of the European System of Accounts, give us a primary surplus of the general government and, according to the same methodology, it is projected to be in a surplus of EUR 3.1 billion or 1.8% of GDP. Net revenue on a cash basis is projected to be EUR 49,10 billion, increased by EUR 489 million compared to 2015. Total expenditure is estimated to be around EUR 49 billion, reduced by EUR 263 million compared to the estimate for 2015. The primary expenditure on the regular budget is estimated to be EUR 41,86 billion, reduced by EUR 63 million compared to the estimate for 2015. The Public Investment Programme for 2016 will be a more important instrument for promoting the development effort of the Greek economy. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u20	Mr. Beyla, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u21	The Public Investment Programme is planned to reach 6.75 billion, of which 6 billion are from Community funds and 750 million euros from national funds. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have started the debate on a budget which is different from the other budgets and I am closing with that, Mr President. This budget will be implemented in full. And since he does not take into account the revenues from the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion at all, his balance sheet at the end of 2016 will give us much more positive figures, which will be channelled to the social and economicly weak, in the real economy and growth. In this critical period in which we live, the budget still manages and finds the necessary resources to ease the suffering of our socially weak compatriots. He gives special weight and shows his social face. It gives the mark of the sensitivity of this government, the SYRIZA - ANEL government. It is the beginning of a new course, which in the next four years can show to the Greek economy the new way to differentiate it and change it. So I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this budget. You can also give the signal that we are going to a new era, with new data on the change of Greek society and the Greek economy. But if your opposition tactic does not allow you to do so, at least give your vote on social budget expenditure, so that you can take the first step away from the sterile confrontation and not confirm the saying that "the gar of sorrow gives rise to insanity". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u22	Mr. Beyala, thank you even though you're late. Mr Stavros also thanks you for giving him at least five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u23	The time has changed, Mr President, for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u24	Mr Christos Stakoras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the first left-wing government budget in Greece is a historic event. Its content condensates the country's obligations and reveals the government. It reveals the collapse of the illusions that the so-called 'romantic Left' has been cultivating for years. It reveals its inability when it took over the country's governance to plan realistically, to execute effectively. It reveals the lymphs for a parallel program and a so-called left mark. It reveals its full memorial mutation, reveals that the left soul becomes a sacrifice on the altar for some political power even extreme neoliberal cutting. Indeed, that is what Mr Tsipras meant when in this Chamber a year ago at the corresponding budget debate he said: 'The memorandum is not something from which one can go, anyone who serves it does not easily find the door of exit'. I'm filing the relevant quote in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the Minutes the above passage, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the government majority I hope you have understood that by signing you have become completely systemic. No more, therefore, in the unadulterated reports of ideas of the past decades and the incoherent screams of denial of today's reality. Today, you are serving the most painful of the memorials, the content of which, from a Greek point of view, bear the exclusive responsibility and, of course, you have its property, for which you have, for a long time, been celebrating. Apparently blinded by the lights, you saw the cheese, but you didn't see the light. Today, excuses of the type 'what to do, since they are pushing us' are not politically mature and serious. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the budget figures show that the left-wing rhetoric policy and the so-called left social sensitivity are completely empty. They confirm the country's return to the recession, to the primary government deficits, to the increase in public debt. They reveal additional financial measures, by imposing new taxes, with pension cuts and social benefits. They demonstrate that 2016 will be a worse year than 2015, which in turn is much worse than 2014. New Democracy, the largest post-cultural, in terms of the cumulative confidence of its citizens, a party of Greece, assesses the budget on the basis of the interests of its home country, in its view historically justified ideological and political core, that of radical, social liberalism, the social market economy, a core that leads us to the constant quest for harmonious balance and coexistence between economic efficiency and social justice, in order to promote effectively sustainable growth, employment and social cohesion. In assessing the budget with these criteria, the New Democracy concludes that this is an anti-developmental, economically inefficient and socially unfair budget, which leads the Greek economy to a downward spiral, which forces the country to take heavy steps of noticing and sinking at the dawn. The left rhetorical gold powder is not enough to cover the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the budgetary figures, firstly, the Greek economy, already in the third quarter of 2015, has returned to the recession. The perspective for 2016 is worse than 2015 and the recession will be deeper than the assessments, after the manual revision of the data by the Greek Statistical Authority, resulting in the main assumptions on which the budget is based to become dates. In any case, at the same time as the Eurozone is speeding up forward, the country is backwards. It is recalled that in 2014 the country achieved a positive rate of change, the government received an economy in dynamic growth, while the forecast, then from the institutions, for 2015, was for a significantly higher rate of economic growth, more than 2.5%. Therefore, responsibility for returning and maintaining the country in the recession lies solely with the Left Government. Secondly, the public economy returns in 2015 to a primary deficit and this was after two years of achieving primary surpluses, despite the government taking new austerity measures for this year. And the bill's getting up, it's growing up. This is the painful financial footprint of left-wing government. Thirdly, the Government continues its internal posture of payments, which is consistent with the defence of the punctual memory 'I do not pay'. This means that the government's overdue obligations towards the private sector are increased by 58% - 58%! - since the end of 2014. It is recalled that these had decreased by 60% in the period 2013-2014. In fact, today, there is no schedule for repayment, since according to the budget, disbursements will be adjusted in line with the budgetary possibilities and the cash conditions at a time. In other words, vague, left-wing commitments are being made on a crucial issue for liquidity in the real economy. Really, this is the Left? Fourthly, the amount of the additional measures is initially estimated at EUR 5,7 billion for the period 2015-2016. Of these, the majority concern the extra taxation of households and businesses, such as - to remember - the increase in VAT rates, the increase in the rates of income tax for legal persons, the increase in the rate of the special solidarity levy, the increase in the rates of insurance premiums, the increase in the rates of taxation of rent income - in fact, you had recently withdrawn - the abolition of the one-off payment of income tax, the abolition of exemptions from HNVA, the increase in the advance payment of income tax by legal persons, free professionals and farmers now, the gradual abolition of the reimbursement of excise duty on oil for agricultural use, the increase in the rate of income tax on farmers. What's all this? They are measures reflecting the ideological left-wing obsession in increasing taxes, measures strangling the real economy, measures that dissolve the private sector. Really, does that mean, at policy level, left? Fifthly, the account of the measures will ultimately be much higher and that is because there are measures that have not been quantified. Also, there are measures that have not been captured. For example, the budgetary interventions recorded in the insurance and social welfare system are incomplete and remain short of those committed by the government to the partners. So, there are additional hidden measures. And in order not to forget, according to the third memorandum, there are additional measures of at least EUR 2 billion for the period 2017-2018. This is the huge cost of the left-wing governance. Sixthly, the social budget is sinking into deficits. Social security institutions are planning a deterioration in insurance contributions, pension costs, unpaid liabilities, while the budget contains no encouraging elements for substantial financial interventions in the field of social policy. In fact, it is particularly surprising that the reference to the budget is that 'the cuts in expenditure will relate to sectors which do not directly affect citizens' incomes'. 77% of the cost cut, over two billion euros, however, relates to pension cuts, social benefits and social security benefits. What are these measures? These are measures such as the reduction of main and ancillary pensions, the reduction of one-off, the increase in contributions to the OGA, the reduction of the ESA, the reduction of the heating allowance. These are policies that directly and directly affect citizens' incomes. Really, does that mean left? Even the allocation of two hundred million euros to deal with the humanitarian crisis this year has not been possible. So I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not use 100 million in your position. According to a reply from the Ministry of Finance, which I put to the Minutes, a relevant parliamentary question shows that only a hundred and eight million euros will be spent on the humanitarian crisis this year. And next year it is planned to spend even less. It is recalled that for the same reason in 2014 it was distributed as a social dividend amounting to four hundred and fifty-five million euros. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The myth of the so-called social sensitivity of the Left therefore collapsed in this field, as it collapsed in the area of pensions, where instead of the granting of the tenth third pension, you have moved into their cut, as it collapsed in the field of protection of the first residence from auctions, where instead of the notorious "confidence" and "No house in the hands of a banker", we have developments in the last few days, as it has collapsed in the field of the administration of the CSCE, where instead of maintaining it, you are moving towards a significant reduction. Really, is this all part of the left's theory and practice? Seventh: In 2015, tax revenues are the lowest in the last decade, despite the additional taxes imposed by the Left Government this year. This is mainly due to the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment. Result? The dues of private individuals to the public continue to increase by month and are now being formed at EUR 82 billion, higher than EUR 10 billion from the end of 2014. And in 2016, tax revenues have been projected to increase by 2,000,000 euros since 2015, while the country will be in recession. There will be increased revenues with the country in recession. Therefore, the provision of increased revenues is based exclusively on the new tax measures of 2016 and obviously the burden-sharing is even more unfair as indirect taxes are mainly increased. Really, is this the so-called socially fairest government on the left? Eight: Reduced budgetary targets do not in themselves ensure an important financial area. The government turns to triumph. Financial objectives depend on the state and dynamic of the economy. Follow a reasoning: If the lowest primary surpluses were sufficient to avoid new measures, the government this year should have, with the reduction of budgetary targets, already pursued an expansionary fiscal policy, reduced taxes and increased wages and pensions. It does, however, exactly the opposite: it increases taxes, puts new taxes, cuts pensions, cuts allowances, and even by numerous measures of what the lenders asked a year ago, in order to achieve far higher budgetary targets. And this unfavourable development is due to the fact that the economy has returned to the recession. That's why. So for the first time since entering the memorandum, the financial result of a year, 2015, with additional austerity measures, is worse than the financial result of the previous year, 2014. Really, is left-wing government still insisting that this is a great achievement? Ninth: Banks needed a new recapitalisation with capital requirements due, as the latest report of the European Central Bank showed, to the data created in 2015. I'm presenting the relevant quote to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The result of the recapitalisation is extremely unfavourable for the country, despite the avoidance of deposit haircuts and the less ultimately budgetary burden. This is because due to government delays and recurrings at the completion of the institutional framework for the realisation of the recapitalisation, this recapitalisation adds great costs to the public and taxpayers, depreciates previous capital increases and dramatically reduces Greek private participation, eliminates the value of the portfolio of the Financial Stability Fund and the insurance funds, due both to the depletion of bank shares and the drastic reduction of their share capital shares more than banks. It leads to defilement of the credit institutions and alters its already approved restructuring plans to the detriment of credit institutions, resulting in the loss of valuable assets, as in the case of the National Bank, the sale of all its participation in Finansbank. We recall that this investment was made in 2006 in a climate of rabies reaction of the parties at the time, an investment that currently covers most of the Group's business abroad, is taking a significant part in its size and contributes decisively to its profitability. We therefore call on the Government and today, as we have done in the committee, without getting any answers, to put a key question now: has the strong and high symbolic investment in 2006 been for our national economy and for our country to be advantageous, inconsistent or neutral? Citizens have the right to receive specific answers to specific questions. Several damage has been suffered by the country since the decades of ambiguity and the gray zones produced by the left - and not only - in public life. In any case, there are responsibilities both for the need for the new recapitalisation of banks and for its outcome. Tenth: Public debt is growing again. Debt as a percentage of GDP is around 188% in 2016, increased by 9 percentage points since 2014. And because many times the government triumphs that supposedly finally managed to open the debt issue, the truth is that the amount and the debt profile after 2012 improved significantly. And we don't say so, your budget says so. Evidence? On the budget pages. I am explaining: Public debt, according to the left budget, has, as an absolute size, been reduced by about EUR 40 billion in the period 2011-2014. His average residual physical duration - extremely important point - was 16.2 years in 2014 from 6.3 in 2011 and interest was formed at 5.5 billion in 2014 from 16 billion in 2011. Apart from the budget, however, all this has been signed by Mr Tsipras in the decision of 12 July, according to which - and I will table it in the Minutes - it is stated: the summit recalls that the Member States of the euro area have adopted during the last few years - Mr Tsipras signed that 'in recent years' - a remarkable package in support of the sustainability of the Greek debt, which has brought about a significant reduction in the cost of debt service in Greece. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So how does the government claim to be opening the debt issue for the first time when it supports and has signed that its viability has been significantly strengthened in the past? Inaccurateness and falsehood are a structural element of the left government. However, the fact is that the sustainability of the debt deteriorated rapidly in 2015 as recorded not only in our own estimates, but also in the report of the International Monetary Fund, which the SYRIZA and ANEL government submitted to Parliament in June. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, it is indeed necessary to take additional parametric measures to enhance the viability of the debt. Mr. Tsipras, since he has been cultivating illusions with free dicks for the solution of the problem for years, today he has actually landed and considers the implementation of regulations discussed since the end of 2012 to be a success. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA as a party bears great responsibility because for many years he has rejected every initiative of national co-operation and has fuelled every effort made by the previous governments. SYRIZA, however, also as a government bears great responsibility, for for months that have been dominated by left-wing ideas, obsessed and dogmas have surrounded the country into a system of creative ambiguity, leading it to a complete deadlock. With deliberate or naiveness, ignoring the negotiating rules, he has lost valuable time. Without a strategic plan for the country, he held a pretext referendum. He managed his outcome beyond all democratic logic and finally, in the chaos he created, came frightfully and fearfully to the conclusion of the third Memorandum. The cost of the approximately annual administration of the Left for the country and its economy is great. Part of this cost is reflected in the 2016 budget. Citizens perceive political deception, feel the cost, become miserable and have begun to anger. Now that the ship of the left government is flying from everywhere and the potential political drowning has a high probability, the Prime Minister of Political Terror, but always politically arrogant, is looking for political lifesavings. It speaks of the need for consultation, while it does not serve, and in substance it is being blocked. Truly, how can he say and convince that he means it, when approaching it in a rational manner, and when in reasonable reservations and denials of opposition parties he immediately blames them for lack of sense of responsibility and seriousness? The Prime Minister, the opposition parties, for lack of sense of responsibility and seriousness. It is said by the Prime Minister, who over time refused and renounced every effort to reach political agreement and fought political normality through every available means. They are said by the Prime Minister, who has historically been registered as the owner of his post "not to all". This is what the Prime Minister, who a year ago, during a corresponding budget debate, considered the refusal to reach an agreement on moral order that would bring about everything. It is said by the Prime Minister, who a few months ago politically misled the parties on several occasions. It is said by the Prime Minister, who recently called on the citizens to end the Civic Opposition. And then his speech today also seems to have no firm position on this subject. It has no stable strategy for the country. All the time, awkwardly regress. Let him finally make it clear once in a while what he really wants for the country, except for being a Prime Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] His references on the subject therefore show a surplus of political violence and impunity and a lack of principles, respect for the intelligence of others and a strategic plan for the country. We believe that political and social consultation is an essential condition for the country's smooth and upward development. But it must be built over time, in terms of honesty and national responsibility and not in terms of gambling. It cannot be achieved by lion-like attitudes of the type 'the profits of mine, we share them'. It cannot be achieved by pupil attempts to spread and transfer responsibilities. It cannot be achieved with opportunistic approaches, with dangerous acrobatics, with micro-party calculations. National understanding requires self-awareness, self-criticism, honesty of intentions, clarity of positions. Above all, it does not require credibility and trust. And trust is being built. He's not intercepted or blackmailed. National understanding is won by everyone. It is not given occasionally to anyone, to occasionally cover their needs, nor is it given as a gift to anyone to roam it in international lounges. The Nea Democrat Republic on its long journey has proved to be in a national responsible position. It is not politically speculated on the problems of the country and of the citizens. In voting for the agreement on SYRIZA and ANEL, we stressed that we will constantly assess its translation into measures and policies. The positive policies for the country's progress will be supported. The beneficial policies for weak and medium-sized social strata will support them. All the other strategies and policies will not be supported. We don't give a white check. For all these reasons, we are voting against the State budget of 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Stakoura. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor since the Golden Dawn. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u27	Mr President, those who do not want to hear should go out. It's not a coffee shop here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u28	Mrs. Zaroulia, please. There is no procedure at the moment. It's about a break. You have the floor, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. As the chairman of the committee responsible said, Mr Balaurras, the budget is the mirror of the policy pursued by the government, its ideology and its positions. In this case, we see a budget identical to the budgets of the last four memorandum years. You're the two sides of the same coin. Your ideologies come from a common point of view: a memorandum, measures, an ethnoic policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u30	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u31	Over the past three years, when the budgets came, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group was constantly in the bars. He did not let the process begin, we had objections to objections, charges, complaints of treason were all that SYRIZA was saying at the time, who used a argument identical to the one he used, or the then antimonetary opposition, genuine or even colossal, because from what we see most of it was imitan. All the above that Nea Demos said at the time, including SYRIZA, were fully confirmed by the figures, which were so loved and loved by New Democracy, and which we see SYRIZA has begun to worship, as we heard from his rapporteur, who, at this time in this "converging" speech, referred to numbers and numbers that most probably didn't have an idea. The suicides are thousands and they're still going on. Thousands of our fellow citizens, self-sufficient, have lost their lives not withholding all these memoranda measures. Unemployment is the largest in Europe, which is not falling below 25.5%, despite the 'friendly' efforts of the then New Democracy - PASOK to convince us about development, but also despite SYRIZA's 'friendly' efforts to convince us that with the new budget everything will change. The debt of our country, despite the huge sums we borrowed by strangling the Greek people, is growing, is growing constantly. Operations are closing by thousands. Many of them have fled to neighbouring countries, such as Skopje, Bulgaria or just above Romania. In Romania, the business environment is much better and more stable. Imagine! Bulgaria and Romania have a more stable business environment than Greece. Some larger companies go elsewhere, such as in Luxembourg, which is a country of the European Union, but which has a tax regime ideal for very large companies, which we do not allow. We had the destruction of primary production at all levels, at all levels, at all levels, whether it has to do with the agricultural sector or with the craft industries, or it has to do with anything, for the benefit of third parties, for the benefit of those who now as Institutions come and impose on you - what we will do, what we will produce, how we will produce it, how much we will cost it all. We had incredible immigration from Greek citizens. Hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens in recent years have left Greece of growth, as you say, and have gone to all the lengths and backs of the earth in order to find a job. In their overwhelming majority, and they are people educated, the best minds, which in theory, if there was growth in this country, as you say or as SYRIZA promises, should stay here and be in the front line. Instead, because they saw the reality, they stood up to leave and go anywhere. As for the social consequences, we have also seen them through suicide. We have also seen the consequences for health and education. We are talking about public health as unscrupulous as anywhere else, despite the valuable efforts of hospital staff who are fighting against everyone and taking it all away. We are talking about education where we have dramatic deficiencies in both staff and media and all we see is the Ministry of Education with various nationalists, such as Mr Liakos, who believes that the Macedonians were jihadists and all the rest of them in other cases. But when this gentleman is number 2 of the Ministry of Education, you understand the grim future for our country. What about national issues? Destruction at all levels. We have become laughing and laughing at everything, including the Albanians, who took back their signature for the AEZ, the only deal we had made for an AEZ with Albania, and took it back. We have remained on the substance without EEZ anywhere and no one. The Turks are struggling in our Thrace. The Skopje perpetuate and do whatever they want, conferences in Thessaloniki, conferences in Florina at the expense of our country, our history, and we do absolutely nothing but look at them and say that everything is going well. We have reached a point, after the PASOK-New Democracy coup d'état, that 40% of Greeks are either below the poverty line or just at the poverty line and that they are pessimistic to those who are below this limit. We have seen all these years, the years of growth, as you say, of the memoranda, which we have taken all these measures for our own good - but we do not see this - the prices of products rise despite the fact that the barley has many times negative. The products that the housewife goes to buy each day are constantly growing. And since we had everything that SYRIZA said and agreed to, it now brings the first budget to SYRIZA Government. It is the first budget of the 'first time left' or'second time left', it does not matter. With one expression, we could say about the budget brought by SYRIZA that you are licking where you were actually spitting. Mr. Staguras, if I'm not mistaken, he mentioned something about the signatures they put on. The anointed people tell us something about the signature and something else we put together and about the consequences we have if we put it elsewhere. You have refined your beliefs, those you had, everything you said before, until the day of the referendum, because from the next day you did the biggest prick that has ever made political formation throughout the earth. You have brought the third Memorandum, the most important one, the most difficult one, the worst, of course, with the help of both the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River, which is now, for opposition reasons, saying theirs until the data changes. You voted for it, too, in the New Democracy, in the PASOK and in the river, so now you have absolutely no excuse to fly opposition krone. You have brought a budget, gentlemen of SYRIZA, purely material, purely anti-developmental, purely tax-suppressive and nothing less of all. You brought cuts of 5.7 billion. Imagines the mail Chardouvel charity in front of the cuts that you have brought. Then, for that famous mail, talking about 1.8 to 2 billion meters, you had lifted the staircases! Finish and finish the caves of your predecessors, the New Democracy and the PASOK. And all of this at the demand of all those who have devastated you until now and who are pilgrimizing them now without any misgivings. You are crushing what the rights of the Greek citizens have left on the altar of an "balanced" - within the introductory - budget, because all the substance for you now and for the international and domestic loan sharks, those who give you the orders, is the balanced budget and does not burn them down for anything else. As Mr Tsakalotos said yesterday, if I am not mistaken - we must be consistent with our obligations, with the measures that we have taken in the recent past and with the measures that we will now take and fully respect our commitments, regardless of whether these measures lead us with mathematical accuracy to death, the extermination of an entire people, the economy and society. Besides, you too admit it. In his speech today, Prime Minister Tsipras said that we are under the tough commission. So, you don't do what you want, but what others impose you. The "first time on the left", according to the budget that it brings, speeds up as much as anyone else in the past the "evaluation" - always on the introductory market - the sale on the essentials of public property, public land and everything that is about to do with the public, the sale of all those until before the first time the "first time left" was rock and vertically opposite. But now you have pilgrimaged Mammon, and you are taking what you are being brought to you. The "first time on the left" gave the final shot to the already rotten, corrosive and dismantled banking system and the capital controls, for which you said there is no way we could have it, but now you have imposed it on all Greek citizens and they can't run the risk on their money. It's you who made one more recapitalisation. Who now remembers SYRIZA's election posters referring to banks and writing 'no house in the hands of a banker'? Who remembers what you were saying about the CFSF, this legal person private law, which was financed with tens of billions of Greek people, loaned to help - within introductory forms - the banks and tens of billions of previous recapitalisations, became a paper war? However, the Greek people still owe it, and they are all unpunished, and the leaders of the CFSF and the bank and all. As they are unpunished and all those who gave sea loans over the years to your corroded parties. New Democracy, Mr. Stakoura, owes 200 million. Less or more? How much is it? After all, you say it yourself and your candidates go out and say, "It's a lot of money, we can't pay it back and we have to get a haircut. But for the Greek people no haircuts so far. You never dared to say it and you don't dare to say it yet. The banks have 34 billion funds and have been valued at 1.5 billion euros now. Their real value is around EUR 26 billion. Really, how did they all know, many years now, at least a decade ago, that the banking system that had more than fifteen banks would shrink into two banks at the most, which would at some point be foreign ownership at some point now? How did they know all this ten years ago? But they are the same ones who knew and that the Stock Exchange will be a good opportunity to get a very large part of the Greek people's coin, such as the ones who knew about the "toxic bonds" that they threw on the market and played up to institutions and insurance funds and lost the Greek people's money and they went to the pockets themselves, as they went to the Stock Exchange. They are the same ones who have put the petty people in hands, those housewives who invested their money in the Greek state decades now and that in one day with the PSI you took them all and gave them nothing. This budget has incredible cuts in wages and pensions. There are two questions to be asked here. Asked first: How did they know from the beginning of the memoranda - and then there were discussions - that wages will reach Bulgaria's wages? In 2011, please, these were done. How did they know that? At that time, it was funny that Greece had 250 euros and 300 euros! Well, here's the reality, because these are the salaries of young people who are now employed in a private business. If you look at the terms, they are colonial terms Banana and nothing less. How did they know all this five and six years ago? It's all planned! The difference, of course, is that Bulgaria has entered the European Union with a minimum wage of EUR 50 and has reached it close to EUR 200-250 and Greece having EUR 800 wages, EUR 1,000, EUR 1,200 is brought to wages less than those of Bulgaria, because apart from wages, it is also the cost of living. The cost of living in these countries is much lower, while in Greece it remains high. With hatred and wrath, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you're accomplishing everything that has to do with primary production. You made decisions, you passed laws unbelievable. You are the first to bring measures where you will literally dismantle the primary sector and the agricultural sector. You are the first to think and we are the first wine-producing country to which, in your decisions, we put excise duty on wine, a product that gives jobs to tens of thousands of people across Greece. You destroy the pharmaceutical industry, another healthy industry, with tens of thousands of employees directly and many more indirectly, for the benefit of your lenders and their bosses, who give them the orders to dismantle anything that is Greek and local. At the same time, you do not let in any way stand up to someone who wants to perpetuate in this country. A Train example is an industry in northern Greece, NAMCO, which has been trying to produce a Greek car, known as Pony, for years. For years now, with various obstacles the Greek state has not allowed it to start production, even though it has been ready for more than two years, for bureaucratic reasons, the file is not closed. For bureaucratic reasons and nothing else! It seems to you that this industry will give more than four hundred Greek families a job, that a Greek car will be produced, which, perhaps tomorrow, in a public competition will also take the contest and will not be taken by the husband of a minister who filled the Greek State with cars of a particular brand, regardless of whether they were rots and completely inappropriate. We see further reductions in national defence, the already occupied national defence. The chief of State went out and said about the disgraceful things that are happening in the Greek army. The Greek army has no opportunity to go some people who are cutting off their deferral because it has nothing to dress them up, it has nothing to feed them. So they're dispensing off-limits so that we don't have military personnel. We did the greatest interclass exercise, "PARMENIA", which takes place every two years and the cost was covered by the sale of ammunition that the Greek army has. Incredible things! Instead of the Greek army being ready to face each invader, at the same time as in our neighborhood the bad chaos occurs in Turkey, it becomes incredible, instead of being a protagonist, we are the tail of all. With what is happening in the Middle East, we are sitting here and accepting the invasion of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants and fewer refugees. Golden the pill, gentlemen of SYRIZA, by applying New Democracy tactics, using words such as "with a mild recession" or, as New Democracy said, "decrease the recession", i.e. recession, in short. Our country's debt after over five years of memorial and unbearable measures has been launched at 180%. So predicted for 2016, with the prediction that it will exceed 200%. Only Japan has a debt greater than 200%, but there are little differences between Greece and Japan. Japan is a country with tens of thousands of industries, it builds everything and it can manage its debt. Greece can't handle anything at all as you've made it. Of course, you are leaving the debt debate and you are making use of the fact that the Europeans will be discussing in the very near future - we will see this - whether they will restructure the debt so that we can pay it to the biennial people, pay thirty generations after the 'fesales' that you have imposed on the Greek people for forty years. You said this budget had to do with social justice. We see it as social justice, as the fine that IRS imposed on a brownhouse at a fair, two and a half thousand euros, while at the same time we learn about new lists given to us by the Germans with Greeks who have made their money abroad, but that the New Democracy government did not want to take them. Mr Samaras and his little boy Papastavrous, this corrupt, were fighting, not to come in any way to justice, publicity and elsewhere. We have also seen Mr Flavouraris with the very fine example of a million euros, with the example that he has been employed as Minister, but that is nothing. The appetizer is with his villa in Aegina with the pool that consumes a lot of water on an island that is anhydrous, which has no drip of water, even though it is next to Attica. He asked him to make a 60% discount more on the account on the grounds that it was a leakage product, regardless of whether this leak occurred in 2011 and 2014. The supreme humiliation of this rotten and dirty Greek state! We see social justice where, through the legislative acts you bring, you pass whatever you want. We have seen the legislative acts with some advisers from Mr Varoufakis, such as this Mr Liu the Chinese one - we do not know exactly what it was - who had made an oral agreement to collect EUR 120,000 a month and who is now paying him and all his fellow Members. Also, by means of legislative acts you have made a sum of EUR 15 million for the transport of illegal immigrants, refugees - because only 10% are refugees and the rest are immigrants or illegal immigrants or as you wish to tell them - from the Aegean islands to Piraeus and at the same time there are citizens who cannot take the bus either. With acts of legislation that you are constantly going through, you are giving tax insurance information to the Congregation of Music, which also owes a few hundred million euros to go to the south and to rejoice against the rest of the Greek people. We have seen social justice with the horizontal taxes you bring to the coronary and indirect taxes that do not touch the rich, but more they touch small and mediumsized ones and the poor. You referred to both the committee and here, Mr SYRIZA's rapporteur, in a realistic budget, as you say, which you do not believe in. The text you had received was very nice, but if you were asked a question, you would certainly not be able to answer it. You don't even convince yourself. We have seen the disgraces of the bank recapitalisation. We've been through this. All bankrupt at a state-controlled bank and appropriate moves should have been made to restore order to this place. You spoke of this budget for the liberalisation of economic forces and increased growth, for sustainable development and other beautiful words, pianos, but no matter what. We saw growth, by taking loans not to put them in the primary sector, in primary production, but to repay other loans and go by saying and increase the debt to the detriment of the Greek people. You spoke about combating tax evasion. We see that. The pleasure of anyone who wants to evade is the measures you take. Tax evasion in fuels is growing. Tax evasion in tobacco products is growing. There is also tax evasion in PPC, because this is a tax evasion, not to pay people or illegally connect electricity, since you have put everything in that account. We have now heard that even the local government organisations, because they too are bankrupt, will put new increases in municipal fees, even though they are not allowed to pay back, but in this country what they want to do at the expense of the Greek people. You talked about strengthening entrepreneurship, and this is where we laugh. In addition to Bulgaria and Romania having a tax regime of 10% and a stable business environment, Albania is now joining the game. Companies with a turnover of up to EUR 36,500 are not taxed in Albania and up to EUR 58,000 the tax will go to 5%. Do you think that any business they can leave and go to Albania or Romania or else will not? And then you're talking about strengthening entrepreneurship? This was the sale of the OPCW, with which we were vertically opposed, because we thought that both the price and the terms were colonial, and after this sale has now been made, you are putting new taxes on those who bought it and running you in international courts and asking for 1 billion euros. What's the nice thing? That they will win and you will be called as a country, as Greece, we will all be called together to give the Czechs 1 billion euro. As for the New Democracy, it applies opposition tactics and says it will vote against this budget, even though it is identical to their own, for voter and regular reasons. They talked about a surplus of political hardships. Politics is to speak a party that has ruled, colluded this country for about forty years and led it here that led it. He owes more than EUR 40 million as a party. The day before - he says - they went to pick up some copiers who bought them because they couldn't afford to pay. They have offices with a rent of EUR 90,000 and they have to pay for over a year, and that's where they're getting ready to evict them. Otherwise, they want to resavour this place! He also voted for the third memorandum, no matter where it whistles. As for your general opposition tactic, it's for crying. You have no idea, gentlemen of SYRIZA, from growth, from progress. You are going through national measures, like the previous ones, and that is why you are flirting and you have already started the contacts, which have already been arranged. We all remember the photograph that Mr Flamouraris is in with his notebook and on top he says: 'Leventis shortly later'. He's here later now. Here's the conversations that's getting ready. They are the so-called pillows. History repeats constantly and constantly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] If you want to talk about what would be a development budget - and a lot of that is what you have said - we should tell you a few things, closing down. Because a country that owes about 800 billion -380 million is debt and over 200 are banks and 200 private individuals. They therefore go beyond 800 billion - that is, such a debt cannot in any way be repaid by anyone, even by a very rich country which would have production in all sectors. Therefore, there should be an audit of the debt in order to verify that a large part of the debt, the greater, is burdensome and illegal and that is why it should be deleted under international law, what you have said and now you are doing it. And Mr. Kammenos said it, his party. Direct claim of the holder of a loan. It is a huge sum, which you should budget as an income in the state budget and from there to see what is going to happen. All sacrifice of primary production and protection of Greek workers, Greek farmers and Greek products from the throat of third-world... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two minutes' time, Mr. President. Statement of all banks, since they are all bankrupt, for the benefit of Greek borrowers. Delete loans. It has been a long time ago, but the fact that our democratic society does not dare to lure them, because our lenders will 'do' us. Rehabilitation of households, rehabilitation of micronomists, restoration of all those who helped this state to the benefit of the state and who, unfortunately, in one day 'black' them. Eliminate - yes! - the public sector carcinomas. Whoever these are, they should be corrected and eliminated. But not constantly cover up and do nothing at all. There could be a lot of things, as long as there is will, faith, but above all love for the place we live for. And it seems only on Golden Dawn, which is the last embezzlement of this nation, can we find all this. Clearly we are voting against this budget, a memorandum budget, a budget which is the last nest of Greek citizens. Golden Dawn will always be on the front line of the games to bring justice and order back to this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and four educational attendants from the 4th General Lyceum of Alexandroupolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You will also have the opportunity to hear Mr Koutsouko, the representative of the Democratic Alliance. Don't think only Mr. Panayotarus would have been here. Come on, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. As you can see, the Democratic Reconciliation is a majority in Parliament at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u34	All right, others will enter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, who would really expect that the budget of the so-called "first time left" government would be a mixture of hard neoliberal measures, ideas and management deficits, and much more that it would save a huge burden on Greek citizens and the Greek economy! The costs arising from the fact that this government, this majority with its election and post-election lies, with its experimentation and demilitarisation, destroyed all hopes of declaring the country from the Memorandum and the crisis and re-enclosed it for the next three years in the third most prestigious and unnecessarily inappropriate Memorandum. This cost the Greek citizens even those who have not realised it, who have not understood it well, understand it gradually, understand it every day, understand it now that the lies are done and the account is here. The financial interventions in the third memorandum amount to EUR 7,2 billion for the period 2015-2016. The breakdown of the account is 4.2 billion in revenue and 3 billion in expenditure and is reflected in the budget that we are debating. But that's not all. It is much bigger, ladies and gentlemen. It is the loss of the property of the Greek public, i.e. the Greek taxpayer, since the elimination of the value of the shares of the Financial Stability Fund in the four systemic banks, which is estimated at 10-15 billion, if we think that the share value of the CFS's portfolio was 22.5 billion in December 2013, 17 billion in September 2014, 13 billion in December 2014, 6.5 billion in March 2015 and now in October we ask the government to tell us what it is. It is estimated at about 2 billion. It is the GDP loss estimated at close to 10 billion on the basis of the budget forecasts, but the evolution will be more unfavourable. They are the 41 billion missing from the banks due to the outflow of deposits that led to the recapitalisation and its disastrous results. It is the cost that we will incur in public debt as a contribution from the Financial Stability Fund to the recapitalisation of the two of the four systemic banks and is estimated at about 5 billion. They are the several thousand unemployed to be added because the rate of unemployment started in 2014 was up. They are the few thousands of borrowers who will find 1-1-2016 faced with the auction procedures. It is the cost of stopping payments from the state that has, as you know, affected all the professionals, the entire market. It is the cost of draining the cash from the resources of the general government that has cancelled small and large projects. It is the cost of the disinvestment that has improved the Greek economy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the account of seeking a new framework of agreement with the international partners, as the government says elegantly in the government's draft budget report. But this is translated into pure Greek, what our people understand, as the cost of a political wandering that has a name and surname: the name and surname of Alexis Tsipras and Mr Panos Kammenos, because these orders are carried out at times by the Finance Ministers, their own confidence, they have the main responsibility for what is done and what is not done a year now. So if we want to calculate this cost of governance, SYRIZA - ANEL, we need to sum up the additional tax burdens, remove pension and social benefits reductions, multiply the problems of the Greek economy and divide the hopes and expectations of the Greek people that this government has swept away. These unbearable measures would have been unjustified if the SYRIZA's pre-election and post-election policy, which overturned the country's budgetary and development prospects, as was apparent at the end of 2014 and anticipated by the international organisations for 2015, were not mediated. This overthrow led the country to the edge of the cliff and to the third most prestigious and unnecessarily indebted Memorandum which incarnationd the country for a three-year period and a new inappropriate 86 billion loan. These measures do not lead anywhere, as the cost of restoring budgetary equilibrium and returning to the primary surpluses is multiple of the result and will be excessively burdened by the Greek economy. The relationship and the mixture of the measures in question with the prospects of the Greek economy form a problematic and deadlocked landscape, political and social, as social reactions are exacerbated, productive forces are inactive and the government proves to be completely weak in managing the situation, since not only has a plan to overcome the Memorandum commitments, but is fully implemented and completely non-negotiable. Uncertainties and insecurity dominate and the government proves incapable of shaping the conditions that would lead to the reopening of the Greek economy, so that the additional charges would not bring it any further. The forecasts of the budget, even in their improved version in relation to the preliminary draft, but disproved by ELSTAT's latest communication, both for the implementation of the 2015 budget and for the development of the 2016 macroeconomic and budgetary figures, reflect the recovery of the Greek economy. Unfortunately, we are returning to deficits and recession. GDP, instead of forecasting to be 184,3 billion, is estimated to go to 175,6 billion, by 8.7 billion less. It is smaller than the 2014 GDP by 2 billion. Instead of anticipating a surplus of 5.5 billion or 3% of GDP, the primary result will be a deficit of 349 million or 0.20 % of GDP. We are, unfortunately, returning to the unsuccessful budgets of the electoral circles and the informal policies. The tax revenues of 2015 fall below the forecasts of 4.2 billion, 2.7 billion in direct taxes and 1.5 billion in indirect taxes. The primary costs of 2015 were retained at the level of forecasts at 41,9 billion, but in order to keep the costs down, the State declared a payment stop, as the dues were spread at 5,9 billion in September 2015 from 3,7 in December 2014. In other words, they increased by 2.2 billion or 59%. I will also table the relevant table for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The derailment of 2015 is complete if we take into account that tax revenue forecasts have incorporated tax measures of 1 billion, in line with the provisions of the Financial Facility Agreement, the third Memorandum of Understanding, with an increase in VAT to 23%, which will yield 427 million, an increase in other indirect taxes, an increase in the advance payment of tax to legal persons, farmers, etc. Consequently, the actual divergence in tax revenues amounts to 5.2 billion. On the expenditure side, where the prediction of implementation goes to the level of the budgets, we must point out that this is achieved, in addition to the increase in the deadlines of 2.2 billion, which I have mentioned, the additional cuts in the third memorandum have also been made by 535 million. Most of this concerns the social security sector, it is 424 million, from the 6% reduction in supplementary pensions and the increase in retention from 4% to 6% in the main pensions. Therefore, the actual divergence in expenditure, if taken into account, is estimated at 2.7 billion. Therefore, for the 2015 budget, the actual deviation, namely derailment, is 5.2 billion in revenue, plus 2.7 billion in expenditure, equal to 7.9 billion. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the real financial cost of SYRIZA - ANEL policy, which overturns the government's argument that we have negotiated smaller surpluses to win a budget space, as the government says, as well as additional measures we have also taken financial derailment. I must add that, because of this policy which has been depriving the economy of liquidity, the government has had to resort to short-term borrowing. To keep in mind that short-term borrowing reached 740 billion in 2015. He doesn't arrest human brains that number, but it's real. And do you know how much this additional loan cost us? It cost us a few million, 400 million. As long as the government was forced to cut off from supplementary pensions. Therefore, the heavy legacy of 2015 includes the budgetary problems, the fall of GDP, the economic uncertainty with deterioration of the economic climate index, from 99.2 basis points to 89.1 basis points for the tenth of 2015, while the corresponding index showed improved performance and, of course, the capital controls and the total lack of liquidity in the Greek economy that will negatively affect investment and consumption for 2016 with the carry over, as the report also says. In 2016, therefore, it carries this heavy legacy of 2015. It is therefore a pity. The recession will continue, even with improved but unfortunately more unfavourable forecasts, GDP will have a decline of 0.07%, private consumption itself with 0.07% and public consumption with -1%. The climate of disinvestment is projected to -3,7%. This seems to be a success of the government, because in 2015 we saw a climate of disinvestment close to 8.4%. Unemployment will move to the same high levels, after the closure of its downfall, where this seems to be a success of the government, as it does not grow and remains there. The budgetary objective to achieve a small primary surplus of EUR 919 million or 0.53% of GDP will be achieved if it is achieved, with a lot of blood, by the Greek economy and Greek citizens, as the 2016 budget incorporates new measures of 5.7 billion, in accordance with the Financial Facility Convention, i.e. the third memorandum of which - I repeat -3 billion are the new taxes and 2.5 billion are the new additional cuts. According to the budget, total revenues will be made at 53.5 billion. Of these tax revenues are 44.7 billion. The additional taxes to be collected are two billion. It is 863 million more direct taxes and 1,1 billion more indirect taxes. The prediction of an increase in revenue of 2 billion, according to the budget, will therefore be achieved by incorporating new tax measures of 3.2 billion, which others have voted on - such as the increase in VAT - but will not be voted on in the near future, such as farmers' taxation. Their performance, however, is much smaller, as the citizens' tax capacity has been exhausted, the economy is in a stagnation and recession and there is, of course, a fall in the revenues of the previous financial years. The analysis of additional revenues by 3.2 billion is provided for in the relevant tables in the budgetary report. I would like you to know, however, that the National Representation is expected to receive VAT from these 1.3 billions, i.e. it is indirect taxation which will be borne by all Greek citizens, and it is also an increase in the advance tax paid to farmers by 79 million, to free professionals by 114 million, to legal persons by 156 million and so on. Expenditure is projected to be about the same level. In other words, around 41.8 billion, but wage and pension costs will be reduced by 268 million, expenditure on safety, care and social protection will be reduced by 560 million, operating and other expenditure by 560 million as well. These reduced costs will come from the incorporation into the budget of the 2,5 billion cuts and others have already been voted and implemented, such as reductions in basic and supplementary pensions, but the majority is expected to vote in the near future, such as cuts in main insurance. But it is, ladies and gentlemen, to wonder with the government's cheap communication tricks to seek accomplices or to load pension cuts on others. As these cuts are described here in this table, in Table 337 of the report, the majority of them, as I said, concern social security, i.e. 1.6 billion, are the cuts in pensions and other social security benefits. I can read you this painting to see. Increase in the health contribution to the main pensions of 532 million. Enforcement of a health contribution of 6% on supplementary pensions of 177 million. Effect of early retirement on the one-off 77 million. Apply the adjustment coefficient to the one-off rate of 86 million. Gradually increasing contributions paid to OGA 102 million, please, colleagues from rural areas. Reduction of EBRD beneficiaries of 223 million. Financially equivalent interventions to balance the loss of revenue from the abolition of the 5 euro ticket for examination in hospitals 22 million and so on. So that is the account, ladies and gentlemen. I'm tabling the relevant tables for the minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Consequently, the total burden on measures of 5.7 billion, to return to the budgetary balance that the SYRIZA-ANEL policy has overturned and to achieve for 2016 this small primary surplus of 919 million, i.e. 0.5% of GDP, is particularly unbearable and burdensome, since we are taking much more measures to achieve minimal results, as the economy is sinking to the end and has returned to deficits. So no one could argue that the characterisation of this budget as the worst budget in recent years is not excessive. Because at another time and on another economic basis, with these measures, namely so many new taxes and expenditure cuts, we should have multiple effects. In particular, we, as a party, have the right to make the most severe criticism of the government, both to ourselves and to the Greek people. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in 2009, when we started trying to restructure the budget, the deficit was 15.2% of GDP, according to the report. Why do I write that down? Because then there was a lot of discussion, until politically wholehearted and slandering stood on the supposed plausibility of the debt deficits of the Greek economy in 2009, which led us to the need for measures to prevent the Greek economy from going bankrupt. The deficit that we received in 2009, the debt, the multiple deficits at all levels, especially in the twins, the ones that also concerned the trade balance, was the ones that forced us to take measures hard and painful, but which led to the country avoiding non-existent bankruptcy. When we started this course, we were on our own. Then you remember Mr Samaras' antimonetary memorials, known as 'Zapopea'. But then others joined this course. And in 2014 we reached the zeroing of deficits and the starting point of a surplus course for 2015. We arrived at the end of the recession, which started in 2008. We reached the beginning of reducing unemployment rates and dealing with twin deficits, since for the first time in 2013 we had a 0.6% trade surplus and 0.9% 2014. For the first time, too, we have had a reduction in public debt in this period. From 367 billion in 2011, it was formed at 305 billion in 2012, that is from 177% of GDP fell to 157%, thanks to the cut, the well-known PSI. This policy has led to a decrease in public debt service costs, which since 16 billion in 2011 fell to 5.5 billion in 2014, i.e. from 7.8% of GDP to 3.1% of GDP, resulting in a reduction in its average residual maturity, which from 6.3 years in 2011 reached 16.48 years in the reduction of interest rate, increasing the grace period. In other words, it changed all the parameters of debt and, as international houses appreciate, its actual present value would be about 40% -50%. These are the advantages that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government receives to negotiate, as it says, debt, if it proves its ability to do so, because we fear that it does not have it, as in the July agreement, from the commitments made by the 2012 Council to deal with parametric debts, both the time of service of those and the interest rates, the government has granted part of these commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, in this difficult process, there have certainly been mistakes and omissions. The financial staff of the Government are often referred to as'multiple'. However, we have also mentioned many times the mistakes of those who thought at first that by cutting off a few taxes, without taking into account the effects and the general environment, you will be dealing with the problem. Sadly, however, it wasn't like that. We also knew that by taking these tough measures there would be consequences for Greek citizens and that the consequences were that they accumulated a huge political cost and took it as a party. We passed our own political desert to get home in the clearing and barking, Mr. Tsipras, dogs and moving on with the caravan. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] So, at some point, the sacrifices of the people come to the point, forming a much better economic environment, which, as I said, led to deficits in surpluses, a reduction in debt and an improvement in the parametrics of its service, an end to the recession and a fall in unemployment has begun. On the basis of these positive developments, we have created a plan to decapitate the country from the memoranda. But the plan has been overturned and the overthrow has not taken place on its own. The overthrow was because there was a policy of drunkenness and undermining, psalmism, promises and injuriousness, which convinced the Greek people that there was another way, inexperienced, virtuous that some would lend us money and that others would give us oil. In the end, however, they were driven by the harsh reality on a rough landing, because it turns out that there was no other way. Unfortunately, this seven-month period with the closure of the banks, the exhaustion of all available resources, the restoration of the Greek economy to the recession costs and led to the third memorandum and, unfortunately, the cost is not the political cost that SYRIZA or the Independent Greeks will have. The cost is what the Greek people will pay, as I have already described it with the four acts of arithmetic please. The example of banks, what is happening these days is the most characteristic to tell the Greek people that those who were lying and accusing us of handing over the loans to the corpses, handing over the entire banks to those whom Mr. Tsipras called "profit-holders". Do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that this will remain the case. Because it may have responsibilities and the troika that blackmailed the Greek Government 'do it now, do it this way', but don't tell me that the Greek Government that controls the Financial Stability Fund, which has representatives in the administrations of the banks, has no responsibility. Because they accepted the exclusion of small shareholders, because they agreed that the recapitalisations would take place within this short period, without having finished the assessment, without having dealt with the question of red corporate loans. Finally, will one tell us by the government what hands were handed over at least two of the four systemic banks and who will pay for the loss of the Greek people's assets through the dismantling of the participation of the Financial Stability Fund in the four systemic banks? This negative development confirms that 2016 will be a difficult year, without possibilities and tools to restore liquidity to the Greek economy. Uncertainty also does not create conditions for attracting investment. Unfortunately, there are not enough 700 million of the Public Investment Programme for the national part, because the remaining 6 billion are of the co-financed projects. Unfortunately, these are not enough to relaunch the Greek economy. Fortunately, there is the NRP of 19 billion in the period 2014-2020 negotiated by the previous government and we hope that you will absorb it and command it productively. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's basic arguments are two: the first is that its policy has no imperial pre-cyclical measures, as was the case with our own, which led to the recession. This argument is, however, rejected by the fact that we have already voted on the 2015 measures and you will vote in the next few days on the 2016 measures, i.e. in advance. The 19.1 billion-dollar budget space that the government claims to have won for the next three years, that is, the air that it has given the Greek economy, could be termed "air faded", as it is the cost that the government and its policy have accumulated in the Greek economy, which cannot yield any more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. The second argument of the government is that it says 'we make a fair burden sharing'. Fair distribution of burdens with reductions in pensions and benefits to the poor and weak does not exist, much less a left policy. We also know that increasing indirect taxation does not make the system progressive. It makes it preservative. I am tabling the table showing how for the first time the relationship between indirect and direct taxes which had started to be positive since 2010. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, where is the taxation of oligarchy and big capital? Where are the results of the fight against tax evasion? What budget code have you written on? I personally couldn't see them anywhere. So we believe, to finish, that the third memorandum was unnecessarily inappropriate. Consequently, these detestable measures were unnecessarily. You have made it necessary, by destroying the hope of the end of 2014 by destroying with your turbulence the hope that has disappeared as a result of the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people. You yourself negotiated these measures. We've told you too many times. I want to remind Members of the majority that in 2014 as PASOK we said that we would not accept cuts in main pensions and claimed it and managed it. We made retreat. Do you know what the retreat was? We accepted no increases in 2015, because according to the existing law, in 2015 on the basis of developments in GDP and the consumer price index, increases had to be given. That was, ladies and gentlemen, our concession. I say this because soon the pension cut will come, the one you have accepted. Therefore, we will not vote for this budget and for the measures it contains and for the prospect that it does not give, above all, because we believe that the country needs another, long-term project, progressive and alternative policies to attract investment, with reforms and changes everywhere, which can ensure national understanding, social acceptance and above all the mobilisation of productive forces, conditions necessary to get out of the vicious circle in which you have been involved in the country. This project is being built up by the Democratic Incorporation, regaining the chopped thread to unite the labors and efforts and anguishs of Greek citizens, especially to restore hope to Greece, the one you disproved in this vague way, because the people also need hope and vision. Thank you, Mr President, and ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Kutsuko. Mr Karathanasopoulos is the general rapporteur of the JRC, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. So this is the time when we are discussing the first budget of the Left Government, along with the ANELs, of the SYRIZA - ANEL. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Does this first budget, Minister, have anything different from the previous ones? Does the new show anything? Is he bringing something new? We are barely saying that this first budget, the budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL, does not just include some anti-grassroots measures, which are soaked up, it is not just a state budget, which is a tool in the implementation of the current government policy and makes a redistribution from the many to the few, that is, at the expense of the many and for the benefit of the few, but your own state budget marks the escalation of the anti-grass attack. For precisely the new measures that it includes, the new measures that it provides for, come to act cumulatively in the previous measures, which the Greek people have lifted from previous years on their backs. This is the result of the third memorandum, the Tsipras Memorandum, where it does not even bring about a certain section of it, but on the contrary is organic continuity and integration - we say - of the two previous memoranda, the memoranda of the PASOK government and the memoranda of the New Democracy, PASOK and DIMAR government. This is clearly stated in the text itself, which is exactly the text that implements the basic guidelines of the European Union, as they are recorded in all its key documents. That is why the restructuring of the labour market, the promotion and acceleration of privatisation, the further liberalisation of the strategic sectors of the economy, the tax relief of wage and folk, the self-employed and the farmers, the cuts in pensions, wages and public expenditure on social policy are not an original feature for the Greek economy and society, but are the common place of all the Member States of the European Union. And the real result of the "first time left" in the governance of the place is nothing but the unspeakable new burdens on the people's back, which are added to the obligations of the previous burdens. So that was the result of the tough negotiation. And from this point of view it is clear that the new measures provided for are necessary. The table in the new financial statements leaves no doubt about it. For example, the overall new measures for the end of '15' and '16, Minister, amount to about EUR 7.3 billion. Of these, 4.2 billion are new taxes, the extra tax burden. Who pays this extra tax burden, that 4.2 billion? 41% of them, that is, 1.8 billion, are VAT with the changes to the rates you have made, VAT is taxes on consumption, and therefore the most unfair and anti-popular taxes that are primarily called upon to pay the popular layers, because they are. It provides EUR 160 million for new tax burdens on farmers and EUR 114 million for additional tax measures for free-traders. But where it is much more revealing as to the nature of the measures, it is on the expenditure side. From the cut of about EUR 3 billion, which is expenditure, except for the 500 million that is a reduction in defence expenditure, all the remaining EUR 2.6 billion, perimeter, reductions in wages, pensions and financing of welfare and insurance funds, social care. This is the result, the deep anti-grass and the classic result of new financial interventions. And in all this, what will the big capital pay if it pays - the monopolistic groups of these new measures that you say? Only EUR 589 million, i.e. only 8% of the new measures, will be imposed - if it is imposed - on large capital. The remaining 92% who? In this respect, therefore, only a joke can be regarded as the claim made by the SYRIZA rapporteur that this is a fair burden-sharing. If that's your justice, then blindly, social injustice. That is why we are saying that the people must end with delusion. The state budget for '16, not only is an anti-grassroot, not only does it not restore the enormous losses of the working class and the rest of the people's population all the previous years, but it does not even lead to relief, even a fundamental relief for the people's strata. And if we add to these measures the rest that you are planning, such as the new insurance you bring and which will result in the completion of - you, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - the eruption that they had made in social security from previous years, from the past decades and the New Democracy and the PASOK will lead to the demolition of any social security in our country, the insurance agencies in our country. And this aim was the permanent pursuit of the bourgeoisie in our country. To end the social nature of the insurance system, to avoid burdening it, what it said 'the non-wage cost'. So from a redistributive nature social security is most of the capitalist. Depending on the contributions, it will also have remuneration, if these contributions can never be capitalised, because of developments that exist more on the capital markets as a whole. So not only will we have an increase in the pension thresholds, but we will have a further reduction in pensions, and all you commit is for the advance pension, the national pension of EUR 390, which will be at current prices, on the other hand, if the accounts, the individual, each one, the individual account. So the reduction of pensions, the reduction of benefits and the conclusion of all of these - and also of other measures, which we could say - is that the'second time left' to the government is coming to complete the dirty work, that is, the work that has not been completed in previous years both by the New Democracy and by the PASOK. And just because you have to do the dirty work, you also require the consent of the rest of the parties, to become a wide front of political forces, the forces that support and serve the interests of the bourgeoisie and as rollers to fall on the people. Because your utility is precisely that because of it - within the introductory - 'left' character you want to impose class cooperation, that is, the subjection and manipulation of the working folk movement, so that it does not react to this policy. That is why we have been seeing the voices of the rest of the parties and, of course, the leading parties of the Centroon Union and Mr Leventis, who are on TV windows for recent years. The party of the Centro Association is the "milk", the genuine expressionist even of the most lusts of capital. That is, what the big chapter sees, the shipowners, the industrialists in their dreams, but they are afraid to say them openly in the world - because these dreams of shipowners, industrialists and bankers are the nightmares of the working class and the people - Leventis and the Union of Centrals are open. Are these measures, Minister, fragmented? Are they broken? Have they imposed on you, as you claim, the strangers, the troika, the institutions, the ones you work with? You yourself say very clearly in the budget, in the report on page 29. You say, "Achievement of the agreement with the partners, gave a solution to the country's acute financial problem over the next three years, eliminated the risk of exiting the country from the common European currency and finally led to the restoration of the confidence of the Greek economy." So do you accept your work is, your policy and what do you say? That the main economic policy axes are focused for the following period: the promotion of capitalist restructuring - structural reforms, as you call them - the repayment of public debts to private individuals to enhance liquidity, the gradual removal of capital restrictions and the completion of the recapitalisation of banking institutions by the end of 2015. This is a recapitalisation, which took place at the expense of the people, because precisely because of this effort to recapitalise not only was 5.6 billion more, not only did the previous 38 billion of the first recapitalisation made by the New Democracy - PASOK go on the road to liberating the first home auction, and certainly does not include any protection measures for workers in the banking sector. Because of this recapitalisation, you hand over the banks to the capitalists, both domestic and foreign and, of course, the risk of a new recapitalisation for the next period is not eliminated. So this policy is nothing but mystic desires, the objectives of the bourgeoisie, because the urban strategy is nothing but a shield of the competitiveness and profitability of the monopolistic groups, much more in conditions of capitalist crisis. This strategy is expressed through fiscal consolidation policy. Who pays this budgetary consolidation? He doesn't want much philosophy, he's not that hard to answer. It is paid by the working class and by other people's classes, through the tax raid, through the reduction in wages and pensions, through the reduction of social benefits. So even these measures which - here I would like to open up a parenthesis - are temporary in the state budget and you know that very well because of the existence of the budgetary policy mechanism, which is the cut-off, that is, the semi-automatic mechanism, which is directly intervening. Whenever there is a divergence from the budget objectives in implementation, it proposes additional measures. New measures, then. And, of course, this budgetary policy mechanism is not a Greek peculiarity. It is part of the European Union's overall policy, under the single economic governance and the new Stability and Growth Pact, which imposes supervisory mechanisms for all Member States of the European Union. The second element of the policy of this bourgeoisie is the promotion of capitalist restructuring in the market. So we have market liberalisation in a number of sections and sectors, in energy, transport, privatisation of sectors and parts of the economy further, but also in the reform of the urban state, in order to be able to meet the new requirements, in the new needs of capital and monopoly groups, to be more flexible and to grant new sectors, new fields for the action of over-accumulated capital and to support their profitability. The third element of this strategy is the shielding of competitiveness and supporting the business action of business groups. So we have the various development incentives. You are about to bring in a new development law, which will give new investment incentives to business groups, that is, an increase in state funding. In this increase in state funding, in addition to the European funding to be given to the monopolistic groups, they also target reduced primary surpluses. Any financial benefits of the reduced primary surpluses will not go to help the people, but instead they will go to support business groups. Any restructuring, which is taking place in order to restructure the State, will also be included in this logic. The reduction in government debt burdens will not mean a reduction in the anti-grass attack, but any restructuring, on the contrary, is conditional on the escalation of the anti-grass attack, as at least has been confirmed in the past and the first ‘cut’ in 2012. The second element is tax immunity in big capital, the scandalous tax immunity, which will be extended in the next time in the name of tax competition. And here you have too many willing people, from the Golden Dawn to anyone else you want to tell you, "taxing capital, business is leaving." So there is a new tax immunity in the big capital. The third element of competitiveness, the main, the dominant, in our view is the cheap labour force. You are creating new permanent mechanisms for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force without structured labour and insurance rights. You reverse labour relations, you unleash the labour market, you demolish social security. So here is what the permanent mechanisms are for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force to increase the degree of exploitation of the working class from large capital. And, of course, the last aim of the bourgeoisie in our country is to try and increase its anxiety about the role of domestic monopolistic groups in the wider region and to turn Greece into an energy-transport hub. These are not people's goals. They're the goals of the working class. It is precisely these objectives of the bourgeoisie that you are actively involved in, that you have accepted these objectives and that is why you are becoming increasingly involved in the intra-imperialist competition bucket. In fact, you are actively active in this new imperialist aggression, as expressed on the pretext or because of the terrorist attack in Paris. From this point of view, if something is confirmed is that capitalism does not change its character. It confirms that as long as the riches of a handful of capitalists, a handful of exploiters, are increased, at the same time it gives birth to crises, it gives birth to social problems, it gives birth to war, through which it tries to cope with the fall in the profit rate, it gives birth to refugee with painful consequences for millions of people. What we are watching now is the escalation of the imperialist intervention, part of a broader plan, which, at the very first moment, only the JRC had condemned, the so-called Arab Spring, in the context of a project of the so-called great Middle East, which was nothing more than the plans of the American and European monopolies, so that they could redistribute the sources of energy, the new deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean and the control of a large area, which is the passage, both of the energy networks and of trade and of transport, once and for all, to the role of China and of India in international trade. Of course, these plans by the American-Natural imperialists run counter to Russian and Chinese plans in the region. We therefore have a response from the Russians to these issues through participation directly in Syria. In these designs you participate actively. You have, you have the territory of Greece, the ports, airports, the other infrastructure within the framework of the obligations arising from the country's participation in the European Union and NATO. So you continue to actively participate in imperialist interventions and wars. From this point of view, if something is worthy today, it is the people not to allow Greece to participate in the imperialist interventions and wars, not to make available to the Armed Forces of the country in these plans, to close the American - naval bases and not to provide any facility for the people's killers and, of course, not to exploit the attack on a new wave of racism and measures against refugees and their caging in our country. This risk is present. The decisions of the recent summit, on the pretext of the refugee question and Turkey's participation, are revealing. The European Union supports, upgrades Turkey's role in the region, poses new risks to so-called black zones in the Aegean, namely the sovereign rights of our country in the Aegean, creating dangerous conditions for the development of the Cyprus negotiations. Of course, the people's interests, Mr Minister, are not served by any exchange of tweets. People's interests are only served through the struggle against capital, monopolies, imperialist associations, of which you are the best servant. Minister, let's theoretically accept that the economy will be stabilised in the next few years. That is, of course, something that is not certain. You admit it yourself. It is not certain, because there is exactly the risk of worsening economic developments in the global capitalist economy. The possibility of a new synchronised capitalist crisis, as we have the anemic and unequal development within the European Union, which intensifies centrifuge trends within the European Union and designs, which are made for a multi-speed Eurozone, homocentres or even the exit of peripheral countries from the Eurozone itself, is open, something that exists in the designs of the European Union's dominant circles and not just. This also confirms the difficulty, but also the limits of urban management, whether restrictive or expansive, regarding the management of the capitalist crisis. That is why the imperialist centres are struggling to find a way out of overcompensated funds. It is in this context that the so-called debate now taking place in Paris on green development, the green economy, where monopolistic groups are aspiring to take advantage of climate change, so that, having the lead in green technology, they can come out before international competition. That is why it is not because the pain to protect the environment has caught them. Even if the economy is stabilised - to take this as an example - the sacrifices of the people will not end. They will have no end, because exactly the satisfaction of people's needs will be sacrificed every day in the altar of the profitability of big capital and its competitiveness. And from this point of view, if something is seen by these very rapid political developments that existed in our country, it is that there is no way out within the walls of the sovereignty of capital and Greece's participation in the European Union. That is why the opposition that the other parties make to you is useful. It is convenient for you, because it is a resolute opposition, not because they have implemented the same measures in the previous period, not only because they voted for the third memorandum, but precisely because they are trying to trap the popular discontent in a false dilemma if the measures are material or developmental. So, what do they say to the people? He chose between Scylla and Harybden. Choose whether you want to raise your taxes or if you want to lower your wages. Where and where, then, choose to increase taxes and reduce wages and pensions? Is that the way out for the benefit of the people? Oh, no. So, any controversy with other urban and micro-attic parties is a strife within the walls for who will be the most reliable manager of today's problems, who will gain the favor and confidence of the bourgeoisie. This is essentially the case. And that's why, with your policy, you give some people an alibi to go out to the balconies and shout like PASOK. Because, as a parent company, he now wants the votes taken on the subsidiary to be recovered, that is, the customers who were detached from PASOK and came to you. And they're playing it now, and well, fighters and left-wings, and they're fighting about who's left-wing and who's implementing the left-wing policy, that is, a dispute between a mother and a subsidiary. Nor, of course, is Golden Dawn, which every day confirms its role as a useful tool for big capital. For example, here the rapporteur did the cock a little while ago for the supervisory mechanisms, when its MEPs in the European Parliament go and vote for the European semester, which includes the permanent supervisory mechanisms. It is precisely for this reason that it also highlights its unequivocal character. And to all of these questions, Mr Minister, and which you do not answer, but in which the JRC answers, is whether there is a way out for the benefit of the people of this situation. We say that there is, of course, a way out, because it is precisely because there are rich wealthy productive forces in the area that have not been destroyed or which, on the contrary, if something is destroying these wealthy production capacities in our country, it is the action of capitalists either in crisis or in conditions of capitalist development. Capitalist property and profit hunt leave production forces untapped and destroy them. So in order for growth to take place, it is not the question of how technically it will be done. Technically, there may be tools. The question is for whose benefit it will be. Is it going to be in the interest of capitalist profit? So will the keys to the economy be held by the capitalists or will it be in the interests of satisfying the people's needs and the keys to the economy will the working class and the rest of the populace? So it is a question of getting this capitalist development over with, of socialising production instruments, of centralized scientific planning and of labour control, so that you can have a balanced development in the sectors and regions, so that unemployment can be eliminated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. From this point of view, all this must, of course, be complemented, with the release from the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, NATO and the other imperialist organisations and the unilateral deletion of the state debt. And that is why power needs to be changed today and through this change of hands of power the bourgeois institutions of the state are going to overthrow. Prerequisites for this? This is the basic thing that the working people's movement must do today, which is what the conditions are for this great overthrow and ruptured movement. It is, in principle, the concentration of wider people's forces affected by this policy, which are narrowed by the activities of the monopolistic groups and which you are trying to deal with in its logic 'divides and reigns'. To address, in other words, this policy which the bourgeoisie does to divide the people into the base. It is the organization of the struggle, the escalation of the struggle, but also of the forms of struggle, based on the attack on the people and, in essence, the people, where the real opponent, the activities of the monopolistic groups, Greece's participation in the European Union, and not just the staff, who each time has the responsibility of civil management, as the various anti-immemorandum remnants say - political structures - remain. So for that very reason, and the strengthening of the JRC is a prerequisite, for its historic mission is in line with the proposal for a progression that is currently beneficial to the people, a proposal for an outline that meets the needs. And not only are they responding to the needs, but it is also realistic, it is necessary and in this direction it must move through its struggle, so that it can also be relieved of the situation it experiences and has some conquests, but at the same time also open up the way towards this prospect. Of course, Minister, it is obvious, after our suggestion, that the Communist Party of Greece is voting against the state budget for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Danellis has the floor. Your "strong" doesn't follow you, Mr. Dannelly, because you usually...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u39	We have an event with which we are publicising our proposal to change the electoral system. It is an extremely serious effort, involving representatives of the parties in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago we completed the debate on the draft law on grazing land, destroying every record of anti-parliamentary practice: twenty-one articles, twenty-four amendments to the same legislation. You have thrown down every record of the past, demonstrating an incredible precursor of closing loose ends as time ends, with fatal result of the filthy image of an upheaval of legal improvements at the last moment, result of manipulation, amateurism and inadequacy. I call on the President of Parliament to intervene immediately so that no legislative paradox can be repeated. And I would ask, Mr President, that this appeal be conveyed to the President of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between the responsible political parties and the creation of conditions for consensus is necessary as ever. When the political life of the place has been so deeply injured by the bishop and until yesterday's civil war rhetoric of the government parties, a great effort is needed to restore confidence. The unconditional and conditional consensus shown in August by the Opposition was slained and slained on the part of the government. Following last meeting of the Heads of State or Government, charges and threats were followed by committees of inquiry. The Prime Minister thus managed to escalate the tension, seeking and allegedly seeking consensus. For the government not to suffer what had suffered the well - known shepherd of Aesopus, it must understand that by hypocrisy, utensils and ladles a culture of understanding is not built. We must now consult, ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not have to do this above the ruins of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting today the debate on the budget, which we are, unfortunately, still dealing with as a typical process of process and not as the crown of the annual parliamentary activity. The budget of the State is only an expression of the numbers of the political vision and its implementation plan. And yet, in the maiden budget of the "first time left" you are dealing with the economy with a narrow accounting approach rather than a visionary approach. This is all about a conservative and finite approach. Modern budgets are attempting to escape alleged revenues and unassessed costs and concrete targeting. The model of growth budgets now belongs to the past. We should also introduce the so-called budget programmes into our country, which emphasise the evaluation of the results of each action. We no longer have the luxury of directing funds into codes, without a clear assessment of them. Today we should, using the means of advanced e-government, but also the tools offered by modern administrative science, look forward, avoiding hooks and the obsolete model of the classical executive budget. Many factors, such as climate change, the international energy landscape, demographic changes and active employment policies, which are exacerbating dramatic changes both in the education system and in the reorganisation of parts of the productive fabric, are taken into account in the preparation of the budgets of the developed countries. After all, these are the factors that outline the reforms required each time, ensuring growth and prosperity. A modern budget must clearly answer the question why this state budget is available for alpha energy rather than beta energy. It must no longer be seen that budgetary resources are directed towards some area under the logic of 'proof holes and see them later'. On the contrary, it must be made clear that there is a vision, a coherent vision, a goal that must be achieved at all costs. The budget should not be governed by ad hoc guidelines at the expense of reality, without any more general planning. Of course, we, as usual, are far from being such a holistic approach. Here in Greece it seems that we are following the historical joke with fat for the boots of the Russian tsar. It's a historical old joke: The tsar is said to have gone hunting and asked to bring fat to him for his boots. The cost of it was two rubles. From the next year there was a provision in the budget, so the cost of the tsar’s boots was recorded there every year. Ninety years later, Russia had a respectable amount of thousands of rubles for fat for the boots of the no longer present. So we in 2015 are discussing today a static budget, which is far from being a tool for changing the state and society, of substantial change, as the Left must seek. The fact that the vast majority of the filed records are tables and elements which are not clearly related to objectives and political directions makes budget reading a paper-based accounting exercise rather than a dynamic political control tool and development tool. The total lack of explanation of the objectives per Ministry, which are associated with the choice of increasing or reducing its budget, is limited to the political confrontation at the level of numbers. Even at technocratic level, however, there are some structural issues in relation to the way the budget is drawn up. When comparing the one-year budget, for example in 2016, with the expenditure actually incurred, for example, in 2014, whether we are unable to draw conclusions or are in danger of drawing the wrong conclusions. Let us take as an example the cost of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. In summary Table 1 of page 133 of the State Budget for Central Services, the budget for 2016 is EUR 54 million. In the same table, it appears that the payments for 2014 were EUR 52 million. To see what this means in practice, if we have a budget increase in 2016 compared to 2014, we are looking at the report of the General Accounting Office of the State for 2014, which accompanies the 2016 budget. There it is noted that in Table 2 on page 11, the 2014 budget for the Ministry of the Environment and Energy was EUR 70 million, that is to say 18 million more than payments, but without explaining what that means. Does it mean that the payments have not been completed, that is, we owe other money for actions completed in 2014, or does it mean that the budget has fallen completely outside and that there has been no action that corresponded to these 70 million that had been budgeted, or does it mean something in the middle? If one sees a total of Table 2 of page 11 of the General Accounting Report for 2014, the total expenditure incurred by the Ministries and Bodies was 80% higher than the budget. The explanation given in the General Accounting Report is that this is mainly due to expenditure on the redemption of previous years. In other words, in the budget and the accompanying records there are three concepts in the same table: budget, expenditure incurred and arrears due in previous years, which relate to different years. This has the effect of not being able to draw precise conclusions on actual revenues - costs, liquidity and debts. Ladies and gentlemen, the party of minor effort, easy solutions and vulnerable arguments has ended, as has the party of easy and cheap borrowing. We now have to budget, taking into account the harsh reality of the Greek economy and the international commitments we have made. Primary deficits of ECU 2 billion monthly, such as what we had until the first months of 2009, after the doubling of the state over a night, deficits covered by abundant lending, but cheap, on the back of the next generations, are necessarily past. However, it must now also be the rhetoric of the so-called exiting from the recession based on a tougher and more effective negotiation. There are no good and bad negotiators, there are only capable and incapable managers of difficult economic reality. The myth of a few patriots who, unlike national brokers, negotiate hard, I think it must belong to a bad past that we must quickly leave behind. After all, ELSTAT's revised figures show that during the increased negotiation period of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL all the data have been taken down. In the third quarter of 2015, GDP declined by 1.1% compared to the same period of last year, when a few days earlier, on November 13, ELSTAT's estimates showed a decline of only one third of the actual forecast, which is 0.4%. This is because, on 13 November, the figures for the services sector were not yet known, and most of the indicators in September were as follows. However, the actual drop in investment, minus 12.9% in the third quarter, the decline in exports by 11.4%, as well as a number of other factors, have led to this very negative development. In the light of the new data on GDP progress, it is evident that your forecast, incorporated into the budget under discussion, is at risk for zero recession as a whole in 2015. There are good reasons why it is estimated that the Greek economy is very likely to return to the recession even this year, a recession that could move in the region of 0.5%. In short, three years ago, before a dictator you speak three times, we find that both you and your coin are disproved at the expense of a cruel reality. So, on what basis are we talking today? Should you withdraw the budget under discussion, given that all forecasts necessarily go down? Should you then bring us directly and re-examined to discuss real facts? I fear, however, that in any case it will be the fastest revised budget of modern Greek history, since we are literally walking on moving sand. And I don't know, Minister, if the victims of this success are you or us, with the Greek people! The grim picture of the economy is not only described by ELSTAL's revised figures, but also by yourself in the draft budget report, in a rare crisis of self-awareness on your part. I will focus a little further on the results of your hard negotiations on the economy. This year we will have zero growth, although it is being called into question, as I have shown before. The creepy high rate of unemployment remains stable. The banking system collapsed, since you were elected, EUR 40 billion. The euro took the road to the outside or the layers, so that today it is possible for one with an unemployment benefit of the OAED to become a major shareholder in the Greek devalued systemic banks. The Greek banks passed into the hands of foreign funds and the Greek State lost 40 billion as a result of the depletion of the bank's stock market value. Your supposed philosophical person collapses when for this year's budget it will only contain 5.7 billion new measures, which will probably increase, given that ELSTAT's new estimates are worse. There has been a complete depreciation and destruction of the backbone of the Greek economy, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises which, for the second half of 2015, only count 65,000 knots or 138,000 lost jobs. Are you satisfied with the panic you occupy every time your complete absence of planning leads to the awarded equivalents under the pressure of situations that evacuate your control, equivalents whose material dimension is manifest every time for each social group they touch? What should I start? The delays in VAT in education, the backwards with the farmers' tax or the tragic decision to impose a excise duty on wine? Unfortunately, the record levels of 82.3 billion are not astonished. In October the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to the steel industry in the form of a global loan of EUR 1 million, to which the outstanding debts to the public were reached at the end of October. It is only since the beginning of the new year that a new amount of ECU 10.38 billion has been created. The euro. Nearly every month households and businesses, due to economic weakness and a lack of liquidity, leave unpaid taxes of almost EUR 1 billion. The euro. But it is not just the citizens who owe the state. It is the same state that has declared an informal termination of payments. On the basis of the report at the end of 2014, the general government’s outstanding liabilities were 3.77 bn, while in September 2015 they amounted to 5.95 bn, i.e. they increased by 53% in nine months. Do you insist that the line of tough negotiation, without any perception on your part of how European correlations are formed, is it beneficial for the country? What brings us into the 2016 budget? With a phrase, measures and new measures that mean taxes and only taxes in a society that has now lost its fiscal capacity. The total, as we said just now, is ECU 5.7 billion. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. The budget gives rise to a 2 billion increase in taxation. EUR 204 million from the income of natural persons. State funds are expected to invade 1.2 billion euros. In the case of the United Kingdom, the VAT rate is higher than in the case of the United Kingdom, but the VAT rate is higher than in the case of the United Kingdom. In VAT, even the first-year economic student knows that the increase in indirect taxation is a direct attack on the wallet of the economically weak and tramples minimum rules of tax justice. Reading the budget you have submitted, we learn that the reform of the Income Tax Code is looking for an additional EUR 150 million. This means practically that from the changes in the scales, which are on the second list of prerequisites, some will pay more. Who will be the ones to be charged? On what criteria will they be chosen? Now we're going to another supposed red line of the past. What's the matter with the NSA? On the basis of the information you give us, it seems that the drastic limitation of the beneficiaries has been blocked since the year 2016, as savings of EUR 223 million are recorded in the 2016 budget. As far as the insurance funds are concerned, although your contributions to the pension scheme are still lacking - that is why you have also invited us to participate in the project - we note that the allocation for the financing of the insurance funds is reduced by EUR 550 million compared with 2015. According to the budget forecasts, some EUR 470 million is saved from the insurance funds and another EUR 172 million from the public pensions. We are talking, in other words, about about EUR 640 million in total, which is still ECU 1.2 billion. The aim of the ECU 1.8 billion programme is to help finance small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), in particular Have you budgeted where these will come from? Have you thought of any other equivalents? I'm shaking the idea, and I imagine all citizens are shaking together. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are dealing with the primary production sector in a criminal way. There seems to be no policy, no plan for how you think about the primary sector's contribution to exiting the crisis. We are not talking about growth, we are not planning the conditions that will lead us to growth. The overtaxation of farmers is certainly not the way you are looking. The account you reserve them is extremely heavy. I'm numbering: It is 32 million euros from the increase in tax rates. It is 40m euros from the increase in the tax advance. It is EUR 13 million since the gradual abolition of the reduced excise duty on oil. It is 102m euros from increasing contributions to the OGA. Overall, that is, 187 million for 2016. The over-efficiency of the budget you have tabled has no limit when we read the predictions of privatisation. You're telling us that they'll bring 2 billion dollars. the State funds only for 2016. It should be noted, however, that this year you managed to raise the fewer revenues from each previous year. Where, then, does this over-optimistic assessment come from? I think we have no evidence that an ideological disrespect has been abandoned to all kinds of privatization. We believe that this objective is at least utopia. The precarious revenues relate mainly to the use of the Greek and the sale of the Asteras Vuliagmenos, from which provision is made for the collection of EUR 345 million and EUR 95 million respectively. In order to achieve this, however, it is necessary, by the end of 2016, that in thirteen months, the financial closure of these two deprivations has taken place. However, from what we read, the progress in using the 6.2 thousand acres of Greek does not exceed 20%. Accordingly, the renewal of the Boulian Star should go beyond the intention of the Council of State, which could prove a very timely process, since the parties involved have not yet reached any agreement. In other words, it is not at all certain that the State will receive in 2016 the total amount of EUR 440 million from these two privatisations. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance argues that it will collect from unspecified other assets EUR 277 million. It should be noted that there is no explicit reference to the expected revenue from the sale of the PPA and the railways. Are you sure how the return of the new salary is actually financially neutral as you are? You have committed yourself to our partners to bring the above - down in wages and ratings, and for some moves there will also be rationalization and justice. One must inform us - at last - where these negotiations are going and what we have in front of us. We all know that lenders want to reduce drastically the import earnings of low-graduate staff so that the highest wage levels and the positions of responsibility can be premiumed. Can we also see the costs of the ordinary budget? We note that these cuts only by EUR 260 million, from EUR 49.26 billion. for 2015 at 49 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. Conversely, regular tax revenues are growing disproportionately, namely by 2 billion. In other words, it is a matter of EUR 46.3 billion, from EUR 46.3 billion to EUR 46.3 billion, and from EUR 46.3 billion to EUR 46.3 billion. in 2015 to 48.3 billion ecus This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. In other words, the new measures in 2016 come from 90% of taxes and only 10% of expenditure reductions. Ladies and gentlemen, for the untouchable 'cow' of the public, you still sacrifice the remaining live cells of productive Greece. Assisted to the needs of your clientele, you are postponing the major areas, the real reforms that the country and society need more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Dannelly. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we come to discuss the Greek, national budget for 2016, as it has been recorded, the assumptions we have done, the difficulties that we have encountered and the difficulties that we will face in implementing it for the next 12 months plus the end of this year in the other revenues, which, of course, as is normal, will also have to do with the revenues of next year. I will start with two - three main issues, which have been addressed by all of us in the last five - six years. And we need to talk about all this, because in economics, in the economy, but in life, everything has a continuity. Especially in a country's economy, whatever policy is exercised by any government - it has nothing to do with its color or its tactics or the circumstances - whatever the government is doing certainly has a positive, negative or neutral impact in the future. These policies which have been implemented in recent years are well known - and I will say them very quickly - that they have a negative print, a negative impact on the Greek economy, on the Greek family, on the gross national product. In the credit expansion, i.e. there was a contraction, no loans were granted because the banks were destroyed. The banks have been destroyed because they are bored by 38 billion and at the same time, within four years, we have unfortunately managed to create so much unemployment, to throw so many people into poverty and into poverty, or to reduce their wages so dramatic that they themselves cannot serve their obligations towards the banks, to come in a very bad way - and you will forgive me the expression - in a very savage and insulting way to the Greek citizen and to say to him: You are to blame, you have eaten them together with the governments, who have decided on you, you have been living above your potential and suddenly, Mr Greek taxed, Greek family, Greek farmers, Greek industry, all together you have to be punished. This was a very good argument, because only with guilt and complicity could this savage system be applied to the steep reduction and poverty of the Greek population, but also to the Greek companies. So, on the one hand, we have policies on the other, unfortunately, we have people, human lives, families and dramas that we have all lived together for the last five years. Greece's public debt is a huge issue, for the reasons I will prove with four - five too simple papers, which I will leave in the Minutes. One or two papers I will leave them for the first time, because it is also the chance at some point that colleagues or anyone else is interested in what has happened in Greece over the last five years. What happened to the debt? The debt was granted by ELSTAT a month ago at EUR 300 billion. This EUR 300 billion at 87% is a new Memorandum debt and a 15%, 17%, 18% is an old debt. The old debt is what he didn't get bored with. What debt isn't bored? We're gonna ask questions, so we can figure out a bit of why we didn't tidy it, and what the opening was. I will table the classified list of Greek law bonds that existed at the end of 2009, which no one has publicly known until now. There was a great deal of misinformation. The misinformation was that we saved the German and French banks, which held EUR 77 or 76 billion of Greek bonds. At the same time, we made a huge victory, excellent success of the PSI, and I'll say in detail exactly what happened to the PSI. But what was the picture? The picture is clear. Greek law bonds, held by Greeks in Greece, on Greek territory, had a value of EUR 77 billion. All other Greek legal bonds amounted to EUR 218 billion. Inside this is EUR 164 billion in the Eurozone, and the rest is in America, Japan and other places. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Therefore, the Eurozone alone had 164 billion euros of Greek bonds and 77 Greece made us 224. Only Eurozone and Greece. A total of 295, with the rest of the countries. That's all at the end of 2009. I'll testify. Also, it wasn't just banks. We need to know that they had insurance companies, funds and some central banks. It is a full analysis of who held the Greek debt at the end of 2009. Because in this debt the Government of George Papandreou was called upon to make an agreement, 'all of us ate', Kastelorizo, 'I have no alternative' and anything else. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it's time to do the PSI. As far as the PSI is concerned, as you will see in the analysis, I will at some point give my speech to the committee - 'we've wasted' the banks for EUR 37-38 billion. Apart from that, however, there is this very nice contract. This very nice contract is the basic contract of the PSI, March 2012, and it tells us, very simply, how much we borrowed and how much money we need, since we are working. After making the huge success of finding out from the 295 billion, as I said, the 205 billion, with pressure, - because, of course, we did not all participate, but we had to put the banks in the insurance funds, destroy them all in Greece - from which they did not reach the money to be reduced and, respectively, to serve interest, we needed 5 billion, we borrowed, as it says - and I have noted the pages, I have folded them, on page 10-63 billion. And he has the full analysis. The full analysis is on page 2 and says we borrowed 30 billion for LM Facility, 35 billion for central banks, 5.5 billion for accrued interest and 23 billion - says - for the 2012 recapitalisation. At that time, we had estimated 23 billion which, of course, reached 49.7 billion public bonds for the recapitalisation. But then we had calculated 23 billion. All this is, at least, 70 billion euros. It's the pages that go right up to the sums. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what happened to the Greek debt? On the one hand, we left Greek "armless" bonds, about 90 billion euros, "we've poured" the Greek banks and, at the same time, we borrowed more money than we needed to recapitalise the banks and the "hole" we did. That is why the debt has not changed, it has remained in nominal terms, from 312 billion to 326 billion, even though it has fallen - for reasons which are of little importance and which are not of a small amount, and I am not saying it in favour of SYRIZA and ANEL - because we have returned the 11 billion and the debt has dropped because a piece of interest has been served to 300 billion this year. But, at the same time, all these years we have managed to achieve this destruction of the banks, which I have analysed now, and the inability of the government to tell the truth that there was no volunteering. And the examination of the memos - and here I am going to make a small parentheses - is very important. It is not the question of whether we have done well or wrongly, whether we have done what we should have done, but the way is important. It is important, for us who know how to look and ask the right questions, that is, how and why this has been bored, and why another amount has been left unheard of, which comes and is paid to the present, is nowadays that we are talking about and ending every month a number of unwitting bonds. So we're destroying the banks. Because I have listened to Mr Stakoura's speech - I have nothing with Mr Stakoura, we are also friends - on Finansbank I will also come to this subject. We have arrived at this, and it is very important - that we were given 78 billion red loans in 2014, personally, consumer and business. Do you want from 2009, which was 22 billion? Do you want from 2008, which was 13 billion? Let's take it from 2009. Since 2009, from 22 billion to 78 billion, it is 53 billion increased red loans, which you add to the haircut. This dissolved the assets of the banks and we borrowed to complete the assets, but confidence in the banks was lost. At the same time, over 130 billion euros have been committed over the years and the faith in Greece has been dissolved. Unemployment, closure of businesses, red loans and 23 billion 'unacceptable collection'. This is another excellent definition. 'Unwelcome collection', Minister, said Mr Stournaras. In other words, we have 23 billion business loans, which will never be collected, and we are talking about it and we are looking at it. Isn't there a management or a clearing check? What are the 23 billion 'unacceptable' collections? Not the red ones, they'll never be collected. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another piece. There have been too many banks in 'good' or 'bad', they have been absorbed - well and correctly absorbed, in order to clean up the system - and, if you like, they have been recapitulated in many ways right and wrong. Small cooperatives had to be recapitalised. All the money was given to redeem the banks. I insist on the banks. I have a certain reason for that. How, however, could these'red' loans ever, along with the destruction of the economy, bring growth? They could never bring growth. And there comes a government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, who takes all this hot ball and had to manage it this year, when we took the government. We had at the same time the artificial expansion of the use of bonds. We had to manage a new memorandum that forced us to implement it. At this point, it is excellent to say that there was a pre-agreement on the memorandum. On pages 11 and 12 in my report - I will leave it - I have the tables and show that since June 2014 the International Monetary Fund, without any objections from Greece and the Government at that time, had said that measures 2015-2016 are - I have summed up - 5.7 billion. They called them in June 2014. These new measures would be without a memorandum. It was assumed that the contract and the Memorandum expired in December 2014. At the same time, we had other subsidies cuts and social contributions, but 2,300,000. The total is 8,066,000 euros. These measures were not on any e-mail Hardouvelis. These were in a report from the International Monetary Fund, which it had contacted the Greek Government. At the same time, what did the Greek Government say to us? What have we got in our hands? That's what we got. We didn't see it at the time. Didn't we see the contract and the deal? Poor thing. But we also caught the promise that there was a negotiation that would bring more happiness. Because we had lived through great happiness for five years. What was the next happiness? It was the preventive credit line. Nobody knew it wasn't work, what that means. He told you I'd have a pillow. I don't know for free billion-dollar pillows in our own business. In Anglo-Saxon we say 'There is no free meal'. On pages 9 and 10 in my report I show the pieces of the preventive lines of the ESM and the International Monetary Fund, which are prerequisites for a memorandum, prerequisites for a relationship with the International Monetary Fund, a loan, to give you the free "cushion" the good, the nice, without a memorandum, and strict supervision. So all this had been agreed, and it was - if you like - possible solutions from February onwards. We didn't get that solution. Because the memorandum that they gave us was a memorandum by November, which had the same measures as we are forced to take now, to close the holes of the previous government and a few which were created this year - we must also be honest, there have been problems in the Greek economy this year, but at the same time, we have to tell the partners - because, if you want the state must also have a follow-up to certain things - 'yes, we have a financial need of fifty-four billion over three years' time. If you give me money by November with five and a half billion, in November I will want another deal, other measures, another memorandum." So the government did very well and took a package to cover financial needs of fifty - four billion, which are liabilities born by previous governments. It's all Memorandum loans. Yeah, we got it at 1% interest rate. I am not saying, Minister, that we will take them at 1% interest rate, because taking care of the bonds issued by the ESM over the last two months is 1,6% to 1,82% of the twenty-year and the forty-five years. So there's gonna be more to us. Again, if they are what they will give us - but because the sums are the same, they will come to us - these costs are clearly less than 4% of the 4.25% we have had for the three years. So we have done a very nice and very good 'haircut' in this three-year memorandum debt. This is a very clear success. At the same time, when practically the measures of the previous governments had a height of 58.6 billion - they are present on page 21 - they are measured beans. These were measures of 58.6 billion. We don't say GDP ratios. GDP automatically fell. The measures, however, are budgetary. You cut costs or cut horizontally. Measures 58.6 billion, of which 2/3 were PASOK and 1/3 were New Democracy, were measures for which no one apologized. They all said 'We must take them'. Okay. What should we manage now? Where would we get the money? We wouldn't go to the drachma. We had no such order for any reason. What do we say to our families? Would we say we're going to the drachma to find the fifty-four billion in three years, or the remaining three hundred we have to pay? If it's not three hundred, it's two hundred fifty three. No, we had to bring in a deal to redeem the banks. At this point, I'm going to talk to my friend Christos Stakouras about the banks. And I come back to the issue with the banks, because it is a key issue in the economy. National Bank: We will also say about the Financial Stability Fund and the value of the shares. All the evidence is public. Over the past five years, the Bank’s share of Finance Bank has been stable. Here, on the board, he's going up, he's in Turkish pound. I printed it from Blumberg now before I went down because I heard Christos. He came up when elections were proclaimed. Do you know why? Because they were sure that the bank would have to be sold and they all bought shares and uploaded the Finance Bank price. The share of the five years is stable, no peak. But, now, let's see what the National Bank did, the excellent management of Mr. Tourkolia of the New Democracy and of the PASOK. Do you want to see when she was listed in America and she's still here? That's the five-year board. Success from 2012 and then you see it, don't you? One of the nearly 100 dollars has fallen to zero. This is the success of the National Command. You're talking to us about deception in the five months, when you've got open books, and we know what book building means, where the other guy comes to get you, because he's already lost 15 billion? And we'll tell you exactly how much he's lost. This is the stock of the National, ladies and gentlemen, in America. Do you want Greece, too? I'll tell you about Greece. It's no accident. It's the same picture. The "excellent" course of the National Bank, which is to blame for the loss of the value of our book building the other day, so that we don't go to "BBRD" and not go to a deposit haircut in Genaris. Again twisted by the SYRIZA and ANEL government. This is the share from 30 euros to zero 2011 to 2015, dollar 2011 to 2015, Turkish pound and again the national one 2011 to 2015. Destroy. Success story! I'm filing it in the Minutes. That's the success story! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Don't say now about the other banks. I caught her because Christos mentioned her. Because here's another thing about plundering and knowing how to do the job. The job, because no one gives you money, will come down to you, drink your blood. How's the blood gonna drink? Well: Financial Stability Fund, the honorable Mrs Sakellariou on March 26, 2015 tells us that we have taken 48,200 for banks, that we have used 39,952, of these 37,267 bonds and cash 2,5 billion. We'll get to it now, because here we have responsibilities. My point of view. We had 39 billion and 40 billion bonds to recapitalise our banks and we got 2.5 billion cash. We didn't use the bonds we already borrowed with interest from EFSF, and we used cash. That's what I'm tabling first in the Minutes and it's going to be one of the evidence of the examination. I'll say it all, but I'll leave one - one of the cards. We go below and come to the value of the banks' shares in 2012, depreciation of the shares in the HFSF portfolio of 5.4 billion. Excellent success of 2012. Use 2011 in 2012. Use 2013: 5,607. Use 2014: 9.616. Suma: 25 billion. They gave us redundant portfolio shares of 25 billion. We got 25 billion minus in February. And he comes and tells us in the report on July 2, 2015 -- I've noted them, I've just made the additions up so that someone doesn't look for all the papers - that on March 31, the market value of the fund portfolios in the four systemic banks amounted to 6.6 billion - we've taken 49 and were 6.6 in March, seven months ago - compared to 11.6 on December 31, 2014. A portfolio of 11,6 out of 49 is admitted on 31 December. Do a subtraction. How much did the previous ones lose? Thirty and so. I'm not saying it. Mrs Sakellariou says it, which she left and which was an official, and here it is a detailed year - the year-end of closure and depreciation of shares, the negative results in parentheses. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What do we need to talk about now? That non-performing loans are a brake on the growth of the economy? Yes, we have said that funds are committed, because the bank is afraid to lose them and not make them in liquidity. What do we have to do now? Why do we make a budget which, yes, is not a memorial? I am against the memorial, but I cannot hear things that are clear inaccurate to me and we must testify to the truth, read it by anyone who wants to read it. Debt should be restructured in such a way that the cost of its service is low. Here, too, we must say that the loans we have received for the successful PSI do not all have a period of grace. We're paying for it, and now that we're talking. Anyone who reads the contract and sees the payments back, will see that someone has since '22, some pieces don't have '22, we even pay them now. What does that mean? That the debt service is a clear obligation, which must alleviate the Greek State. We said that the measures already decided by the IMF were 8 billion, with 12.6 billion financial gap in 2015. We are taking measures - almost six - for the two years, covering the debt. Shall we say again about the surpluses? Same again? About 4.5% by half? Same again? Again between 8 and 9 billion a year, the 10 billion surplus to cover the interest almost equal, which we brought to 1/3 and which remains a budget gap? Let me remind you here that in March we have a Memorandum of Understanding to bring forward a development programme. That is where we must all be controlled, as three hundred MPs, not as a government of SYRIZA and of Independent Greeks. We'll all be checked. Are we going to bring a program to the table, to the partners who gave us the money, to review January, to bring all the prerequisites or whatever we need to do and bring the programme that will bring a better day for the next three years for Greece, a development? And here I am going to say one point - and I will get a little insurance, so as not to eat all year long, there are too many issues - that we have had the luck of talking to the Committee on European Affairs today with the President of Luxembourg, who is also the chairman of the respective committee on labour matters. The question of the social contract has been raised and whether all the working ministers together should consult the Eurozone and at the same time have a committee corresponding to the ECOFIN Economic Committee, so that the workers can go and meet at some point and finances, because economists want to cut costs and others want to pay wages. There was such a thing - as there is in corporations - against. In practical terms, in my suggestion - and the Luxembourg Minister agreed completely - and then we analysed it in private - I said: Greece has made a lot of mistakes. One of its major mistakes was the management of the reserves. Forty years we put 20 billion a year with 0%. He didn't even know, he didn't have it in his head, he looked at me like that. He tells me, "Really"? 'Yes', I say to him, 'that's what we did'. He says, "How did you do it?" I say: “We probably did it well. I say, 'I do not know what you have done'. He tells me: “Others have lost money. The Norwegians lose money." 'Yes,' I say to him, 'The Norwegians lose money, but here we should not all decide together whether we want to be competitive or set a model for managing the funds' reserves? Who's gonna manage them? In what way? What risk? When the North has negative interest rates and pensions do not come out for the next twenty-five years" - not to analyse it now, he understands it - I say to him, 'What are you doing? Are you going to risky investments? Are you likely to lose money? You're telling the truth to the people that I'm putting my money into a risky investment so that they can get the money out to give pensions in the next twenty years, but there's a risk that I'll lose my money. Have you told the people?"? It says to me: 'No'. I say, "Shouldn't you say it, or should we when we have to do it?"? It says to me: 'Yes'. Where do we end up? That Europe is currently working and must work in this direction: when it builds the insurance policy, which involves a very large part of society, at the same time it must marry with purely financial. Because if he does not marry with the purely financial part, then we will come before huge surprises. These surprises will bring us financial hardship. We will not have money, not because we will not only have contributions, but because the money from the reserves has been lost or their value is reduced to zero. Here the government next year should see in these meetings how to bring this issue, if you like, and at the same time to a consensus in Europe and an agreement. Because, as we have agreed, growth in Europe must have many speeds. Mr. Juncker said so. I won't agree entirely with him. As I explained, when you have an index and it puts Malaysia, Singapore, Greece, France and Côte d'Ivoire, and it says that Greece is 89 "and Singapore 5" and I compare myself with Singapore or Germany and I take steps to be competitive on a scale that it doesn't have any connection, that is, I cannot be with twenty-five countries. He's got it and he's agreed. I say to him, "Change it"? He didn't answer yes or no. I have to compete south, I have to compete with the Balkans. I have other competitive advantages, I have another situation, I have another social relationship with their social partners, with the institutions, with wages. I cannot compete with Europe and that is not my role. It is not my role and it was never my role to compete with Europe in itself or with the countries of Europe. At the same time, since there is no credit expansion and no growth in Europe, jobs are not being created. At the moment that we are talking about whatever budget, whichever country in Europe has a great risk. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. The only reason they find that Europe is not going well is China. I also agreed on that. He tells me: "It's all China's fault? Is it very nice to show someone that it is because China is not developing, so our economy is not going well, but should we not solve this, because it is not just our client, our balance, China?' It says to me, 'yes'. What are we gonna do? What's the Juncker package gonna do? Are we going to work and workers to compete exportly with each other, so that we can export to China again with a recession? Oh, no. We need to see another model of development in Europe and we need to put it down. We have to say that the last studies in America say: migration is increasing unemployment. I'll just say it. Why? Because migration flows have competitive wages lower at the level, the poorer and they throw all the level of the economy and the middle class. There are too many studies. This will also happen in Europe. What's going to happen here? It would be a good thing if the Europeans were to become poorer. We must take some measures as a Europe. The integration of immigrants into the economy is a huge responsibility, but it also has huge economic costs. When the German counts almost 13 thousand euros the person's costs of joining and budgets 13-18 billion in the budget and budgets this year a deficit due to immigrants, what does Greece do? Is it building walls and amylacees? We must, not only take money to incorporate them, but see how competitive they will probably join the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u42	Thank you. We arrive at the last rapporteur-general, Mr Mario Georgiadis, from the Centrons' Union, which I call on us to move to Step and then agree on the rest. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Unfortunately, once again the Chamber is empty. They speak of the general rapporteurs of the parties and we see around the twenty colleagues watching us. I hope that the people in the home will hear what we say and have an opinion. Following on from the long-time and no substance of a meeting of the political leaders, the need to convene an Ecumenical Government is more urgent than ever. We need technocrats and a European standard minister. So once again I won't be happy for any of you in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u44	We had Papademos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u45	We've seen who rules all these years, we can put Papademos on, we can put Stournara, whoever you want to suggest, we can put him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u46	One of the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u47	I agree with you, one of the same. We believe that there should be an Ecumenical Government with technocrats. Now, from there on, you may want to continue in the same policy of all these years, because it may be of interest to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, you are obviously panic. You've been trapped in demagogy and populism, which you've been blindly following all these years. And you come and verify me with everything you said right now. You cultivate a war rhetoric and address the humblest instincts of your voters. You target their stomach and not their brains. You have turned democracy into the name of the citizens into a mob in the name of the people. And now this indignant mob, which is your creation, will punish you both in words and in actions. You promised more state, more ruffles, more increases and more privileges and all that without labor and suffering. And now you, who have so far been a model of irresponsibility and demagoguery, are calling on us to assume your responsibilities. And not only that, but you also call us irresponsible through the recent protest of the Prime Minister. This is your course. So you'll close your political history. That's how the story will record you. Like the politicians who started in demagogy, they went through irresponsibility and ended up in humiliation. If you think that we - because the Golden Dawn has mentioned - will be another jungle and - as the President of the Central Association better says - another porn on your way to this country, you are being misled, gentlemen. Let's talk a little bit more specifically. In a country where production and GDP fall to the cliff at a steady accelerated pace, we need drastic solutions immediately. We'll all be happy if we can give arrogant, huge wages and pensions. We are neither sadistic nor alienated from the problems of the classes that are suffering at the moment. Unfortunately, however, if we continue to pay state benefits in loan, both Grexit and international isolation will not be long before they come. They've already made their presence felt. Right now that we're talking about, we're the first country in the world in deflation, with a 0.9% index. Products, that is, services are also cheaper, but for citizens they still seem expensive, and that is quite simply because the fall in incomes is greater than inflation. And to say it more simply: We are a balloon that is dispersed dangerously and no one knows its consequences. And we're going on. We are within the five worst countries in the world in the unemployment and state expenditure indicators, in relation to GDP, and you are completely ignoring the figures. And you are gloating everywhere that we need more recruitment of civil servants, even today that we are talking about. More recruitment, more government expenses, more loans, more taxes. This is your economic model and it seems clear through the 2016 budget that we have in our hands right now. You have zeroed the value of banking institutions and you are pushing them to foreign investors and, to use your terminology, you are selling the banks to foreigners. We told you that banks are not schools to take over five days and whenever you want to reunite them, without any consequence. You didn't hear us. That's what you've known for so many years to do, that's what you've been doing. Occupation and party assemblies you knew how to do in schools and in universities. Unfortunately, however, this still goes on to do in the state. We lost more than 30 billion bank shares in a few months. And officially now our bank deficits are purchased by foreign institutional investors. Not because we suddenly became followers of international markets, but because we cannot do anything else. We have to do that. If you do not recapitalise the banks, the citizens will lose all of their deposits, as the European circus for the protection of deposits of up to EUR 100 000 will be valid from 1-1-2016 for Greek banks, which has already been in place in Europe for over a year. Your voters obviously don't know that. They never knew. And you, with Mr Varoufakis, sold madness to the Eurogroups, to the detriment of Greek depositors and the Greek economy. According to the Brussels timetable and the relevant international news report, our partners are preparing for the first evaluation, which is, in theory, scheduled to begin on the second quarter of December. In practical terms, however, these work will begin at the beginning of January. This means that the long-standing debt debate is likely to move for February because the assessment must first be completed and then the public debt sustainability examination must be officially started. Here we point out: during the first assessment, the government could also put the costs of refugee in order to take account of the 2016 budget. Greece, however, has never made such a request, while other countries, such as Italy, Austria, Belgium, France and Finland, have already done so. So what are your intentions? Just play inland dangerous games and look for scapegoats in your demagogic rhetoric? Even today, your ignorance and glaring omissions are very expensive. But let us change the subject and move on to the fundamental contradiction of government policy. We are clearly talking about the oral pursuit of development, and in practice all you care about is keeping your client regime. We have recently voted to help the European Bank for Reconstruction to put EUR 500 million in loans to the private sector. Of these, you yourself in your explanatory statement predicted an increase in GDP, which is 0.4% growth. And not just that. You foreshadowed fifteen thousand recruitments for all workers. Look out! All these benefits arise only by assisting the private sector with loans, not subsidies, only EUR 500 million per year. In other words, you have the solution in front of you. To come up with growth, you must help to breathe the private sector, but do not move there. Instead of bringing growth, consciously and criminally, you bring recession and deficits. And all this, of course, to keep your election clientele. I am so specific that even the ordinary Greek citizen who is watching at the moment will understand the values that you represent. According to a document forwarded to Parliament by the then Minister for Labour and Social Security Mr Skourlet in April 2015, the amount of 11.8 billion is planned to be allocated this year to finance the social security system. I shall mention, for example, the following elements which had been transmitted as a response to a question asked by Mr Aegakis of the New Democracy concerning reforms in the field of labour and social security. Firstly, for PPC's insurance fund all Greek citizens will pay 578m euros, i.e. 16,000 euros per year state grant per insured person of PPC. Secondly, for the OTE insurance fund all Greek citizens will pay 534m euros, i.e. 10,000 euros per OTE insured year. On the other hand, for the funds of the common mortals in the private sector: EUR 2.8 billion for IKA, which means only EUR 2.300 a year for state subsidies per insured person. For the OAU, TEBE that is, EUR 954 million, i.e. only EUR 2,650 per year of State grant per insured person. In short, for your favourite children of PPC and of OTE, we are all giving grants to their funds of EUR 26 000 per year per insured person, while at the same time we are subsidising the private sector with just EUR 5 000 per person insured, whether he is an employee or an employer. I would like you to answer from now on: If only the state grants a pensioner of PPC EUR 16 000 a year, then what pension is such an insured person taking today? Is it five times the average pension for a hard worker in the private sector? The state that you have built decades now, and you and the old - new - that is to say, SYRIZA - considers a pensioner of the ECHO to be worth five times more than a private pensioner. Your ruffles, your customers want with five times more dignity than common and prolonged private-sector mortals. Do you remember that in the middle of the negotiation last spring you subsidised PPC employees with 6 euros a day for daily nutrition purposes, for their hamburger? In the social outcry then PPC's Mr. Fotopoulou answered "those who disagree must drink vinegar". Now, gentlemen, the vinegar will be drinken by you to the last drop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u48	Balsamic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u49	You're laughing, you're laughing. I'm glad you're laughing. Now that you're running panic for cross-party consensus, you're supposed to exalt the insurance, now you're gonna drink the vinegar all by yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u50	Balsamico!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u51	Whatever you want. And a balsamic and apple tree you can drink. There's no problem. Your enthusiastic multitude of voters, which you have raised all these years, will turn against you. Now that you do away with your wide signature of state subsidy to the insurance funds, your own voters will be after you on the streets. So do not seek between us to find some to assume your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u52	What are you talking about? What's that talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u53	What can I tell you? Will you deny me my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u54	Easy, easy, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u55	Aren't they after you on the street? We saw Mr. Kumucako too, who was betrayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we are just three of us, and the cocoon, don't do parasites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u57	I'm at least glad you're listening to me, and you're reacting. Now the insurance system and the institution of state subsidies to the insurance funds are falling apart. Now the Greek society will pay your client state. Why? Because neither you nor any government of the past decided in time to cut the privileges of rummeat in the ECJ and in the wider public sector, of course. This provocative grant to their insurance funds has a long history, not only in pensions, but also in wages. I would also like to say a little bit about the New Democracy, which claims to have liberal ideas within the character of the right-wing People's Party. At the end of the Karamanlis governance, we found that at the time the public debt had been disbursed and that the deficits alone in the three-year period 2006-2009 amounted to more than EUR 80 billion, according to EUROSTAT's official figures. How did you manage to make it so bad I can't understand. Even a government of service to have 'in the relapse', such a disaster would not cause the economy. And I'll tell you how you did it and let you react, I'm young and I'll tell you two things. Not only did you not stop the detention of your old PASOK client state, but you continued it with your own children at a multiple rate. At the end of the administration of Karamanlis the average salary of the CECE amounted to EUR 40,472 a year and was twice as high as the private sector and the largest public sector. The TEC with the highest annual average payroll was ESAP, with EUR 56,554 per employee. And what did you understand from that? Even today Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulou publicly states that we need more civil servants and many in the New Democracy are nostalgic about the Karamanlis period and would like his return to the political scene. Not only did you regret the crimes of the past against the country, but you would gladly repeat them, without remorse, without second thoughts. And now you're in the antimony fight again. Nor would the aristophane comedy think of such a scenario! But let us move on to the essential issues of insurance and current problems. The pension, as Mr Leventis has said, but also the way it is perceived at international level, is money to be able to live decently. He's nobody's individual pigeon so he can break him at all times. Partisanism and oversized stateism have broken up every concept of the social security fund. Every society that respects itself, every state that confesses to having a social person, must pay a sum from the budget to live decently for those who have crossed the national retirement threshold. This amount must be shared equally among all beneficiaries. However, when we keep pension penthouses exclusively for the purposes of recycling the party governments of corruption and of rupture, there is no room for provision in favour of the weak. However, a central, democratic, liberal policy ensures the presence of a social state not through credit, but through a strong productive economy that gives the state money. Only when the private sector produces money can we rely on the social person of the state. Otherwise, we will only manage to increase public debt and reduce GDP. And at this point we're here, and that's why we're beating you the alarm. If we want to be able to give pensions to three, five, ten years from now, we must immediately make the country favourable for private investment. If we want to have good hospitals, good schools, good municipalities, the solution is not to wait for more loans and more funds from the NRP. The solution is to increase tax and insurance revenues from a healthy productive private sector. As long as you consider the private sector an unscrupulous cow that will feed you eternally and undisputedly, society will suffer for an unlimited period of time. At the moment, with any direct and indirect taxes you have voted to apply to the private sector, it is mathematically guaranteed that you will have a reduction in tax revenue and a further recession. And not only this, more Greeks of creative age will leave our country to work or attempt abroad. And all this together means not only minimising tax revenues, but also minimising insurance contributions. In addition, by imposing 100% of the tax advance and typically and effectively attempting to confiscate the property of freelance professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises. According to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the Supreme Court in Canton, Geneva: "Forum that does not allow you to live from your income without selling your property is equivalent to confiscation of your property, because it is expropriation and not taxation." Understood? Shall I repeat it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u58	To the lenders, tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u59	To the lenders and to all of you who have been ruling over all these years. I repeat to understand it well: "Ford that does not allow you to live from your income without selling your property is equivalent to confiscation of your property, because it is a expropriation and not a tax." Let's go to an example. Let us assume, then, that a private worker, a small and medium-sized enterprise, generates a net income of about EUR 1,000 per month, that is, EUR 12 000 per year in its first year of operation. The EUR 7,000 automatically goes to the state for income tax. I mean, they're left with a professional of 5,000 euros to live. If you make an average, it's about 400 euros a month, without calculating extraordinary annual contributions. If he goes supermarket and pays his TECH, he doesn't have a euro left in his pocket, either for heating or for cigarettes or for coffee. We don't discuss the fact of having a family. Not a reason for that. Why, then, should this man be working longer? To pay your ruffles? And he will steal the state and go to Bulgaria and Cyprus to do his business and he will never pay his insurance funds. Do you know why he's gonna do this? For you, gentlemen, all these years you have seen the enemy of society as anyone who dares to open up a business. In addition, you are condemning him to be chased by the local manager for life, so that, if there is a future economic advantage in his business, the local managers can wait for supposedly sample checks, to discover supposedly 75% infringing rates of 75%, such as those that you delivered to us with the budget, as a result of the ILO's control mechanisms for 2014. Mr. Tsipras is being asked a few days ago for the exact reason of his opposition to demagogy. Answers that everyone in the Opposition is doing too much. Well, no, Mr. Tsipras. You're not a student party anymore, not even in your 15-member school. You fully bear the responsibility of zeroing the value of banks, the country's return to primary deficits, the escalation of recession, unemployment and deflation. You will drink the bitter glass to the end, Prime Minister, until you yourself deliver the amount of governance to individuals of common acceptance technocrats. We won't tell you. We will all decide who will be the one to take over the helms together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u60	It's Jamer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u61	I don't know if it's gonna be Christmas. Let it be whoever the majority decides. But a technocrat in the context of a universal government of national salvation is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u62	Proposal, proposal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u63	With technocrats again? Tell us no one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u64	The Centro Association, gentlemen, will not burn. The power of reason will not burn it. Don't look 'Funned' in our own parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u65	Proposal, proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like to say that our country needs reasonable and wise as ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u67	Don't you know technocrats?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u68	With the voices, will you solve the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u69	Mr. Balaura, we're coming to the end. Calm down! Go on, Mr Georgiadis, but addressing the Bureau and the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Our country needs to glorify the central ideology and there is no better proof than the words of Adamadios Korais, with which I would like to close my speech today: "I love freedom, but I would like to find it enmity between justice and humanity. Freedom without justice is purely robbery.’ We therefore vote against the budget at first reading and we shall be placed in the Saturday vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u71	To put it right in the Minutes, the budget has not been voted at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u72	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u73	You're voting against the budget, aren't you? Ladies and gentlemen, the list of general rapporteurs has been completed. I think we can get into the special rapporteurs. They have 15 minutes each. I suggest that they speak for sure four, possibly five - it's 22.10' - so in an hour, between 23.00' - 23.30' to finish this evening's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u74	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u75	We are starting with Mr Ioannis Giolas, a special rapporteur for SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget is the first budget of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and is a starting point for decoupling the state's tax policy from its up to its own small-party policies. I think it is clear to all Greeks that the traditional axis of their tax policy by 2014 co-existent with or alone was the service of groups that were financially or politically conserving the government mechanism and not the award of tax justice. Instead, at the time when the country's borrowing costs were low, especially after the adoption of the common currency, fiscal policy sought to reduce the social inequalities and the country's development path, dozens of prerogatives were given irresponsible and indiscriminate, or rather indiscriminate, but distinctly directed by name and address. The two parties of power have constantly undertaken tax reforms, which have always been projected as undeniable successes by the respective Minister of Finance, the so-called successes. Not only did they have significant economic costs in the dynamic development of society, but they were deliberately complicated and encouraged phenomena of tax evasion and tax evasion. Tax revenues have become the driving force behind power parties' interlocutors and not the country's modernisation. Meanwhile, the lame collection and control mechanism created the perception of the impunity of offenders, indirectly directing law-abiding and dignified citizens to hide taxable incomes, at the expense of those who did not have the same potential. I'm saying all this to remind you. You are fully aware of your mistakes, gentlemen of the governments so far, and of the practices that have brought us today, to be accountable to unelected institutions, to have lost part of our dignity and our national sovereignty. I am telling you this because, from now on, we are changing direction and I want you and the Greek people to know it so that it can be optimistic about the future, because it will never be the same catastrophic practices to repeat. Even now, in the crisis, instead of moving into areas and reforms, with nails and teeth you kept everything you could from the country's economic pie for yourself, the corrupt political regime and establishment, for specific oligarchy interest groups, in the hope that we will return to the ages of the “bulk cows”, to do the same again. No, gentlemen, we'll disprove you. We are determined to move on to radical reforms, and we mean it. We take the responsibility of driving the country into development under social justice rules and with a financially weaker programme. The 2016 budget opens the way for a reform of the tax system in a simple, fair and stable manner. First of all, in the sense of fair distribution of tax burdens. We are therefore promoting tax policy measures that produce a positive financial result, while in many cases it relieves citizens and especially the low-paid layers. The basis of fiscal policy is proportional and progressive taxation, so that social inequalities are not reproduced and non-expanded. Secondly, the tax system must be simple and pluralism avoided. To close the so-called windows and allow the taxpayer to understand his tax obligations, to do, as we say, his planning as a proper householder, businessman and investor. Thirdly, a stable tax system, aimed at boosting economic growth and employment, because fiscal stability is the primary element of long-term family and business planning and without this we will not achieve sustainable growth. The repeated changes in the tax regime that have been imposed in the past have been toxic to the economy. On the contrary, we seek to put an end to the vicious circle of this policy. The social figure in the budget is confirmed by the balanced distribution of tax revenues between direct and indirect taxes, because the Greek tax policy of the last two decades has clearly emphasised indirect taxation, so that the State mechanism can be financed from the most populous sections of society and not from the most strong and economically able. As you will read on page 66 of the Budget Report, in 2010 the reason for direct indirect taxes was 40 to 60, deviating from the average of the European Union, which is 50-50. Our main concern is the gradual reduction of this dispute by fair taxes, properly distributed. According to the 2016 budget, the provision of direct indirect taxes is 45 to 55, and in this perspective we will continue in the coming years to improve this performance. This strengthens the government in its work on social policy by transferring the tax burden from low and medium-income to high, proportionate and progressive taxation. After all, our intentions are self-proof. We have also sought to tax incomes above EUR 500,000 with an additional factor of 12% annually, but unfortunately the institutions have been toward us. I have not seen any of you so far protest. We are following the levels of taxation set by the OECD countries and we are not going to allow Greece to become a low-cost economy and a tax haven for businesses alone. But, alongside fair taxation, the absolute priority of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is to improve tax compliance and strengthen collection, necessary. To alleviate the burden of law-abiding citizens, we need to exhaust all means of finding offenders to reduce undeclared economic material and reduce late payment to the public. In particular, last year we have taken important action in this area and you cannot ignore it. VAT collection is increasing, with a leverage of the use of plastic money for citizens' daily transactions and clearly with the systematic actions of the tax-supply mechanism they have rendered. The clear example, which has been mentioned and is well known, is the Aegean islands, where in the past quarter tax revenues alone in focusing and staying increased by 23% in the year that passes, compared to 2014. Also, in total in Tier III books - we are talking about S.A., E.E. and large - the VAT we collect increased 28% compared to 2014, when just 10% increased last year. We are continuing to monitor closely the economic elements of the Lagard and Luxembourg list. Suffice it to say that the state mechanism had been so delayed in controlling these cases, so that even the limitation of any offences would be forthcoming. That is why, in December, we too proceed directly with legislation extending the limitation for at least one year. We are seeking in every way - and for the first time for the Greek Government in a way sincerely - tax cooperation with foreign countries in order to identify inaccurate tax statements from depositors abroad. Our actions, in fact, are confirmed. Under the mandate of the Financial Prosecutor Panagiotis Athanasios, a thorough list has just been provided by North Rhine-Westphalia’s tax administration to the Ministry of Finance with the bank accounts of ten thousand five hundred eighty-eighty depositors to UBS of 3 billion francs. Unfortunately, I am aware that some of these accounts are also zero. He's had the party before, and it's done there. But it's all controlled. At the same time, we implement a law of August on voluntary disclosure of funds inside and outside. I think there are successes there too. We recommend a specific operational plan for the control of offshore companies. In particular, according to the data of the Ministry of Finance in Greece, during the 2010-2014 crisis, of the six thousand audited offshores only three hundred eighty-fours were audited and taxes of EUR 129,5 million were paid. We in the pre-diabetic year, in 2015, checked three hundred and twenty-nine offshores, almost the same number as the one checked over the last four years and confirmed a tax of 94.5 million euros. In 2015-2016 we seek systematic assessment of the maximum possible number of offshores, with expected multiple economic benefits. Let us stress that we have not included in the budget the revenues from the fight against tax evasion and smuggling, which I am sure in passing have already begun to enter, but are not currently fully quantified. Let us remember that so many times your budgets have failed because, together with the institutions, you have put unrealistic objectives that were then disguised. We are more conservative than the institutions in this area, and we do not include anything that is irreversible. It's realistic, true and costly. The additional revenue we look at will be spent on social measures and will be directed primarily at protecting vulnerable social groups. On tax interventions, we hear in the media about additional new taxes that will enter the new year. Let us make it clear that the budget describes precisely the EUR 3.2 billion tax measures that we are going to take. The forecasts are both realistic and final here. We are making it clear that the government is forced to implement a number of measures and such measures that are unfortunately not in its biological DNA. HISFIA, which remains in 2015, is not a political choice for us and in 2016 I hope it will be shaped so that the low-paid layers are not mainly affected. So it is not a political choice. But it is a political necessity, because we do not live in conditions of normality. You know that very well, even if you are struggling and exaggerating - recently, too, the central ones, who do not know at the end and who they are attacking. On the other hand, we have achieved a reduction in the burden of budgetary intervention by some 600 million. The annual return on the measures from 6.3 billion in the preliminary draft fell to 5.7 billion in the final. This means that the state will get 600 million less from the private economy. It has been said enough about unfair, excessive taxation for farmers. But it is clear that your reaction is unjustified and hypocritical. Measures are not designed to affect the poor and medium-sized rural strata, since in compensation for the incomes, or alternatively, we can recognise that there are farmers who have large incomes and who do not pay taxes in relation to the rest of society. Another measure is the keeping of a revenue and expenditure book at the same time as presenting the relevant documents, which helps and is exempted from taxable income, but also the arrest of acts that have so far been made with black and undeclared money. In fact, they will be reimbursed to the public income from extra taxes and VAT, which will not be borne by farmers, but by intermediaries, of whom unfortunately a number have flowed from tax evasion and black money. We therefore intervene to protect income, in particular what is below the poverty line. Finally, we will give incentives and aid to farmers, and we will share the tax burden fairly. We proceeded with improvements to the Code of Income Tax, recognising the reduction in the tax on wage earners, so that they would not be charged with evidence tax for those who have an income of up to EUR 9,500 from wage earners or capital goodwill. We have maintained the reduced rates of the special solidarity levy by 30% for incomes of up to EUR 30 000, only increasing them as the justice for the higher incomes requires. We keep adjusting the hundreds of doses. We streamlined and abolished very strict fines of the Code of Tax Procedure, with the aim of stimulating healthy entrepreneurship. Finally, I want to refer to the issue of the so-called 'black hole' in tax revenue in 2015. At the moment, indeed, the revenues made are 2.1 billion less than the target. However, we must realise that the collecting target for 2015 was set out a year ago, in November 2014, and it is well known what it has mediated: the well-known bleeding of the funds available to serve the debt obligations, which exceeded the amount of 7.2 billion. It was therefore impossible, on the basis of the evolution and the conditions of the last year, to realise realistically, because, in actual figures, the tax revenues of 2015 are fully comparable to those of 2014, which was the year of the success of the New Democracy success story. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you're kind, just a minute, Mr. President, I'll be done. In the first tenth of 2014, we had a 2.6 billion public debt increase, while in the first tenth of 2015, this government and despite the suffocating pressures from abroad and the capital controls reduced the increase - at least we downloaded it - by 536 million euros compared to 2014 in times of bad and difficult. It is clear that the message that the economy continues to move forward and leaves behind in 2014. In conclusion, it should be noted that after five years of crisis the citizens felt unable to cope with the conditions created by the PASOK-New Democracy coexistence. With the first budget on the Left we are taking on the difficult task of rebuilding the state and restarting the economy. The work is not easy, but with patience and perseverance Greece will come out of the vicious circle of austerity and the young people of our country will recognise that sustainable and socially just growth is not far from our homeland. And all of this, because, beyond the figures, tables and diagrams, which constitute economic sizes, the economy is also a function of the psychology of the world, the Greek people, who showed unprecedented stamina and patience, he welcomed with his recent parliamentary selection and has supported his hopes in the government of ANE - SYRIZA, and he looks forward to and optimizes the course of his economic and social recovery and the final exit from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u77	The special rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Karaoglou, has the floor. Here, Mr. Karaglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if a citizen were to ask me how I judge the tenth and first and second-time left-wing government in our country, only one observation could be made: it is not worse. Unfortunately, the truth is that ten months were enough to show reality: a third memorandum costing more than 60 billion and imposing capital controls that strangle entrepreneurship, leading businesses to close one after another and, of course, add more than three hundred thousand Greeks to the long list of unemployment. Unfortunately, everything has become much worse, easily, quickly and most importantly left. Never has one country ever succeeded in driving back to such a short time. Never did a Greek government cause so much harm at home in such a short time. And just to tell you, in a dialect, Varoufakis, you have unfortunately played and lost. With you, however, the whole country has lost. He lost dignity, credibility, time, money and, of course, many opportunities to return to the path of growth. Perhaps the only thing you did was that the chimes for the Iranians and the Bolivians, who were - supposedly - willing to support us. Unfortunately, in a period of risk prevention, you have born insecurity and fear. You have been and continue to act as actors of systemic instability, so today, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, you are the first left-wing MPs who are forced to take your hands with anti-grassroots measures. You are the first left-wing MPs to be forced to baptize pension reductions in pension rationalisation. That's why it's very close to the time when Greek history will give political justice, ranking the government of national cooperation of Anton Samaras where she really deserves it. That government, ladies and gentlemen, did not sign up to the biggest wave of evictions in Greek history, nor did it bring about the biggest wave of increase in VAT. Others deliver the homes to the bankers’ hands and make the householder’s basket much more expensive. That government did not promise to restore the thirteenth pension. Others even cut the eleventh pension today. That government did not turn the House into a complaint arena or cut half the heating allowance. Others have taken consciously to the Greek society and then dived it with hollow words, populism, races on the sidewalks and call on dynamic reactions. I remember you, ladies and gentlemen, the ANELs and SYRIZA, trying to abolish the memorandum by means of a law and an article, to put, on the front of your economic programme, the return to tax, to talk about nationalisation of banks. As I also remember in 2014 the Antonis Samaras government trying to sell Eurobank shares to private individuals for 31 minutes a share, and you to blame us then for committing us to the Greek economy and talking about selling out, for scandal, for special courts. A year later, in November 2015 and after the negotiation of Mr. Tsipras - Varoufakis, your government sells shares of the same bank for one minute of the euro. Because I want to be practical, I will bring you the example I have used in the Finance Committee: At the cost of a urban transport ticket - the new ticket, the expensive ticket, the "left" ticket of 1,40 euros - today one can buy 17 shares of the National Bank of Greece or twenty-nine shares of Alpha Bank or 100 shares of Eurobank or forty shares of Piraeus Bank. Everything you said in the years of the opposition was conscious lies that served your purpose. For the first time a left government, it was the first time that lies were blushed by shame and not by those who dared to say them in election. You built political careers on the ruins of society. The hope that you promised the Greek people became a blade that set the dreams and expectations of employees, pensioners, free professionals and the unemployed. For seven months you said that you were negotiating an unconditional agreement and finally all you had achieved was an unconditional delivery agreement. Even now we hear you call on the left and talk about shielding the economically weaker social strata, but forgetting that social policy is not about caring for the poor, but about ensuring that there are no poor. Your rise in power and zero policy, so far, your government service has cut off the Greek recovery, paralyzed domestic investments and caused an outflow of 50 billion euros in the first quarter of 2015. Somehow this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, and in 2016 the reality is that economics will be one of the most difficult times for all Greeks. The truth is that we will have a significant increase in tax burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises and households, obviously, wages and pensions, and hence drastically reducing demand, which will in turn lead to a fall in the profits of businesses and thus an increase in unemployment. It is obvious that without an increase in the Gross Domestic Product, without investment, without growth, without companies you cannot have tax revenues, as you cannot have tax revenue when the Greeks' tax capacity has now been exhausted. The truth is, you've wiped out the social fabric, that you've actually dissolved the economy. You are plunging the country into the abyss of recession, poverty, unemployment. For now - and Mr Tsipras knows - it is not a long time that your party 'I'm not paying' will be replaced by another, realistic movement this time, the 'I can't pay' movement. And this will be reflected in the 2016 budget, which will in vain seek life for taxes. First of all, let us make it clear that in front of us we have a budget of left austerity, sprinkled with a massive dose of creative ambiguity, a budget of anti-development, ineffective and unfair, a budget without credibility, responsibility and hope. It is unreliable, because the public debt is increasing nine points compared to 2014, so the economy is leaping backwards. Without responsibility, because it returns the country to the recession, so you throw away the sacrifices made by the Greek people for two and a half years and without hope, because it includes additional budgetary measures of an additional EUR 3.2 billion. There are therefore new significant reductions in wages and pensions. In common, the cost of governance Tsipras is painful. We in the New Democracy cannot, but we are not going to follow you on the road the absurd you have drawn up. Counsellors in the economic bleeding of our people will neither become nor sign up to the genocide of wage earners and pensioners. Look what's going on around you. Pensioners are out of hope for a better tomorrow. Exhausted familymen count up to the last minute of the euro. The volume of tax payments is crushing society. I repeat this once again: without tax capacity, there is no revenue and without revenue the budget cannot be implemented. Seeing the real picture of the Greek economy, it is easy to reach the following conclusions. First finding: After two consecutive years of achieving primary surpluses, in 2013 and 2014, this year, in 2015, we returned to primary deficits. Second finding: Our economy, while 2014 closed at a positive growth rate of 0.8%, after six years of continuous recession, again in 2015 in the recession and in 2016 the budget is optimistic that we will have a recession of 1.2% again. Third finding: In the budget revenue area for 2016 there are no forecasts and references for revenues from the fight against tax evasion, for revenues from smuggling, for the purpose of adjusting the objective values of property and for the application of the use of plastic money. Fourthly, you are dismantling the tax control mechanisms with the actual dissolution of the Economic Crime Corps, which is also a head of administration after the head has resigned from the beginning of the week. However, this was a resignation expected, given that the transfer of responsibilities, the movement of officials and the planning of action by the audit authorities are made rough, hasty and fragmentary. In addition, the Transport Association, which is controlled by the SYRIZA trade union party, the ASKI, in a relevant press release issued by which the SYRIZA trade union party, ASKI, condemns the Government for its choices. Fifth finding: In the 2016 budget, direct taxes are reduced to 44.7% of GDP, corresponding to an increase in indirect taxes. In all the advanced countries, however, we know that direct taxes are clearly greater than indirect taxes. That's how we went. In 2012 we received direct taxes of 41.5% of GDP and reached them in 2014 by 46.5% of GDP, with a corresponding reduction in indirect taxes. We are returning, in other words, to the earlier unjust situation, by increasing indirect taxes, by which, in fact, poor strata pay higher taxes. In addition to the general remarks and any points, however, let us now see the figures, which do prove the distorting perception of how taxes should be structured in the Greek economy. In the preliminary draft budget for 2016, direct taxes are projected to increase by EUR 863 million and the indirect ones by EUR 1 billion 141 million. In other words, it is planned that more than EUR 2 billion will be collected wholesalely. Now let's go to your optimistic scenarios to increase revenues. You consider that you will achieve your objective through the reform of VAT rates, from which there is provision for revenues of EUR 1.3 billion, through the increase in the tax rates of legal persons, from which there are revenues of EUR 150 million, and by an increase in the advance tax on freelance professionals, from which there are revenues of EUR 114 million. Take note, however, that the reduction in turnover also results in a reduction in the VAT collected. In practice, this means that zero consumption, at any rate of VAT, even if it is calculated, will yield zero revenue to the State. Furthermore, in the privatizations, from EUR 268 million, which you think we will finally achieve revenue in 2015, revenues of EUR 1.8 billion, an increase of 570%, are forecast for 2016. It is an extremely ambitious objective, since there is no reference to revenue from the privatisation of the Port Authority of Thessaloniki or the Piraeus Port Agency or the "TRAINOSE". Another point relates to traffic charges. An increase in the traffic charges for 2016 has already been announced. However, the budget provides for a marginal reduction in revenue from them, as massive signs are obviously expected, due to the immobilisation of tens of thousands of cars. But if you were to leave traffic charges unchanged or even marginally reduce them, would we then have a real increase in revenue? Not to mention the imposition of new left-wing measures, such as an increase in the rates of income tax on farmers, the gradual abolition of the refund of excise duty on oil, the abolition of exemptions to the obligation to pay HPAI, as well as the increase in the rates of special solidarity levy. Keep one more element: The budget is forecast that 190 million euros will be collected from the increase in the fee yield in the Olympic Games. I fear, however, that with this choice you will lead people to illegal online betting and not even half of the anticipated ones will be collected, so you will have to look for new equivalents and go by saying. I close with the general government's due obligations towards third parties. Here, this is a paradox: While the state asks citizens to be consistent in their own obligations, the state itself is the worst malicious payer. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2012, the general government's outstanding liabilities were EUR 9.6 billion and in December 2014 we had reduced it by approximately EUR 6 billion to EUR 3.8 billion. In other words, commitments of about 6 billion have been settled and you have been handed over by a housed fund. Ten months later, state debts already exceed EUR 6 billion. The Battery State has also become a feature of the specific left-wing policy. I do not want anyone to say that I am energizing the political climate, now that the government is evangelizing the consensus. Unfortunately, the truth is that you remember consensus only when your government chair rolls around. The masters of polarization, the orators of the divisive speech, the theorists of social aggression suddenly wore the personality of the consensual nation ruler. It goes without saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy cannot vote for the 2016 budget, because it is quite simply a budget from an irreversible government, a government with a low majority, a government with a deadline. But you promised the Greek people, but you bring to Parliament. I agree, of course, that there are no permanent friends and permanent opponents in politics. If, then, you want a consensus with the Civic Opposition, you only have to admit that you have failed, you apologise to the Greek people for your lies and then come and discuss how we can achieve the real consensus. I firmly believe that, as democracies are not built with fear, consensus is not built with intimidation and ultimatum, but with courageous political actions. And one last thing: The responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, are not only to blame on others, but also to take them, when you have to, especially when you have the country's heavy responsibility for governance. So it is time for you to assume your responsibilities. Don't look for accomplices, because we're not going to become accomplices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Karaoglu. The special rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Evangelos Karakostas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Before the 2012 elections, the New Democracy and its President at the time supported the Memorandum of Understanding of the PASOK, saying that, when they come to the end, the memorandum will be renegotiated. But instead of renegotiation, they brought in a new memorandum. Before the 2015 elections, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks won the New Democracy and the PASOK, arguing that the Memorandum policies are deadlocked and that is why the Memorandum will be torn apart. Instead of skiing, they brought a new Memorandum, which is worthy of the title of the "Left Memorial". Five years of memorandum offered no solution, but on the contrary they brought the following: one and a half million unemployed, thousands of businesses, pooring a large part of the Greek people, selling out public property, at least ten thousand suicides in the suffocating economic situation. More importantly: no eminent political or economic factor, involved in the major scandals that damaged the Greek public and hence the Greek people themselves, was not brought to prison. Nevertheless, the governments of the country, serving the interests of international loan sharks and not of the Greek people, insist that they apply strict and inhumane memorial measures, which are indeed necessary for our salvation. SYRIZA - ANEL Government is struggling exactly in the footsteps of the former government of New Democracy and PASOK, with a substantial difference: The political fraudulents of supposed social sensitivity had the courage to ask the Greek people if they wanted a new memorandum to be saved. This is the referendum of 5 July 2015, when despite strong political terrorism, despite the economic terrorism of the closure of banks and capital controls, the Greek people voted 'no' to 62%. And yet, those who today undoubtedly come to talk about class orientation in the 2016 budget, not only despised the bronze "no", but imposed the toughest Memorandum to date, whose consequences are described in the new year's Memorandum of Budget. However, the country's public finances have long escaped government control. Those who are impossible to escape governmental control, but also the suffocating leg of ever won banks, are the heavy taxpayers of Greeks and Greeks. Recipe of constant tax growth has failed miserably and has failed because of existing economic suffocation, recession conditions and widespread tax evasion, while also maintaining an anti-development climate, undermining the recovery prospects. Today's economic and social reality in Greece was well attributed by the Chief of Golden Dawn, who in his speech in this Chamber had made it clear: Uke if the slaves than the unfamiliar. So what the current government is actually doing is not redistributing wealth, as is self-sufficient, but redistributing poverty, below the limits of which two million Greeks live. We are, however, coming back to reality, which all the Memorandum parties are distorting. The Greek economy has stumbled into a vicious cycle of recession, not achieving the fiscal objectives, with a dominant position on the growing uncertainty. How is the recession being treated in practice? The recession is dealt with solely by large-scale investments and even by production investments, which ensure an increase in employment and incomes. Instead, the left-wing government constantly suffers from repeated mistakes and tragic choices, which the Greek people pay most for. We mentioned during the discussion in committee that typical examples of aristotle amateurism have been the paradigms with the introduction of VAT on education or the simulation of VAT on the remote islands of the Aegean Sea, which will undoubtedly affect Greek tourism. What, however, are the tragic consequences of SYRIZA - ANEL's memorial policies and recurring government? The bleeding of households and businesses with 5.7 billion euro saving measures provided for in the new budget. EUR 3.2 billion is new measures. So there goes a walk and the story about the application of the memorandum with a social sign, as the Left likes to say, after the naughty retreat and absolute submission to international lenders. Most of the financial adjustment comes from the overturns in income tax, VAT, the imposition of specific taxes and charges of 3.2 billion, while the total reductions in the expenditure side amount to EUR 2.5 billion, of which 1.8 will come from insurance interventions. The new budget reflects the tax raid, which provides for an increase in taxation for farmers and taxpayers who receive rent income, as well as changes in tax scales and rates of natural persons. At the same time, there are seven hundred sixteen tax exemptions, which cost more than EUR 2.5 billion a year. Among those revenues that the government expects to receive is EUR 32 million from farmers' taxation - according to the new memorandum, the tax rate should be increased to 20% for incomes of 2016 and EUR 26% for revenues of 2017-1,31 billion from changes in VAT rates and the gradual abolition of a 30% discount on islands, EUR 20 million from the abolition of certain exemptions from HNPH, EUR 114 million from an increase in income tax on free professionals, EUR 79 million from an increase in income tax on farmers, EUR 13 million from the abolition of the reimbursement of excise duty on oil for rural use. So the government of class targets free professionals and farmers, that is, those who keep productive activity in the country, employees and retired people. Who, though, are those who are left unavoidable? They are the banks that the left government saved, as did previous PASOK and New Democracy governments, fessing the Greek people. The banks received EUR 8.1 billion from the markets and EUR 6 billion from the CFSF, which is the victim called the "Greek people", in a sale that has no precedent. And while the HFSF has provided a total of 44.5 billion euros and our so-called purchasers have given less than half of the money, about 20 billion, foreigners have held, after the last recapitalisation, the following: 70% of the shares of the National Bank, 80% of Piraeus, 90% of Alpha Bank, 98% of Eurobank. We therefore advocate, in the position of the government, that it has a class target. Indeed, it breaks down the low and medium-sized economic strata of the population and acts without doubt in order to serve the interests of international tugs and domestic pluralism. The Memorandum of Understanding estimates that at budgetary level next year the Greek economy will return to primary surplus conditions in the state budget. Does something remind you of the expectation of achieving the primary surplus? I'll remind you. It is the convergence of the Memorandum of Tsipras and Kammenos's companion with the monumental liberalism of the deadly New Republic of Samaras, is the sucess story of the Samaras - Venizelos that Tsipras and Kammenos, or, in simple words, is the fine beauty of the coming disaster. The true story of their monuments, servants and apologies, whether they are on the right or on the left is this: the general government debt is expected to increase to EUR 327,6 billion in 2016 from 316,5 billion this year. Or at rates: 187,8% of GDP from 180,2% in 2015. What, then, speaks of the Memorandum Arc, about what development prospects, about what social mark in material measures? The Left Memorandum serves not the development of our country and the well-being of our people, but the unthinkable, illegal and clearly unable to serve a debt which is increasing in the biennial period. Estimated, according to the 2016 budget, a recession of -2.3% of GDP for this year and -1.3% in 2016. This translates into a decline in domestic income of 173 billion euros in 2016 from 179 billion euros in 2014 and a divergence of 18 billion euros against the initial target of 191 billion. Therefore - and here it is essential - the preliminary draft considers the need to reintroduce and reintroduce additional measures of EUR 6.4 billion, in the next 15 months, to achieve the agreed targets, EUR 6.4 billion that the government will look for through new taxes. Therefore, you claim that we will be saved by the lenders and the loan sharks. We nationalists insist that only the Greeks will save Greece. You claim that the banks will revive the Greek economy. We nationalists insist on the necessity of turning into our primary production and exploitation of the country's mineral wealth, which the Memorandum parties sell to international loan sharks. The 2016 budget is a follow-up to Greece's death prerogative, following on from the ethnic-occupied Memorial Policies that keep our people captive of interest slavery. The only difference from the old budgets is that there are now SYRIZA - ANEL signatures to him, instead of those of the New Democracy and PASOK. The description of those that you, of the anti-constitutional arch, consider yourself partners of the international topics, that is, the saint of the Greek letters, Alexander Papadiamantis, in his work: "The merchants of the nations", from the distant 1883: "Always the ropes of these Atheganes, these ridiculous monkeys (so called the politicians). Black brass building buckles for the people in the deep darkness of their eternal laboratory." Against the eternal merchants of the nations, their gracious and dark workshops, the Golden Dawn raises the banners of the national faith by calling on the Greek people to constrain the ranks of national resistance to claim freedom and national dignity through the political struggle of the popular nationalist movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u81	We close this evening's meeting with our colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasio Bardalis. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. What is actually clearly reflected in the budget is the determination of co-government to speed up anti-grass policy, to load new suffering to the people's family. Your aim is, in fact, clear - and you do not hide it yourself, as was the aim of the previous governments - to help relaunch the economy, to shield the profits of business groups and, of course, to manage extreme poverty. As you approach your goal, the more the people bleed. The budget best illustrates the effort to reduce both the direct and indirect costs of monopolies and their state to increase their competitiveness. In fact, without saying that there are no new sides, you're moving on to the mistress. The festivals, recently, for the recapitalisation of banks and the improved indicators of the Greek economy, have no value whatsoever for the working people, which will continue to bleed with new tax raids, wage and pension cuts, as is provided for in the prerequisites and in the 2016 budget. The measures already adopted will be implemented throughout the next year, with a corresponding increase in the yield for the state fund, while anti-population policy will be supplemented by new measures. Because bazaars with the imperialist organisations are becoming more escalating the anti-grassroots measures, while, of course, in the event of a divergence from the objectives, the Financial Council will come and the funds will automatically be cut. As Minister Juliarakis claimed during the committee debate, this is a budget which marks the government's budgetary strategy in the medium term. He even laid down the roadmap for the implementation of this strategy. The first objective is to maintain budgetary equilibrium. In other words, the budget will put an end to the production of deficits'rain, snow' and ensure the production of primary surpluses. The second objective is to put an end to the reproduction of the actual momentum of the Greek economy. Both objectives have been the same as those of all governments since 2009, which implemented the two previous Memorandums. The coup d'état claims that its budget differs from previous budgets, because it emphasises the element of social justice in the social budget. It even claims that it provides for 300 million - that is its social sensitivity! - more for health, forgetting to say that from the pensioners' pockets they removed 700.5m euros for the same purpose, by increasing bookings of 6% in subsidiary and 2% in main pensions. After abolishing the pension to the elderly uninsured and to the retired, you now unleash your social "sensitivity" by providing for a EUR 62 million'support' in its place. Put the knife deep into social benefits, as savings of 0.5% must be made on a yearly basis. Since 2016, the drastic restriction of the CSCE will begin, since the draft budget provides for a saving of EUR 223 million. The benefit for the heating oil of the people's family is reduced by 50%, with savings being made here to 105 million euros. The new measures you take will yield about EUR 5.7 billion. Self-employed professionals, professionals and merchants will also be charged with EUR 114 million by increasing the advance payment of income tax. To poor farmers, tax fraud will exceed EUR 270 million. What we have, therefore, are new, greater tax bleeding of the people and, at the same time, drastic cuts in funds needed to meet people's needs. These are amounts that come to stack on the anti-grass measures of your predecessors at the wheel of urban management. Not all of this is said to be social justice or a social policy. Ladies and gentlemen, with the budget tabled by the cohabitation shows the way for the new attack on insurance by charging another EUR 1.8 billion to retired and insured people. It seems that governments are changing, but the underfunding of the funds remains a timeline! In education, although arithmetically the same amount appears to be given, it is essentially about stabilising the funding, which is found in schools, universities, HEIs and TEIs, in a situation of controlled bankruptcy and therefore worsening the current misdemeanour. The reductions in funding for Greek abroad, the reductions in expenditure on higher education, which amount to EUR 70 million, for the inclusion departments, the special schools, the full day. Today that we are talking about thousands of vacancies in education create an image of abandonment in public education. Worst is the situation in preschool education. There is also a serious operational problem at the TEIs and at the TEIs, and you know it. It is characteristic that institutions are operating today with only 20% of the 2011 budget. In the case of research, the funds provided are hardly available to cover the payroll of regular staff, while for everyone else there is no commitment. The big words about the continuing leakage of new highly qualified scientists, labour in general, abroad, prove to be hollow words, since nothing is done to reverse this situation. The same situation, up and down, is in local administration. The state budget is one of the main mechanisms for redistributing the wealth produced to the benefit of capital. Here too, a key axis is the escalating reduction in the funding of the municipalities and regions from the state budget. The financial framework for discipline and the budget are the main tools for continuing restructuring and local administration. But what are these notorious restructurings? Restructuring means drastic cuts in resources, declining social infrastructure, privatization of services and projects, stimulus of the municipalities to bank lending, along with further intensification of citizens' overtaxation, replacement of staff with stable insurance and labour rights with staff of a variety of flexible labour relations. As a result, nothing positive for workers will arise from these restructurings. Once again, around EUR 1.4 billion is arbitrarily retained by municipalities and regions. The same thing that previous governments have done is you. The EBRD funds have been minimised. They're down by about 84% compared to 2009. Today it seems we're going for zero. The infrastructure which has been created for decades in sport and culture, from the lack of maintenance and, of course, from the lack of means and personnel for maintenance, collapses. Rarely, spaces are being expropriated today to be attributed to the people, again because of a lack of resources. The maintenance of school buildings is either incomplete or unexistent. The road network of the municipalities remains without maintenance and is dangerous. The Public Investment Programme provides for projects in three hundred and twenty-five municipalities and thirteen regions for the state to give up - if it also gives them - a maximum amount of EUR 212 million. The new ESDP is already being projected by the government and also by the leadership of the JRC as the only financial source for investment in local administration. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government, as well as the mayors and the districtlors, are stepping up disorientation of its character, that is to say who it operates and who it serves. It is already in the air as regards their conclusion of projects of the municipalities that were part of the NSRP for the period 2007-2014 and, in any case, there are no plans and extensive interventions on issues such as earthquake shielding, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection, social health and welfare infrastructures, problems that come tragically to the news, such as earthquakes and repeated flooding phenomena. The regions are financed with EUR 652 million from the CAP. In view of the fact that payroll in the regions is EUR 300 million, the remaining amount is EUR 332 million for thirteen regions of the country. In view of the above, it is clear that the economic suffocation for local authorities will continue and will be intensified in 2016. Health funds - welfare - are indirect costs and need to be reduced. Based on government budget figures, total health expenditure for the Ministry of Health is reduced by EUR 19 million. For hospitals, funding is reduced by 10 million euros. These are found in Table 3.11 p. 112. And I say that because you say things about health. It is a continuation of the cuts in previous years, especially last year, which had been cut by 22.8%. The staff costs of state hospitals - and this is important - are projected to decrease by EUR 1 million. You'll tell me it's not much. Reduced funds for the operation of public hospitals and for the costs, however, of staff signal the establishment of the present unacceptable and dangerous regime of enormous shortages in personnel, equipment, medicines and consumables, already exacerbating the explosive problems in hospitals. As far as primary health care is concerned, there you repeat the government's announcements of restructuring the core health care, as you say, the family doctor and neighborhood health units. By means of this reform you want to promote the objective of further reducing public health spending, of course, on the basis of cost-benefit ratios. The economic problem of local government, the health, welfare and education cuts resulting from the state budget data are, in our view, a political problem. It's a matter of strategic choice. It is a question of choosing a development path and of the interests that this development path serves. This is how additional state expenditure is saved. The so-called 'non-wage cost' is even more compressed at such levels as to ensure greater competitiveness and increase the profitability of business groups. Ladies and gentlemen, the privatisations in 2016 provide revenues of about 2 billion. They go out to the hammer, you go out to the hammer, a number of businesses like DESFA, PLAT, and there's no end to the list. You can see the left-wing government - in introductory words - doing all it can to find new areas of profitable action for big capital, local and foreign. You have made a flag of the need for reform, especially in the public. The changes that you want to promote to the public are the directions of the European Union, and these interventions also require the Greek Industrial Association. These are changes that adapt and modernise the urban state and enable it to serve the needs of capital and its profitability in the current circumstances, in order to make it more effective in serving competitiveness and, at the same time, achieve the necessary financial benefit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude. The nerve of coexistence seems to have no limits. It makes sense for a government that has chosen precisely to do the dirty work of capital, while integrating the reactions of the people and youth. The JRC will do all it can to organize the popular counterattack until developments are launched to overthrow this capitalist barbarism. We will give all our forces to organise the struggle of the people and to demand immediate measures of an urgent nature for the workers. The people have nothing to expect from the climate of false consent being cultivated by the government and other urban parties in their attitude. The only good for the people is in the organization of their struggle, in the people's alliance, in the collapsation with the Communist Party of Greece, to overthrow anti-popular politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, before we close the meeting, I would like to ask you, Mr Manda, to make a debate tonight or tomorrow morning with the Government Secretary on the list of Ministers to speak tomorrow, so that we can make a proper planning so that everyone does not come in bloc at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S2-commons.u84	With the consent of the House at 23.10 p.m. the meeting is closed tomorrow, Wednesday, December 2, 2015 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work: Continuing the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2016".
