ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyo. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. I have the honour to inform the House of the updates of Friday 6 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 72/3-11-2015 of the Greek delegation to the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgiou Diaras, Minister for Environment and Energy, on the Greek representation at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by the Deputy of State of New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the management of the case of the ‘Lista Lagard’. 3. The question asked by MP Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the management of mixed migratory flows. 4. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the transfer of competence of the privileges and aids to the municipalities. 5. The question raised by Mr George Mavrotas at the Minister of Culture and Sport with regard to sport discrimination in the European Games in Baku, Azerbaijan and the subsequent benefits for athletes who participated. 6. Under number 682-11-2015, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the reintegration of two hundred and eighty people into the fixed transport services of "(STHS S.A.) S.A.(')'. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis with regard to national foreign policy and journalistic mediation by MP I, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Mr Ioannis Saridis. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the need for the immediate removal of the “Mytilini” vessel from the port of Charlotte Samos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 79/311-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the problems of the Greek Open University. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the problems of student care at the University of Rethymno. 4. The question asked by MP Laris of the Communist Party of Greece, Georgios Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, about the reduction in cotton production due to heavy rain in all the prefectures of Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on the first question, let me say that the second question under number 66/2-11-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the pensions of the OGA, will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment and deleted. Also, the third, with number 57/30-10-2015, is the timely question by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the country's development prospects, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u6	I have asked for the floor, Mr President, because this is the third time that the question is not being discussed. And since it is presented by a party that insists on having an answer to how things are evolving in the field of development, I think it is no longer the Minister's prerogative not to answer, it is his obligation. Because in the House the ministers must respond because they do not answer the honourable Member but the Greek people. So when the Greek people are currently facing this huge economic problem and the major issue is growth and a party asks three questions, then the Minister is obliged to come here. It must also inform the President and the Bureau of Parliament of the reasons for not coming. Because if it was the first time I could understand it. If it was the second one, I understand. The three, however, do not fall within the ‘woman’s ounce of wisdom’. The two sins fall within the “would man of wisdom.” Three has sinned, I don't know what it is. So, Mr President, I would like to ask that we have the Minister's answer as to what his point is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u7	As far as your question is concerned clearly to the Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism, which is not being discussed today, it is the second time and not the third time. But, regardless of that, Mr Kremastine, you are absolutely intimate. And it's not the first thing that's heard of Members' protests...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u8	It's the second time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u9	Let me tell you a minute, and I'll listen carefully. This is not the first time that Members have intervened, calling for the presence of the ministers of the Government, the State Secretarys to be present in the questions they have put and once and twice. Today, of the eleven which were to be discussed, the six will be discussed. We're just over 50%. A few days ago - last week - you remember that from eleven, one was debated. There's a question. We've said it. And today that we have a Conference of Presidents, we shall put it in place. The Bureau will do everything in its power to 'negative' - let me say - the ministers come to answer. From that point on, I believe that each party can contribute in that direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, the two times you have said are indeed in this House. The third was in the middle, when we had the election stories and all that, so it wasn't the meeting. So it's the third time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u11	All right, Mr. Cream.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u12	I agree with you on this, because it is a major issue and it must be discussed at the Conference of Presidents that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u13	We enter the debate of the first under number 60/2-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights regarding the repayment of loans from ATE via "balloon payment". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos. Mr Karayannides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ATE is a hard part of the banking system. I will not go into the gift to Piraeus Bank of the good ATE at all. We'll talk a little bit about the bad LAPD. From 2000, around, until 2012, there have been thousands of three hundred cases, as the former Minister of State announced, in charge of combating corruption, Mr. Nicoludis, involving a portion of the money that touches 5 billion. And that's the net money that ATE gave as loans. This does not even include interest. That's not just a scandal. It is a smuggling of public money by a bank which could be said to have been a special purpose. It was, in other words, for farmers, farmers, farmers, rural development and livestock development in the country. It has, however, changed over the past 20 years to a bank which has actually donated money to failed entrepreneurs, SMEs and parties. After this revelation last August, we expect to see what the intentions of your authority are, in what way you will be directed, so that first of all the money can be repaid. It is not only the people who gave this money to be put before justice, but we should be aware, with a timetable that is very specific, how the money as a whole will be repaid or a piece of that money, for one single reason: according to the earlier government and the bill that was passed at the time for the sale of the Agricultural Bank, since 2017, the part called 'bad agricultural bank' will go through the repayment from the Greek taxpayers' money. This means that Greek taxpayers since 2017 will pay this supposedly bad piece, which is a very heavy burden on Greek taxpayers to understand all these five years what has happened. What are your intentions to obtain as much money as possible from this case and what are your intentions as regards the part of the responsibility that the administrations of the Agricultural Bank have?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos has the floor for the Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u16	You are absolutely right about what you said about the scandal of the Agricultural Bank. Regarding your question, I would like to inform you that the report by the President of the Taxation Union, Mr Giannis Siatras, has been filed in accordance with Rule 43. The archiving of the case is due to the provision of Article 78 of Law 44146/2013, which in fact provides immunity to the presidents, to the members of the board of directors and to the bank managers for a category of loans, such as that of Mr Sitras. However, in addition to this report - which, as I have said, for practical reasons of immunity provided by the above provision - Greek justice is investigating other loans from the Agricultural Bank. There is a file in the Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes that investigates the loans of the Agricultural Bank, which are included in the finding of a loan control of the former Agricultural Bank of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority. Also, the Prosecutor of Economic Crime is investigating the media loan to ATE. In this respect, it should be noted that there was another case-file, which concerned the loans of ATE to the political parties, but which was also filed in accordance with the above provision. In my view, the above-mentioned provision for this was voted on. I must assure you that the Greek justice in the cases it is investigating will give a lot of light on the conditions for lending the loans it is investigating. There will be no obstacle to its work and its independence, which the Prime Minister himself has guaranteed many times. After all, recently, the actions of prosecutors and judges confirm that something is changing in our area about the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u18	I think that in a piece the issue is judicial and legal and in a piece it is political. I will tell you three examples to hear, because I know you know them. There was in the past a rural cooperative that received 105 million of the loan from the Agricultural Bank. With what guarantees? Who signed this loan? Who is this rural cooperative who took this money and what did he do with it? He was an entrepreneur who went one day to a central store of the Agricultural Bank in Athens and asked for 35 million. Officials obviously told him that this was not the case. At noon he was invited to take 35 million. This information I mentioned to you is from a report made by a very good journalist, Mr Triantis, at the HUFFINGTON POST, to which answers must be given. There's the party scandal. PASOK and the New Democracy have taken 220 million. Will this money ever be paid back? That is why the whole political system is being discredited and it is not possible for all parties or all political organisations to enter the same bag. If by one setup this also enters the file, come another device that takes it out of the file. Because people have been waiting to a certain extent for disasters that have been endured over the past five years, for those who have not only paid, but also profited from these things. In other words, justice must be given so that the ordinary citizen can feel that to some extent everyone divides this burden. Again, it's a political matter. Will the presidents of ATE, who were until 2012, be put before justice under another provision? Are we going to take back money, which was given in this way, lightly, by these administrations? And will the ATE scandal be clarified, as regards what was good and what was bad, and what is the price sold to the former government? And let me tell you one more thing. It is not only the Agricultural Bank, it is the Commercial, part of which has been divested for five-tenths and the divester of this bank is now the Governor of the Bank of Greece. There's also the postal savings scandal. I would like to say that the banking system for many years has been a shop in which the "loaners" were lending the "loan", through which the PASOK and the New Democracy governments were lending to very specific entrepreneurs. And one of them - so that we do not forget these things - we awarded him as a state, I mean by 2011, 2012, as the best and most successful businessman. He was in the Corridal Prison, and he went out with a health problem, and he was right out. I'm talking about Proton Bank and the loan that this businessman got. So there was no growth. And not only was there no growth, but there was also money that the world had with the difficulties it had put up with the bank, and at the moment it has become air that has become unfavourable. So what we are asking for - I say again and you said it before - is a political decision. The provision that has been put to immunity and the governors and the borrowed parties must be changed by another provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u20	Once again, most of what you said, you're right. However, a provision which reintroduces criminal provisions already in the file cannot exist. What I can assure you is that the current government will not legislate on measures providing immunity to anyone like the provision of Article 78 of Law 4146/2013. It should be noted, however, that the Ministry of Justice, in the specific case of media lending by the Rural Bank, has just found a delay of eight years - I repeat that eight years have elapsed in this case in interrogation - has ordered disciplinary investigation into the disciplinary responsibilities of the relevant judges. It proved once again that today's SYRIZA - Independent Greeks' conflict is doing everything it takes to combat corruption in our country. And this disciplinary order against judges has its meaning. Also, for the other cases you have said, there are records of all of them and they are investigated by the competent judicial authorities. As we all know, the judicial authorities act independently. The Ministry cannot intervene. All it can do is facilitate their work - it has already begun and facilitated it, and I think the results, as I have said before, are tangible - and, of course, take all the necessary initiatives to strengthen them in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the first under number 59/2-11-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Akaterini Iglezi to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the coverage of the vacancies of teaching staff in primary schools of Halkidiki. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Friends. Here, Mrs. Iglezi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when this question was tabled, significant shortages of teachers were observed in the primary schools of Halkidiki Prefecture, with the result that valuable teaching hours were lost, which created obstacles to the teaching work and the education of students. Specifically, the following shortcomings were observed: Forty - two vacancies of teachers and two vacancies of kindergarten. Moreover, the fact that the possibility of recruiting teaching staff, financed through the NSRF programmes, is limited to the full-day school, creates a huge problem in the operation of schools with a contractual programme, since there is a great difficulty. The result is the creation of huge classes with a great number of students, which makes it even more difficult for teachers and learning processes in general. However, with the amendment tabled by the Minister for Education, which was voted in favour of by the House, the recruitment of two thousand other assistant teachers was approved. This resulted in total organic positions being covered at the beginning of the week in Halkidiki. I would therefore like, by representing the people of Halkidiki and especially the parents of the students, since I am one of them, to thank both the Minister personally but much more the services of the Ministry of Education, who have moved very quickly so that new recruits can take up their duties immediately and that other valuable teaching hours are not lost. Today, however, another problem has arisen: five schools in Halkidiki, while organically five schools, operate until now as a signatory, which means that there was no organic gap that had to be covered in these cases. Surely the operation of these schools with a more position than their organicity was irregular, but this year's school year began so, with every class having its teacher. It is unjust and pedagogically wrong November month, after the educational process has moved forward, to find, for example, the Third Class to co-educate with the Fourth Class. This is a problem that has caused upsetting parents and children of these schools, who have since begun mobilisations. But it is also a problem that I believe is easy to solve by placing five teachers together in these schools. Is the Minister therefore asking whether he intends to ensure that this injustice and school units are properly and smoothly operated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Iglezi. The Minister for Education, Mr. Friends, has the floor. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. I would like to start by introductory answering to the honourable Member that it will be a permanent choice for the Ministry of Education to answer the questions which Members will be asked, and we will be provoking planned debate here and here in the Committee on Forum on Education, so that the question of education is not discussed opportunely and sometimes in an impressive way in the House, but always studied and always seen to resolve problems, which are constantly presented. Because education is a living organization and at the best of times new problems have been encountered, how much more in today's era, where education is going through a difficult time, because our country is having a hard time too. It is obvious that the issue of audacity is bored on education and we will try next year to break the vicious circle of audacity and gaps. With regard to what you have said, we too are satisfied with the actions of the services, as well as with the direct response of the House to the request for additional appropriations for teachers. I would also like to assure you that the previous ones which have been presented and which you mentioned just now will ensure that they are dealt with as quickly as possible. The picture of the smoothness of the large majority of schools, despite the limited appropriations available to us, is now recognised by society. I would like to say to you that it is the result of certain options that we have had to make within the unfavourable financial framework. From the beginning of the school year up to now, some sixteen thousand substitutes have been presented in school halls. This is the next period, satisfying the needs of schools, to recruit five thousand two hundred and ninety-four alternates, a total of twenty-two thousand seventy-four alternates. If we also sum up the aided teaching, which we will bring back by law sooner than this year in schools, we will have another thousand twenty - three substitutes for aiding teaching. I would remind you that last year we had eighteen thousand four hundred sixty-nine substitutes, and this year we have more than twenty-three thousand, if we sum up the reinforcement of teaching, namely, we have three thousand nine hundred five alternates in schools, an increase of 21.4%. This is a practical example of the government's interest that education, health and public administration are priorities for our country, for a country that - as you know today - is in an economic crisis, where school must be one of the top points to break this vicious circle of the economic crisis. We have to fight together, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, all in this House, so that the public school can be given even greater credibility. That is the position, that is the obligation we have. It is a difficult battle, because we must respond to the problems of the economic impoverishment of families, of social inequality, which we have not created and which we have to overthrow. It is obvious that the problems the government has faced today have inherited them. Completely, he has inherited them. And we are slowly fighting with the problems that have to do with 15 years and 20 years behind them, problems which have to do with the fragmentation or, at least, the inadequate and successful exploitation of six Community funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u25	Minister, I'm sorry, you have a secondary right. We're approaching the five minutes of your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is what we are facing today in unfavourable budgetary conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. Mrs Iglezis has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u28	I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment and I am sure that he will look very sensitively and solve the simple but important problem. It is true that the education sector in Greece has been and continues to face major problems which can be characterised for years. These problems emerged, of course, long before the start of the economic crisis. Today, however, given the difficult circumstances we face, they have made the situation in our schools even more difficult. The shortcomings are important, particularly, as I said before, that of the lack of teaching staff. It is understandable that many of the issues in the field of education cannot be solved from one day to the next and without consultation with society. However, the question of the proper functioning of our schools cannot be postponed for the future. So, despite the difficulties, superhuman efforts should be made to improve the situation in education. It is not possible in Greece of the 21st century to lose valuable teaching hours, but also to have 30 and more pupils, due to the lack of teachers. This inevitably leads to the disillusionment of the educational system, the physical and psychological fatigue of the already existing teaching staff, but above all, to the frustration of the students, who in this sensitive age should not only acquire the knowledge bases and many of the skills they will need for the rest of their lives, but must love the school and, more generally, the entire learning process. It is, of course, well-known that the Minister's intentions and efforts are directed towards solving many issues that arise at the beginning of each school year. However, it must be stressed that the procedures must be even more rapid and particularly in areas considered remote and not the first choice of teachers. One of these areas is, of course, Halkidiki and, in particular, north-east Halkidiki and Sithonia, where the problems in education have always been very strong. The particular circumstances of our region and the fact that many of our villages are difficult to access, especially in winter, require the special attention of the Ministry, because the Left Government must be the first to give equal opportunities to everyone, particularly to the new generation, which is the future of this country. Finally, investing in education is what creates a worthwhile human capital capable of facing all sorts of crisis and building a new society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Iglezi. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. It is obvious that the self-evident, that is, the well-functioning of schools and the students to start the school period from the first day with teachers, teachers, books, is the Ministry’s first goal. Unfortunately, over the past twenty years, which I can remember what has happened, this goal has not been achieved and it has been the time of the fat cows, of the so-called strong Greece. We now commit before the National Representation that we shall proceed to measures, in dialogue with the federations of teachers and primary and secondary education, in cooperation with the administrative authorities, with measures concerning the appointment of permanent staff from the new year. We will proceed to streamline the distribution of teaching staff so that the first day of school year is a real day of start. We are now setting up a Commission of Staff Changes, where we will try to see in particular the problems that are presented, beyond the general problem of the autism to which I have referred. You have also raised another issue, the issue of inappropriate areas. More than you are the islands and other mountainous areas. It is clear that when we talk about a proportion of teachers - teachers, some say he is a luxury in our country compared to other countries, we must take these peculiarities into account. The Greek state has an obligation, even if there is a student in an isolated area that cannot be transferred to learn letters, to send him a teacher. And we've got a lot of cases right now that we have two students, two primary school kids, one teacher. We'll keep going. In conclusion, I would like to say that despite the problems, we have managed not to go beyond the twenty-five pupils' limit on a broad scale by section. Only 5% of the sections at the moment have exceeded the limit of twenty-five students per section. This is a feat that we will try to improve with the measures I mentioned earlier. It is obvious that we are all sharing, regardless of ideological differences, the same vision for the school, a school collaborative and not very competitive, a school based on the student, the student's self-action and acknowledging the teacher's role and will not devaluate the teacher, as is unfortunately the case in many respects in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 26th Municipal School of Kallitheas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We enter the fourth with number 65/2-11-2015 top-level question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on dealing with the problems arising in all structures of special education and education. The Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Friends. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. The issue we are addressing today, Minister, in our question, concerns the most sensitive part of education, the situation of which each time it captures, if you wish, and characterises the quality of the education system as a whole, of society and ultimately of the socio-economic system in which it operates. We have entered November, Minister, and the situation in special education remains tragic and outrageous at the same time. Parents of disabilities go up their own bellow and see in this effort the state be indifferent and often hostile. It's not a verbal exaggeration, but, unfortunately, it's a reality. There is no public education structure, special school at all levels of education, which currently operates normally, and until now enough, too much of these schools had not even been opened. And all of this when with the mediumest scientific calculations, children in need of special education and training are approaching about two thousand, and only eighteen or twenty thousand of them are in a public education structure and much less in private. You see, we are in the 21st century and still the Greek state has not arranged for an elementary, subtle record of children with disabilities. The heroic and often touching effort of all workers in special education cannot in any case hide their enormous shortcomings, nor can it become the alibi of your most severe government responsibilities. Really, Minister, how does a special school work when it is lacking in teachers, when it is lacking in special educational staff, the psychologists, social workers, the therapists, the physiotherapists, the therapists, when it is lacking the assistant staff, without even a school nurse? And can we call them school buildings for special treatment, or those operating in inappropriate rooms, in dangerous areas, housed in former warehouses, in corners of events halls, in corridors, in bad time buildings, even in loose houses? Can we say, Minister, that we have public centres for diagnosis, evaluation and support - CEDEFOPs - when I speak - when, due to their enormous shortages in scientific staff, an evaluation of a disabled child can wait up to three years? It is not by chance that these phenomena are the consequences of a whole policy that is still under way by your own government and which, of course, are slowly getting worse. Years, decades...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Delia, you've been over three minutes. You're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u34	Only 30% of the workers in these structures have permanent and stable work, while 70% works with flexible work relationships, is fired and reworked next year at another school, when the stable teaching relationship between teachers and disabled children especially in this category is the cornerstone for any special treatment. In this area, therefore, the most sensitive and demanding area of education, Minister, has not been a permanent appointment in the last 15 years. I stop here and ask you: What are you going to do to cover all these gaps and now, immediately, to cover all the structures of special education, by the CEDEFOP, the CEDEFOP, the school units, that is to say, and finally to fund with the necessary funds from the state budget, special education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u35	Mr Philis, the Minister for Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u36	Mr Colleague, it is true that the image of special education does not look to the European Greece of the 21st century, that children with disabilities feel twice and three times the weight of social inequalities, that their families pass a nut and that the educational staff, the chief or the assistant who has undertaken the operation of schools, in which a small part of the hundred and fifty thousand or even two thousand, as you said, children with disabilities, this staff with heroism, without stable working relations most of them, but with altruism, gives the battle. Everything, you'll tell me, they've got an end to it. But here, I would like to stress this ruthless offer of teachers and other workers in special education schools and agree with you that this problem must be tackled immediately. I do not agree and it is too much about the indifference and hostility you have made to the government. We received what we received this year, and we had a staff recruitment programme of twice the number that existed last year and in difficult circumstances, because, as you know, this year, the NRP did not allow us to hire staff for Attica, for the southern Aegean and for western Macedonia. Nevertheless, we have mobilised national resources from the public investment programme and have, I repeat, hired twice as many deputies since last year. This is already apparent in the operation of schools which have had problems, which have been very normalized, not to the extent that we would like. Finally, I would like to say that for us, permanent appointments to education are a priority. And priority within priority is permanent appointments to special education, special education. We will discuss this, given that, as we have said - and in fact we prove it - we will show the necessary interest, we will respond to the obligation of the state, we will also set up a special committee to discuss the whole legislative function of the special education schools. We will have many opportunities to discuss not in terms of opposition and co-population, but in terms of interest for a common good, for the good of these children the issue of special education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully, Minister. Once again, you have made the findings which are visible, of course, with the naked eye in the field of education and especially in the field of special education. You showed your consent to the problems and you said one more "will", one of them long before you and to other ministries said them, and as our people say you will sow them, but they never grow. Invoke the difficult economic situation. You are also saying that you have received - and in this you are not originalising - chaos, burnt earth,'so we can't do anything'. The same thing was said by the previous governments and by the previous ministers for those who succeeded, only we have to remind you here that you are continuing the same policy, Minister. You also implement the strategy of the European Union, which I shall refer to below. The money they need, Minister, and you find it difficult for your Ministry to find it, is very easy when it comes to meeting the needs of the bankers, when it is to cover the naval costs of planes - antiques that are not really necessary in the Hellenic Air Force, when it is to give privileges to the capital, to write off debts and fines, even for tax evasion and I am talking about the term of your previous government. You specifically apply to the field of special education - and with the opportunity to ask you whether you will implement what you have said about trying to operate a special school per address, because that is what you understand very simply means closing down the other special schools that exist - a strategy that actually leads to the name of diversity and the name of demilitarisation, to literally throw away these children who need special education and training from special schools in general education. There you will attempt the so-called parallel supports. And to say here that for parallel support now, at the moment we're talking about, while it should be a teacher for a student, we have parallel support for a teacher in two, three, even four students. It's disbursing the time. Each student is entitled to 1/4 or 1/3 of the school's hours. This is a parallel support which is changing every year, a parallel support based on an earlier law, which you are of course maintaining. Maybe parents in their pocket will pay. So here is how privatization comes, especially in children with autism. To conclude, Mr President, I do not want to list the most serious problems here. Let me just say that it has so far graduated two thousand more than two thousand teachers from the University Special Education Departments and not one of them has been appointed. Let me say that at the Special School of Deaf and Heavy in Thessaloniki they are studying what children can go on their own, what children can move them - today we are talking about, right now - and the rest are still waiting to solve the problem of moving. Finally, I should like to say something that is immediate and imperative. You know, Minister, there are disabled children who need reasoning and treatment and who have cut free ergonomic treatments and therapies. Too many parents from such folk families very simply don’t do these things necessary for their children because they don’t have the necessary money. We think you should say something about it, commit yourself. Because, of course, the situation cannot wait and neither can the world wait when you will start to implement a policy of appointments - policies announced, as I have said, many times before you - I think that the struggles that have already begun in special education are intensified and must be intensified. They should be culminating in the strike on November 12th next Thursday. We are now fighting for everything, and we are particularly fighting for this sensitive and special area of special treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u39	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u40	I understand that every opposition party must be opposed, but I appeal, not to deny what has been done in the sensitive area of education that is special education. We as a government recognise that the overall picture of the area of special education has only recently started to be systematically recorded, even though special treatment works in our country for over thirty years. But the moves that have been made over recent years - governments may be blamed for making desecrated and rough moves in their implementation - were in the right direction. The new school structures created, the HEI integration departments within general education schools, the special schools for various classes of schoolchildren with complex needs, the training programmes, the specific vocational education and training workshops, the special education TEIs, the centres for the diagnosis, evaluation and support of pupils with special needs, and many others laid the foundations for addressing the needs of the child in need of special education. So we will make use of these possibilities to improve them and gradually give them a step-by-step solution to the problems. We're not ruining. We note the problems and the problems that exist and what exist today. In my opinion, it would be unfair to accuse the government of a few months or a few weeks that it did not deal with the problem of the appointment of staff to special schools as far as possible. The tables are undeniable witnesses of what we have been able to do and, in any case, of the intensified interest we have shown. This year in all structures - personalized in special schools, specialist, assistant staff, CEDEFOP etc. - We hired substitutes and the number is two thousand four hundred ninety-four. Most of them have already gone to their places and are constantly improving, and this situation is, of going to the schools. Last year the equivalent was a thousand two hundred forty-four alternates. I repeat: last year two hundred forty-four were hired and this year two thousand four hundred ninety-four. Double. And this picture that already appears in special education schools will appear even more when the programme to which we referred earlier is completed in the next few days. It is therefore not 'will'. On the contrary, it is a commitment that is being implemented. And I would ask you to look at us in the strictest way if, in the next few months, we are not in the next few months, with a plan, with proposals, by means of dialogue decisions to deal with the problems of special education schools. And one last thing: we will not oppose the issues that you have mentioned. It's not that we have money and we don't use it. Don't go to the general debate on banks and armaments. It is a great debate that escapes today's process here. It is clear that the government takes schools, education, health and public administration as a priority. It'll look like this next time. We are government - I repeat - a few weeks or months and we will be a government for four years. We will be judged at the end of the four-year period, but gradually by the end of the four-year period you will see what measures we will take for the history of education. You referred to an announcement of mine. There's been a misunderstanding. I did not say 'one school in each region'. I said at least one special education school per district. I stress it so that there is no misunderstanding. At least one school per special education district. We could also refer to other issues. I repeat that the question of education is a matter of national social dialogue. Education is what we would call 'joint good' for our society. I am not eradicating the different ideological starting points or the social controversies which are being organized and the inequalities surrounding the subject of education. However, the task here is to strengthen the normalization of these social inequalities, which are a clear and dramatic one - in my view - the situation of the special schools is, in my view, the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Allow me, Minister, to present the information you have just read in the Minutes to be distributed to those of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u42	I'll give all the paintings. I do not want to confuse this House with figures. I mentioned the main ones. It's five paintings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u43	All right, Minister. Check them out and the Services will be seized.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u44	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. The sixth question under number 61/2-11-2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaea, of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the planning of the Government for the enforcement and other exceptional contribution, is not discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. We enter the fifth under the number 582-11-2015 top-level question of the First Cycle of the President of the Potamiou Flash Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on dealing with problems in the operation of the University General Hospital of Larissa (PGN). The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Colleague, can you move to a seat next to me, why is there a technical problem with your microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u48	Yes, Mr. President. It does not open any microphone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u49	Let us interrupt for a moment, ladies and gentlemen, until the problem has been restored by the Technical Service.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u50	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u51	The problem has been restored, Mr Colleague. Here, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, good morning. The question concerns the sum of the two hospitals in the city of Larissa, which, as you know, have merged at least administratively and constituted as the sum of one of the largest units in the country. I fear that this hospital has the well-known problems - we will then - which unfortunately little - have the hospitals in the country and is not an exception. As the Minister said these days on the channels and on the media, the blackout is imminent in the health system, which I will not comment on. The blackout was in the Hospital of Larissa and it was not only because of the memorial arrangements but also because of the insistence of the previous government of SYRIZA - and I am very afraid that today - with the removal of administrations. So the hospital stayed headless for months without command, i.e. without command and sub-command, today works after the transfer of the commander of Volos Hospital temporarily to Larissa and without any deputy. As a result, it does not have a legal board of directors and has accumulated more than a thousand two hundred issues on the pending agenda, to have everyone actually been unpaid since December, as far as suppliers and supplies are concerned, and to have a real race for the NRP, which is in danger of being lost. Also, the coroner, the MRI in the old hospital, the surgery equipment for the old hospital and the new CT for the new one, among others. Finally, last night an amendment was tabled, which solves the problem of the university hospital, with regard to the functioning of the Board of Directors, but opens up other things that we will have to comment on - you will allow me - then. I would like to point out that this amendment was made after a pandemic, I would say, pressure from Thessaly with characteristic slowness, such that it will certainly solve the problem of the administration of the hospital in the medium term, but will create great insecurity with regard to the subject of the ESRB. Part of the NRP therefore appears from the information that it is still in danger of losing, due to the fact that there was no management board at the hospital for a very long time. Probably, I'm gonna need a bridging and I'd like to see that. I shall also address the relevant Minister for Development and I would like your support for this. We will probably need to see the whole NSA and how we can save a lot of things from it, because as you know it is the only chance to install infrastructure in Greek hospitals for many years. The next ESDP has little or no money for machinery and technology. Thus, in the hospital, the hub created by the removal of commanders was created. The amendment is about to resolve the matter. However, there is an irrationality all these months about hospital administrations and the government has shown obsessed with the removal saves and well all the commanders of all hospitals and their unconditional replacement. I would remind you of the very bad amendment by Kurubl, which has been raised by the troika. For me it was a shameful situation, 15 days after a law was passed, to take on the obligation to abolish this procedure - because you have not yet done so - and to turn to the old law. You have tried to assess publicly yourself - and I have heard you repeatedly - all the managers of hospitals before the committee provided for in the law in force and before there was an assessment. And since yesterday the amendment, which we said was a solution to the problem of the university hospital, has developed a paraphilism, Minister, and that is where I would like to conclude, which says that this amendment opens the way for the expulsion of all or many administrations of hospitals, as it allows hospitals to function headlessly for a period of time. I think that, because of the news, it is also a crucial question, to which I would like an answer. I would like you to tell us what you intend to do with hospital administrations and if you intend to replace them with the provisions of the law in force, i.e. following an evaluation and a listing, or if you intend to drive out administrations and leave hospitals with the director of medical services and the Colvic Board, as provided for in the second paragraph of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u54	Mr Barriott, thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to defend in advance the amendment that has been tabled since last night by the Ministry of Environment and Energy's draft law on pension arrangements, etc., which solves a serious problem that has been in recent months in some hospitals in the country. First of all, I will answer all your questions, because from what I understand you have devoted the greatest time to the issue of hospital administrations. You have also put some other questions to your question, which I will answer as a whole. For a number of reasons, therefore, some managers or subordinates of hospitals, who carry out respective debts of president and vice-president of the hospital board have resigned or left for various reasons, even for health reasons, in the previous months at different hospitals in the country. It has been over a quarter that has not been replaced and based on the codes of the administrative and collective bodies is considered illegal the composition of the boards and they cannot make decisions, creating major problems on many issues, in terms of staff, the NRP, as you have seen, in studies and projects made and in general issues of proper operation of hospitals. That is the situation that the amendment is curing. It's a request from your own hospital, like other hospitals. This provision entitles the Boards to meet. even after the end of the quarter. The composition, in the absence of a deputy commander, if any, shall also be allowed to be legal, in the absence of a commander, if there is a commander, i.e. there is a president, to be a legal composition. Finally, in the nine-member boards, in the interconnected hospitals, if both are absent, the director of the administrative financial service can be president, which the law that had been passed did not give. We treat this imperfection of the law, allowing management boards to function. From there on, I come to the other issues you have raised with your question and I will say more detailed about the administration. You ask whether these permanent staff posts will be immediately announced. But we have created permanent staff seats, nine hundred and eighty-five throughout Greece, from six posts at the Hospital of Larissa, two HR of auxiliary health personnel, three assistants of chambers, one operator of medical devices, one of pharmacists and in progress from previous crises, which had been lost in some drawers of the Ministry for known reasons, are five recruitments of permanent staff of the ESS, which together with some four hundred we have put them forward and started slowly and are appointed. Of course, any requests from your hospitals in connection with the increase in funding, which we have recently asked - and I reply to another question about the possibility of emergency funding - we have given, if you have not understood it, emergency funding, which, for the hospitals of your own RES from about 150 million to 12 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u55	Five million is for the University Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u56	But wait a minute. There are some things you should know because you're a colleague. Well, the 12 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u57	Eight is total.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u58	But don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Barriot, whatever you have, you can tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u60	The 12 million euros went to the 5th Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from there the 3.6 million went to the Hospital in Larissa and 1.2 to the "Cutlimblaio", a total of 4.8 million euros. All requests from hospitals for a notice of subsidiary doctors were given this opportunity. And, of course, today, I am announcing that within 15 days, the actions in question have already been put in the 'Guarantee' - ninety subsidiary doctors, and this will be much accelerated in the next few days, when the process of reforming the budgets in all the hospitals in the country is completed. At the moment we are at the seventy-five in all ninety and will be able to meet all the demands made by the hospitals and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. From there on, as far as the overtime question is concerned, the Ministry has financed your own RU, as well as all the RUs. In particular, for the first three quarters of this year it has been financed with EUR 3,64.640 of which EUR 2,651,340 for on-calls on 20 May, 23 July and 18 September and 813.00 for overtime on 16 June, 21 July and 17 September. There is also the appropriations for the fourth quarter. They are secured for all hospitals in the country. From there on, it is clear that there is a different rate of response from region to region. The ministry did what he should have done. The money has been credited to hospital accounts, but there are shortcomings and malfunctions in some areas. For example, in western Macedonia or Crete all have been regularly paid. The Peloponnese by 20 November will be paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u61	Minister, please finish it. We're already in six minutes. You have a secondary right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u62	From there on there there are some malfunctions in some OHIMs or in some health centres, but we are pressing for them to be resolved through the reorganisation of the administrative mechanism in the next period. That is what I have to say in the first place, and I shall be back in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. Mr Barriotta, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u64	The Minister's position was according to the modern term, the train, that is, fashion, forward today, after replying to the questions I intended to put in secondary terms. You have not responded, of course, to what you intend to do with the hospital administrations. So I bring it back, since you have time in your speech. I would like to point out that everything you say is a little - quite rightly, and I agree. The funding is there, but it's not enough. That was the point of asking for emergency funding. It's a big hospital. It is a hospital that you know covers all central Greece at secondary and tertiary level. From this point of view, it has enormous needs. But you are giving me the opportunity to go ahead and to point out to the workers that there is a bad habit that holds - and not only in Thessaly - the fact that there are arbitrary cuts of 25% - 30% of them. This also concerns on-calls and overtime for nurses, who are paid when they are paid, but are illegally paid. They are entangled, which are illegally cut, and even in budgets we will find it before us in health, because most of them will end sometime in the near future, and thus add costs to the hospital, which is a matter we now simply throw under the carpet. This is a big issue that is not just about the hospital. The health centers of the area are prevalent, because everyone is unpaid from 1-1-2015 or from 1-5-2015 on a case-by-case basis. This is not such a good picture of payments in the region, and this is about the pace of funding and the weaknesses of the administration and administration of the Ministry of Health, which have already failed in the past six months to manage, for example, health centres. Also, the Ministry was dramatically delayed in tabling the amendment that it was necessary to enable the ambulances to move and to start feeding the health centres, with the well-known history you know, so that we do not expand. The hospital has serious staff shortages. You said for yourself - I was going to point it out too - that of the nine hundred eighty appointed by the two invitations that came out, it takes eight, of which no one is a nurse, in a hospital that has many large gaps and operates with 90% -95% completeness. We must not forget that horizontal cuts and horizontal allocations are by definition unfair. When you don't evaluate and you don't know what the work each hospital produces, you can't make distributions. That's a big problem. There is the big question on what criteria are the allocations of new appointments, few appointments, minimum ones. In fact, there are few. There were four thousand five hundred, according to the Prime Minister, there were three thousand two hundred and I'm very afraid - I wish I could disprove - that they would probably be fewer. On what criteria are the allocations made? The old hospital, "Koutlibnelio", for example, completed the MAF after a marathon age process. There is no provision for staffing. In order to work, he wants elementary staff. There's nowhere to be predicted. Are they entering the algorithm or are we going to continue to make big, pharaonic constructions and forgetting them to spider? Can we sort this out? Is there a distribution? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will ask Mr Lambroulis for his sensitivity and a little time, because I would like to raise a very important issue that is agitated by Thessaly, Minister, and we have discussed it in private here. This is the theme of the "service" of cancer patients, the treatment of cancer patients in Thessaly, which is the great "hole", the great shame, if you want the National Health System for a million people, as the conditions and infrastructures are minimal, obviously not on your own responsibility. So the only radiotherapy machine in Thessaly has been beyond the limit of life for many years. It works thanks to the "kill" of the boy, who has been destroyed for years and very soon will cease to function. The only hope to be replaced is the pending Niarchor donation, as you know, which concerns seven machines throughout the country and which is at risk of being lost because there is no staff. The Niarchus Foundation wants to ensure that the installation of donations can work. The University, as I have said in private, has the ability to operate it. He's got a department and a staff. But there are two radiation physics missing. The hospital administration claims that having a budget balanced - and, anyway, housewives, not to say big talk - can absorb the cost of hiring two radiation physics. I would therefore ask you to look at the issue with particular sensitivity, as it is at risk with the Nicaraguan Nicaraguan donation to be lost. We have discussed this and have said it too many times that we are in a critical situation from now on. With the finite budgets available, equipment and investment in equipment are minimal to zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u65	Mr Barriott, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u66	I think it is very important that the possibility of radiotherapy is not lost in Thessaly, which is already minimal and leads the majority of patients with such needs in the "Inter-Balkan", in the private centers of Athens and in large hospitals outside of Thessaly, burdening them too, which are already congested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u68	Mr Barriot, as you understand, it is our government's political choice to support the public health system. Anything that helps in this direction, we're going to'supply' to be done. The criteria for selecting staff seats are to do with the proposals that are being sent to us by the hospitals and the OSHs, and on the basis of the need, which you know very well. There are urgent, urgent and medium-term needs. There is therefore a distribution. However, the distribution of the two thousand four hundred seats, six hundred of which are for doctors, one hundred for the EKD and one thousand for seven hundred are for hospital staff. On the basis of the proposals that will come from the hospitals and OSH, the allocation of this staff will be assessed. However, I would like you to be a little more heartfelt and say 'bravo' to this government, because after five years of stopping appointments, we stopped prosecuting and started hiring the National Health System. After six years a notice for nine hundred and eighty-five permanent staff in the health system came out. And until February, the other proclamation will come out for two thousand four hundred people. So, really, we shouldn't tidy up. We can't solve everything in a moment and a minute. We are beginning to solve many problems and at the same time throughout Greece. Every day I and Andreas Xanthos deal with the smallest and the biggest problems, for we have received a system and one thing that stinks from the top to the nails and which needs to be changed. And it's gonna change! And because it needs to be changed, that is why the administrations will also change. Mr. Barriott, to come back to time, I would like to tell you that I did not evaluate commanders. The managers of the DSOs did, as they had to, an assessment of the administrations of the hospitals. And this assessment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u69	The law that applies says other things. Change him!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u70	Listen to me, Mr Barriotta! I heard you very carefully. Don't fly! I'm much better at flying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Barriot, please! Don't fly. Let the Minister finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u72	The Directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u73	Minister, excuse me for ten seconds. Listen! We would prefer to listen to the ministers, as the ministers listen to the MPs. That's the one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u74	It's bad, hooey!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u75	Secondly, we are already approaching the moment the legislative work begins. There are other Members who are waiting to be so stupidly for the topical and urgent debates. So please don't interrupt. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u76	It's a little bad for us to fly. And you know, I do it, and I do it a lot better when I have to. The question is: Persons are policymakers. The political plan for the reconstruction of the National Health System, namely the increase in services to citizens and the fairer functioning of the system, cannot serve it, Mr Barriots, people who, in the past three - four years, have given written samples and have actively participated in the dissolution of the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u77	"How" is what I'm asking. Change them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u78	Don't fly! Clearly, then, it's going to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u79	I'm asking! Tell me how!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u80	I'm answering! You're nervous about not changing the administrations. Why is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u81	None!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Barriot, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u83	I have a specific political position. I said it yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u84	There is an evaluation committee, which, based on the assessment made by the DPO commanders, will assess the existing ones and decide who will remain and who will leave. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u85	Is there a committee? There's no committee!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u86	There will be an open notice for commander and sub-command after this again in an open procedure and the next one will be judged by evaluation. That's the stuff. That's how it's gonna happen. We'll put the system back up...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u87	Minister, please conclude, although you have interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u88	But I've been interrupted. I cannot answer everything, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u89	Make an effort, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u90	I do. I think I've done it. I answered the question of administration. That's how we're gonna move on. The members of the board of directors will be changed in the next few days. This amendment covers legislative gaps in the operation and supplementation of the system. There will be a transitional period during which the commander's administrative debts will be performed by the Director of Medical Service at the board meeting. will be covered by his deputy or, if he has remained, himself, etc. There will be evaluation and installation of the new administrations on a visible and short-term horizon, so that we can resolve a number of problems, Mr Barriota, you mentioned earlier. Because it's because it's when it's money in the U.S. and in the hospitals and it's not given to people, even with the cuts. That money was the budget. And for the first time, again after five years, we have given an increase of 150 million euros and the year will be longer and you will see that. And that was for the first time, and you had to recognize that. So when the money is from 17 September in hospitals, it's something that's to blame and it's not given - even this. That's another reason to change some administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Aigaleo Municipal School. Also, our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having previously participated in the educational program "The Workshop of Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, sixteen students and students, and an educational attendant from the 5th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the second question of the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Bukouros, on the failure to supply POS machines from small and medium-sized traders and professionals, due to their debts to the Greek State, the insurance funds and the banks. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, thank you. But you will allow me to note something, which is not about you personally, but about the practice of the Bureau in general, to show an excessive tolerance - in time, I mean - to the positions of the Ministers and to deplete its rigour in Members' positions. But here it is a Parliament. It's not a Ministerial Council. I said it was none of your business, Mr President. It's about more general habits. I'm holding the times and I'm expecting the hell out of here, like you said. I've been here since 9.30 a.m. and I've seen the ministers in their prototypes and in their dentures overtaken the semester and seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Bukkaro, wait a minute. My intervention will be removed from your time. At least at today's meeting, but also at previous meetings...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u94	I referred more generally, Mr President. But today it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u95	At least for today's sitting you are unfair and that is not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u96	No, of course not. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u97	There has been tolerance for both the ministers and the Members, and I think that there has been sufficient time for them to develop their questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I do not wish to waste time in procedural terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u99	So the Bureau - if you like it in general terms - is tolerable, especially during parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u100	Yes, with an exaggerated sensitivity to the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u101	Let's move on to your question. I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u102	So let us move on to the question. Minister, according to the National Confederation of Greek Trade, approximately a hundred and fifty thousand terminal appliances - the well-known POS - are operating, and there is a need for some four hundred thousand such terminals. After capital controls you know better than we all know that the consumption habits of the Greeks have changed dramatically and of course the use of credit and debit cards is necessary. This is the approach of consumers, because on the part of professionals and traders a large number of problems have arisen. In other words, hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized people are basically out of business because they cannot obtain these specific terminal devices. And it is neither a question of poor procurement nor a question of costs and bank charges. These have not yet been resolved. Banks to fictitious customers also grant free of charge or finance terminal devices themselves. Furthermore, there is also the possibility of introducing funding from Community funds for the supply of such devices, as the Commissioner for Financial Affairs replied, Mr Jonathan Hill, in reply to a question from the Member, Mr Dimitris Papadimoulis. Therefore, something else is happening and all 4/5 of the market are essentially out of supply of terminal appliances. Of course, you and the Members of Parliament and the government know what this means both for the operation of the economy in general and for the State's income, but above all for the professional survival of all these small and medium-sized enterprises. I would therefore like you, Minister, to inform us whether you are considering any legislative initiative which will enable this large mass to be effectively reintegrated into the economic process. Because that's what this is about. And you know that banks refuse to supply small and medium-sized enterprises with terminal devices mainly because of debts, whether they are banking or public funds. More than 60% of SMEs are debtors of their insurance funds. In other words, we are talking about changing consumer habits and economic conditions in the country after capital controls, but much of the small and medium-sized ones, which we want to believe remains the backbone of the economy - traders, professionals, doctors, lawyers, etc. - looking for the installation of terminal devices, they are unable to obtain them. What initiatives will you take, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr Typho Alexiadis, Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are quite right to raise a huge issue before us, an issue which must be solved immediately. Because all this great change that we are planning to make on the question of extending electronic transactions - for reasons that have been explained many times and do not need to waste time on this - cannot be done with the existing institutional framework. We have two major problems: One problem is what you are putting very well, that unfortunately too many businesses, while under pressure from the Ministry of Finance, cannot obtain such machines because they are outside the banking system because they have joined TIERISIA or are unable to meet their banking obligations. One big problem is that. The second major problem is that those who are still able to join, if the existing institutional framework continues and debts to tax and debts to the bank, what they receive through the POs that will be installed - once they are allowed - the next morning the bank or tax will go and seize these amounts from those accounts. We are aware of these problems. We are not in the mood to describe them. We're in the mood to solve them. We will therefore bring legislation on these issues that will firstly resolve the question of the possibility of installing POS from all the categories of taxpayers. Even in this direction, we have been planning to make it compulsory for anyone who starts to start a business. Secondly, we will bring in another provision which will enable the bank and the public to make this money available from the accounts. Otherwise, this big change will not succeed, which we must do for the reasons we have explained, namely an account, which will have as income the money that the POS or the electronic transactions of the company are going to make through the banks, and as a result this account will have what it consumes with the special card that the company will have for professional expenses or what it spends on electronic transactions to pay for its suppliers. We must go to these changes if we want this system to succeed. And it must change attitudes first of all, the Ministry of Finance and then the banks too, and besides, they must pay competitive charges. We have been told that there are cases where the other person goes to pay a PPC account via the internet value of 33 euros and gets him a fee of 5 euros, he goes to another bank store to pay with his card the PPC account and gets him a fee of 0,30 euros. These belong to yesterday, and they must be stopped if we want to move on to another level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bukkoro, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with regard to charges I am sure you know - I am referring to charges for transactions with credit and debit cards - that from 9 December the new European Regulation will apply - which, if my memory is not cheating, was voted last March - where the charges for credit cards cannot exceed 0.3% and the charges for debit cards may not exceed 0.2%. In any case, we have an important rationalisation with the new regulation of the European Union. I am also pleased that you have focused on the core of the question, which is the exclusion of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises from the possibility of supplying terminal appliances. On one condition, Minister. This government has become accustomed to saying a lot and doing little. But you are dealing with this matter, which is also about the collection of public revenues and about the proper functioning of the market. You gave us an "sensitivity" for the provision you bring, that is, from 1-1-2016, it will make it compulsory to have such a machine with the start of an operation. I imagine that this will also be the case, if there is also the necessary legislative framework, for the businesses in operation that we are now discussing. So on the condition that all of this is done very soon, namely that terminals can be supplied to these traders, professionals and, more generally, small and medium-sized businessmen, - of course, the requirement from 1-1-2016 is in the positive direction and for reasons of tackling tax evasion and for reasons of the orderly functioning of the market, as I said before - I would like to see a more concrete commitment from you in your dentistry, if you are ready at the moment, for the provisions that have to do with the integration of the excluded small and medium-sized ones from the supply of terminals today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. It will be the next time, through the procedures envisaged, the full proposals of the Government on electronic transactions, which cover these issues and a number of other issues, because the government's firm position and orientation are the full extension of electronic transactions. That won't stop us. We will not hesitate to clash with any interests, we will not hesitate to give solutions, because both citizens and businesses will serve and tax evasion, but we will also be able to collect direct revenue. The VAT collected by a company in Mykonos on 25 August has not yet come to the Treasury funds. We wait until October and November. But if we had connected the cash machines and had POS machines in these stores, VAT would have already come the next day. In this area, then, you can be sure that the Government's full plan will come for the full expansion of the electronic transactions that will solve all these issues. But I do not agree with you on the fact that we are saying a lot and doing little. As far as fiscal policy is concerned, we are, unfortunately, doing the opposite. We say very little and we do too much. However, it is not intended to project what we are doing, we do not have a pre-election period, it is intended to have results. I am delighted, if there is a request from the Committee on Economic Affairs, that I come one day and have a comfortable time and that we fully explain what we have done and give any evidence. Like also to provide a planning of what the Ministry of Finance intends to do, because, as it is clear, at this time we are looking at solving the immediate problems, we are looking at dealing with the issue of prerequisites, which is a very serious and important job, but we are planning what it is to do for tomorrow. Because we don't just have the Treasury agreements. We need to go to major tax changes, which you are sure will hit smuggling, tax evasion and corruption and carry the tax burden from the low and middle to high and very high incomes and property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the last time question, let me tell you that the fourth question under number 64/2-11-2015, the second question of the Athens Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, to the Minister of Health, concerning the increase of VAT in private care services for elderly and mental patients, is not discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. Also, the fifth question under number 62/2-11-2015 of a second question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, concerning the German automotive industry "VOLKSWAGEN", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. We enter the third with number 55/29-10-2015 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jelegis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the tax-spring, tax-spring storm for farmers, as well as the delay in the payment of the single payments of 2015. The question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after the elections on 20 September it seems clear that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government now presents its real face to the agricultural world and the primary sector. It seems clear that this whole period of time has not been a priority on your part towards the rural area. On the contrary, it seems that all the equivalents in the third memorandum were loaded to the farmers' backs, when those who have seen the light of publicity, about 7 billion of the 14.5 billion taxes, in the three-year period '16-18 will come from the rural area. Farmers are not only invited to pay unbearable taxes and levies, but they also lose what they have had to date: the timely payment of subsidies, compensation - they have to pay in 2014 and 2015 - the refund of VAT and excise duty since 1913. In the most critical productive period, the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence deprives, Minister, of funding for agriculture by farmers. At this critical moment when the new growing season begins - starting on 1 October - the situation is even more critical because of the delay in payment of the direct payments of the advance for 2015, where you had the possibility of giving 75% this year - it is about 1.5 billion - to get farmers to grow, so that our farmers can get their feeds. And I ask: when will farmers get the rights anymore? When will the deposit be paid, although it is too late from now on? But, even now, do something. And when will the compensation of the ELGA for the previous years be paid and the year in which we are going? It is a mistaken choice and inconsistency and contradiction to talk about relaunching the economy through the agricultural sector and, on the other hand, to legislate in the opposite direction only those who have leaked outwards and have social automation now through non paper. We are hearing about taxing farmers' incomes from 13% to 20% for 2016 and 26% for 2017, the CFP aid tax from the first euro - is 12 000 for duty-free! - the simulation of farms with businesses, with businesses, with tax advance payments, double this year and 100%. It sounds like an increase, a tripling of the insurance levy, an increase in the price of the agricultural stream, we have abolished the subsidy on agricultural oil, an increase in raw materials in the agricultural sector to 23%. Indeed, Minister, all this will result in a dramatic reduction in the production base of our country's livestock sector, a reduction in the value of agricultural production, a reduction in agricultural income, an increase in the value of agricultural inputs. Stop, finally, sow taxes, or you'll reap storms!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, please for a time-tolerance - and there is no other question - why so much has been said and if we combine them, my dear colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, the Bureau always shows tolerance to both the ministers and the Members, I repeat, after the debate we had with Mr Bukouros. But this tolerance does not go beyond the limit. You have the right to dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u114	I will try, as far as possible, to answer the many questions that have been raised. But I want, my dear colleague, to make one thing clear. For the two previous memorials you have implemented on your own, you say that 'all well-built'. We who are going to implement the third Memorandum, will make it all seas, storms. Let's make it clear between us that at least we agreed together on the third memorandum. Because you and we are particularly sensitive to the rural area. We want his European path, and we do not want to lose these amounts, either aid or a rural development programme. So we are now called upon to apply the third Memorandum. On the eve of elections and after the elections, we said that we would try as hard as possible the painful consequences that exist to ease them, to make them milder. Our position is clear. We invited you to this effort and we didn't see any of you. We have worked out too many scenarios, which I will see you. But what I want to make clear from the outset is what we received and what we found in the space. I have to say it, since you've been like this. Only by finding over 3 billion financial corrections and recoveries you understand the difficulty we have had. In particular, for the part of the cooperative recoveries, money was given without the approval of the European Commission. I will present to you the European Commission's recent response, where our country is threatened to suffer a new Kuropoit, every day there are fines - you know the case - which you understand will be extremely painful, particularly for the state budget. I will put it before the Court of Justice, which says that 'the services of the European Commission reserve the right to appeal against Greece in accordance with Article 108'. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is because for years, from 1992 until now, you had not made a single move. If you'd like me to name you Ministers, I have no problem. From Hatzigakis, the famous arrangement from Koskina since 1992 with the cooperatives, from Moraite in 1994 again with the cooperatives, from Kontos again various decisions on cereals. We found all this in front of us. What we have received, particularly in relation to the rural area in terms of taxation. You didn't bring him. In this respect, I should like to point out that, in view of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work, it is important to point out that, in the light of the above considerations, it is important that the Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that they comply with the provisions of the directive in force in the Member States. It is what we call a'skeptic' activity, which has nothing to do with the activities of the rest of the professionals. So, you forgot, you brought the 13% regulation from the first euro, you included both subsidies and subsidies in this particular... [[Noise in the Chamber]] There's a relevant circular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u115	That's funny!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u116	Minister, you're short.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u117	No, we need to clear things up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u118	They said it to the committee, but they packed it up. Inaccurate, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u119	But you have a second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u120	There's a relevant circular, ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u121	Listen: In one question the agricultural question cannot be cleared up. Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u122	We made one thing clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u123	Minister, I'm sorry. Don't interrupt me. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u124	So we brought a...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u125	We've done well so far, in the last question we have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u126	In the summer of the '15s where...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u127	Minister, third time and fourth time together. I would ask you to be brief. The question is specific. We cannot discuss the agricultural issue in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u128	Oh, no. By the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u129	Answer the questions of the honourable Member, so that we can continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, it is not possible, when the rural world has been attacked, to hear a trial of intent today that we have destroyed the space for tax purposes. You'll see them, we'll see them along the way. I would just say that you brought the tax with 13% both aid and, with us in the summer of '15, 12 000 euros from the aid came out of the tax. This also applies to the income of the '15s. This arrangement shall apply. From there on, we'll see what we'll do further. I'm putting these on to see what consequences the space has had. I don't have time to go on. I'll take a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have a second. Let's hear Mr. Jelloney, and you'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u132	...because there's indeed a question about payments. I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor and I'd be beg within the third of your dentistry. I'll beg you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u134	I'm strictly in my time. Ten seconds I got extra. I believe that the Minister has not understood that he is a Minister and that he must give solutions any more. He's not in the Opposition. Mr President, I have not heard anything about the questions as to when direct aid will be granted and what will happen with all this. You yourself described these measures as 'floor plywood' for the rural area, and it is really a shameful burden that the agricultural sector has to bear. These specific tax measures are disproportionate. That's what you said, Minister. Regarding what happened in relation to the first memoranda, I must remind you that in October 2009 that the PASOK Government took over until November 2011, which had the sole political responsibility of the government, we doubled the refund of the excise duty on oil, we doubled the VAT return, and we did not at all affect the agricultural sector. From there on, yes, there was tax on n. 4192/2013 for agricultural income, but of the order of 13%. It was reserved to the Minister on the basis of the law whether or not the subsidies would be taxed. Eventually, when were you telling the truth? Then when did you ask for tax-free subsidies and put the tax-free 12,000 euros, or now that you're going to abolish it? Now that you're taking insurance contributions to tripleing, now that with what we see outwards, you're going to 26% of taxation from 13%? In fact, I would like to remind you that tax has actually increased from 2009 to 2013. From 141 million to 449 million. I doubt what happened with no paper outwards, the brochures, that farmers do not pay. In other words, we had an increase of 211%. Where do you want to go with 26% now, when today the farmer pays - in relation to the clearance - added value to agricultural production, 7.5% of insurance contributions against the average Europeans at 3% and the neighbouring competitive states, Bulgaria, Hungary, 0.3% to 0.1%? Minister, you have also said that we are not making proposals. First of all, we were not invited, but there is an amendment tabled, the one that came yesterday with the bill we were discussing about abolishing the excise duty on oil. We have made a proposal to establish here and now the agricultural oil, the farmer's card, the digital register. You will not find out how to reduce production costs today, especially in terms of energy. This applies to Italy and other European countries. It does not conflict with European directives. Here is a glorious field of glory. Call us and we're here to make suggestions. From our side as a Democratic Partnership of PASOK - DIMAR, we have always had a special relationship with rural space and the world of the countryside. In this effort that is now being done, we will be in front of and next to the rural world, in order to prevent this tax-based, tax-sensitive objective you have set, this storm that is due to take place in the rural area. Because we really want this sector of the economy that is a developmentist, it is social, it is national that we support it in order to keep the Greek farmers in the region, so that the social fabric is not broken. Here, then, is what you are now doing with works. But I am waiting for a concrete answer on the date of payment of direct payments. That is what is interesting today for the Greek farmers who are watching us to hear from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Jelloney. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u136	I think we should now respond to what is particularly relevant to farmers. We have a hard deal. We will try in the tax section to approach the issue through keeping cost-benefit accounts, where we really believe there will be VAT collection such that it can still work as equivalent. Secondly, because there is a particular demand for a stricter definition of the farmer's profession, we will try to treat the farmers in particular. And, of course, as far as the issue of aid is concerned, we will insist on the EUR 12 000. A lot of scripts are starting to get in. We don't have time. It is not possible, for example, for compensation which is considered an aid to be taxable. I'm not allowed to have time. That's what we're talking about in terms of taxation. The second part relating in particular to the OGA, the insurance issue, the general proposal that exists is the introduction of a national pension for the farmer, that is, the EUR 330 that is currently being taken up to EUR 385, the EUR 390. The premium should relate to the upper and upper part and has its return function. These are issues on which, above all, we will insist on the relevant negotiation that we are going to make. From there on, on the other issues you have raised and on payments, I want to make one thing clear: Payments have been made and made and started since 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013. By December 15, all debts by the end of 2014 will have been cleared. They'll all be paid. What now happens with the aid in terms of advance payment: you know, we all know that we are entering a new common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u137	What were you doing in the nine months?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Jeleigh, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u139	Please. We were implementing a new common agricultural policy. They changed the data and there was some delay. It has never been paid before 10-15 November the years under the new agricultural policy to date. We therefore commit that by the end of November, more than 70% will be paid. But you should bear in mind it and contact the farmers that in the new common agricultural policy the figure is 10-15% less. There is the "creaming", 30% that goes to February. So we want to be clear about the farmers. With regard to other issues that you have raised, I honestly have not yet been able to understand that you are insisting on what has been done with OPEKEPE, the money deposited in a banking institution without interest, we have used them on issues definitely budgetary, but at the same time giving 2,3-2,4%. This money involved advances in the rural development programme and they will be offset when it is completed and then that money will go from where we got it. Why do you keep putting this thing on? Or why do you raise the issue of ELGA? I'll tell you one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u140	Pay the 2014 damage! Why don't you pay them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u141	No dialogue, Mr. Jelloney. No dialogue. Minister, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u142	In 2015 the ELGA paid EUR 124 million for compensation. Last year, in 2014, he paid 104 million euros. We need to make a few things clear. It cannot be in a place where the real consequences of your term of office, from your memorials, were the ones that led him to the present situation, saying that we will fight for the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u143	What memos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u144	He's gonna laugh, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u145	From your own memoirs you're not telling us! You're not ashamed of yourself! Aren't you ashamed to be talking already?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u146	You're welcome, Mr. Javarra. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u147	Aren't you finally blushing? Are you still moving the finger?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u148	Please, Mr. Javarra. Respect the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u149	But it's unacceptable. Are you addressing the National Representation even now that you should sit in your nest and not speak? Have you realised that you are insulting the representatives of the people with this style?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u150	Please respect the Bureau! The Bureau has already announced the completion of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u151	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue to discuss in principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Retirement arrangements, incorporation into Greek Law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013 ‘For the adaptation of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’. We propose that the debate be continued at the outset, as it was announced, until noon at 14.00 p.m., to proceed with the list of speakers, as has been stated at the outset. Approximately at that time - we calculate it at around 14.00 p.m. - we will enter the debate on articles and amendments. They will continue to speak perhaps from the list of speakers enrolled in the debate at the outset and will, of course, begin about that time and the list of speakers on the articles. At the end of the day, of course, those Members will speak. If the House agrees, we shall proceed to the first speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, on a point of order I would like to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u154	Ms. Manolaku, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u155	We ask the Minister to make it clear whether there are other amendments or not. I'm talking about the government. Already more than six have been posted. Are you going to testify more during the day? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u156	The ones you know. That's what I know. The ministers will come and support them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u157	It is also a request from the Bureau. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u158	They can't be here until the last minute and we don't have time to read them. There are limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u159	Mrs Manolakou, you are right, as are the other Members. We call, if you wish, and from the Bureau of the Government, on the ministers involved in the bill, if they intend to table amendments, to do so in a reasonable time so that the Members of Parliament, at the end of the debate on the bill and its vote, can read and draw up the amendments. I have the honour to inform the House that MP SYRIZA Kavala, Emmanoulidis Dimitris, is applying for a absence abroad from 13-11-2015 to 16-11-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u160	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u161	My remark comes in addition to what has been said, but I believe it is useful emphatically. Some amendments have been tabled. I say, therefore, that the ministers must come to justify them and analyse them. Among them are the amendment on fines that are likely to have been imposed on training enterprises, where 23% has been imposed and there are companies that have been penalised. The amendment comes and cancels these sanctions. It is in the right direction, but it opens up the question of VAT in education, which suggests or maintains VAT 23% or that the government today must bring about an amendment which, in accordance with its commitments, will change VAT scales in education. We expect the Minister of Finance or the Deputy to come for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. What has already been said is also true with the intervention of Mrs Manolakou and yours and the Bureau, and I think we are expressing all Members of Parliament. In any case, the Government or the Ministers responsible should come to support or table their amendments. I have just been informed by Mr Paulakis, the Deputy Minister for Health, because a similar statement has been made that he will table an amendment today - that he will come to present and support the Ministry of Health's amendment at approximately 13.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, may I ask you a question on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u164	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u165	Will the situation of the speakers currently in existence apply until 14.00 p.m. and at 14.00 p.m. open another situation? So, they're only gonna talk to those who are until 14:00?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u166	Yes, we are starting today's process with those who have been included in yesterday's list at the outset. We are setting a timetable, as I have said before, so that at 1 p.m. at 3 p.m., the debate on the articles will be closed at 3 p.m. Since there are Members who are on the list who have not spoken from the list in principle, they will continue to speak. They will also be able to speak of the articles. At the same time, there will also be a process of listing Members who want to speak on the articles. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, we had warned by our rapporteur, Mr Manatis, many times in committee and yesterday in plenary that not only late, but other unnecessary, amendments, should not come last minute. They've already been posted and you don't know how many more will be posted. And because these amendments have nothing to do with the core of the bill, we ask: What prevented you from bringing them to committee? Because many of them are extremely short and should have been debated on the substance in the committee with the Ministers. Mr President, I think that you too should have asked us to stop the amendments that we, too, have tabled on behalf of SYRIZA at last. However, it is not just unnecessary and delaying amendments. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed witnessing a process of completeing Parliament, the legislative function and the way in which drafts are brought into Parliament. It is not only that this directive enters with a number of provisions, which are irrelevant and would be unrelated not only to the issues of energy efficiency, which is the core of the bill, but not to the real problems of this country. So we have a legislative function that the government is trying in every way to overcome and relax, bringing arrangements at the last minute. We have, however, from Article 1, started an unacceptable function by correcting previous sins. What has the House voted on, ladies and gentlemen? What did you vote for? We voted against it. What did you vote for 15 days ago? You voted for a specific regulation on pensions signed by your Ministers - the Ministers of SYRIZA and ANEL - and had signed another document by the Ministers and another document you voted for and the Greek Parliament voted on it. In other words, we have reached a point that the government does not know what legislative initiatives it brings to the House and that the House is voting for others and that the government is proposing others. That's where you brought it. This has no precedent. What happened with Article 1 has no precedent. But on the substance of pension rights, we as a Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMMAMA have tabled an amendment to that effect, Minister, so that we can finally clarify the issue of established pension rights. For Mr Petropoulos said'say' and'sayed' in the House. He said he accepted our clarification, which we proposed, and after two hours he undoed himself and said "I do not accept it". We have therefore tabled an amendment clarifying the subject and please see it and accepting it. Because it is not possible for insured persons and pensioners to be hampered in this way. More broad, though. Because if, ladies and gentlemen, we can all say in this House that the insurance issue is of critical national social importance for both the economy - first and foremost for the economy - then we should definitely have a seriousness. And nowadays, he's on the websites and most blogs, a new statement by Minister Katrugalos that he'll be combined - says - retirement with age. That's all. The other day, we had announcements of an extraordinary contribution, other announcements, we had Prime Minister Tsipras saying 'I do not commit the conclusion'. We have a government that hides behind a finding and which is today 5 November and we still have not seen the government's official positions on this very serious issue. What do we see? Ministers who are saying and slugging and a parliament that votes and votes not only for what is good, and we voted together in the summer - but also for those regulations that you are voting today, which you have voted for on your own 15 days ago. And, of course, a House which is backwards rapidly, because SYRIZA alone supported the abolition of a small workforce of the Greek industry, small brewery. And this is where you were alone to defend who? The monopolies that control the highest percentage of beer consumption? Why, Minister? Is that also in the management of the oligarchy and its stepping-up? Is that a measure of social justice too? You waited from your extreme right-wing comrades to the government, not to make this measure, and you believe in what? By the end of the committee you wanted to pass the arrangement? Strange things. And what exactly are you doing in education? And not just in education, because I'm going to talk about health too soon. Do you bring a shameful arrangement to Article 42 that does what? He wants party boards to manipulate. What, then, is this regulation on your article? It shall enjoy all qualifications and criteria for the administrative experience of teachers in relation to their ability to be chosen as members of the Boards of Directors. In other words, it gives the regional director the uncontrollable - your party was set up under no criteria and no qualifications - to choose whoever is educationing in an attempt to control the situation. You went to check the situation by putting the original and new, in the negative sense of the term, the elections in schools and the school directors, did not "show you". The street says that only 40% of school managers managed to put your own "rolled" and after that you said to bring the function to check the education councils. That's disgraceful. Are you the new one? Are you the impeccable? Has the Prime Minister said that it's for the sake of dignity? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, one or two minutes of your tolerance, please. The current arrangement was said, Minister of Education, that teachers, appointed as members of the service councils, had to have at least Grade C and specific criteria for educational and administrative experience. Now with the new setup? ‘Dogs, sing!’. As long as you're the good guys, the party good guys and the controlled ones. And I shall end with a last-minute amendment which is too late in the field of health. Firstly, it is your fault because, when hospital administrations resign, you start the procedures. Start them, what are you waiting for? You've been a government for ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u168	What ten years of government?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u169	Let me finish a little bit. You are now bringing an amendment to the administrations of hospitals, which, as I read it and saw it, has proper and unacceptable regulations. Why did you not bring this amendment into discussion? If you really wanted the judgement procedures of the boards and the governors, why didn't you start them from the beginning that you took as a government? And you now bring to Parliament at the last minute a provision on how to replace hospital administrations and correct a situation which you left nine months ago. We are therefore in favour of any transparent procedure that you put forward, but you will find us directly against you in such terrain. I conclude by saying that it is not possible not only to vote in the first place - although, as our rapporteur has said to you, we naturally agree and have prepared this directive and we will vote on the relevant articles - this bill, which is the product of a propaganda of ideas in various regulations that you have brought, because you are precisely ideological and Stalinist propaganda protagonists. You are excellent at doing propaganda to put party submissives. You've got excellent! Plan for the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u170	You forgot the five - two - one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u171	You're dissatisfied, Mr. Comrade. What can we do? We have a memorandum, but we don't have a plan, we don't have investments. We only have a chance to control the parties' mechanisms and put them in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u172	Five-two-- one did you explain it to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the Municipal School of Agios Nikolaos Evia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Hatzidakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the image of our fellow citizens is growing, the impression is that although only forty-five days have passed since the elections, we are dealing with a government of tired, premature ageing. We are dealing with a government that these days after the elections, I think, has two basic features. The first feature is that it has not taken almost any initiative to get the machine of the Greek economy back on track, which is particularly necessary, as it is growing, even in the dry state, we have returned to recession. Greece again fell on the well of recession. So efforts, reform initiatives do not exist, privatizations do not take place. The airports which are an exception may be taken as an initiative by governments. Mr. Spirtzis, the Minister of Infrastructure says we'll cry about this initiative of government. The NRV is stuck, the public works are semi-pleasant or completely stopped, including the four major motorways. The second feature is that, at the same time, we have a government with views, many views, including Mr Friends' views on the Pontidian Genocide, contrary to one another's viewpoints of courgetry. See what has happened with VAT in private education, with beef, pork, GZOKER, KINO, etc. And we expect to see, at the end of the day, where the ball will sit in the different views of the government. However, the basic finding is one. We are dealing with a government that, in any case, is not the work, it is not the substance, it is not the know-how, it is not the result. That is why the economy is going backwards, so unemployment is fading, and that is why the horizon is gray. This bill here, which does not, of course, have a spine, has many examples that highlight these features of the government. I'll stand on three. Most articles in the bill deal with energy savings. That's a good initiative? That's right. It was also launched in the days of the Samara government to promote this initiative. But the government, like the country, will not be judged at the theoretical level, ladies and gentlemen. They'll be judged in fact. The substance has to do with a very specific programme that was under way and is heard by the name "I save by house". So in this programme - and I have information and I will speak with information - we had fifty thousand households to go back to last January. Of the fifty - thousand subjections they had been paid up until then forty - three to forty - four thousand households and left to pay the rest. From there on, the rate of payment has declined, as have subjugations. I'll tell you how many. From January to September they became five hundred and twenty-seven, and we have pre-accessions from the banks for thirty-four thousand. For a programme, therefore, which in practice supports the energy upgrade, which supports the construction sector, the government that brings this directive and is being taken over for three days, and the Minister has been talking about this 'coast', he has done absolutely nothing. So I ask Mr. Skourletis a question. And it's not rhetorical, I'm expecting an answer. Does it taste like what is going on in the end with this program 'I'm saving myself at home'? Where's the design? What about the thirty - four thousand households waiting to be supported by this programme? What about the construction sector, which is somehow waiting to work from this programme? The previous 'three-and-a-half' government has given 540 million euros under this programme. The current government did, I told you, just five hundred and twenty-seven submissions. Nothing! Almost zero. So what is the design, since you are - and rightly so - defenders of energy savings? What is the design and what is the result? The second issue. Regional waste management plans. It was right to discuss the fact that there was a centralist philosophy on the part of the government, as expressed in the original regulations, but to some extent also from legislative improvements. Because regions are not happy. Mrs Durou herself - yours - is not happy. But the subject is not a theoretical one at all. It is not just about whether the state is centralised or not, whether it supports regional government or not. It's about the design, he's the one about the waste. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy has frozen four public-private partnerships for integrated waste management, because dogmatically, ideologically, it was not in favour. He wanted to make this new national waste planning, which he wants to do alone and not involve the regions. The projects have been frozen, we have 800 million waiting from the new NSRF and at the same time, we have the Ministry of the Environment to fight with the Ministry of Development as to whether or not these PPP projects will proceed. I'm not saying it. The Court of Auditors, which examined the design of the Peloponnese for this PPP project, appeared with other positions the Ministry of Development and with other positions the Ministry of the Environment, the same government. If Mr Skourletis disagrees with what I say, let him go out and say it, because there are specific texts and concrete elements for them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, your environmental sensitivities are also clear, but as you go, we will be in danger of losing the European Union's funds for the environment as well. Because, small, very small units promoted by the Government, I fear that they are not compatible with the design of the NSRP and with the European Commission's perceptions on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u175	Little or big?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u176	Last example. We had gone ahead with the PPPs and you froze them. We want the design, the one that we have gone through and who, my dear colleague, supports the Ministry of Development today, but is not supported by the Ministry of the Environment. From there on I close with a final point of view on the notorious beer issue. We had a very strange debate in committee and in plenary on this matter so far. All we heard from some of SYRIZA's colleagues was: "Ba, it was from the OECD toolbox that you brought it from." Indeed, there were some of the OECD's suggestions in toolbox 2 after I left the ministry. But the OECD toolbox is not good news, ladies and gentlemen. The OECD is making suggestions. We ourselves rejected some 50 of these OECD proposals in the first toolbox. Secondly, did you who said yes to the committee yesterday and passed by a minority of the SYRIZA, understand why you support it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u177	He didn't come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u178	It didn't pass because only SYRIZA voted for it. But that's what I'm saying. The SYRIZA who voted for it understands why he supports it. No SYRIZA MEP was placed on the substance but by references to the toolbox. Most of all, however, the ministers who brought this regulation to the House did not support it. They didn't explain at all. We therefore have to deal with a government which in practice proves incompetent. We are dealing with an arrogant government, a government that is content with theories. Should I say it - if you want - I've had a drink? A government that wants to show that he has good intentions. But you should be aware that we will not reach our destination as a country certainly neither with arrogance nor with good intentions. So make a turn to realism if you really want to serve this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u179	Thank you. Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor we gave him before. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the provisions of the bill, I should first like to refer to two points. Firstly, it was withdrawn - fortunately - yesterday Article 52 on excise duty on beer, a regulation which promoted oligopoly and condemned domestic production, a proposal which opened the way to foreign interests. Aren't you, gentlemen of the government, talking about the country's productive reconstruction? Today a voice of oxen in the wilderness. Secondly, we are waiting for a responsible answer from the Prime Minister for Mr Philly's statements. Because the government is represented by the Prime Minister. It cannot be so serious that it closes with leaks from Maximus, leaks that they are personal views of the Minister of Education. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we must make one thing clear. The House, twenty-one years ago in 1994, recognised by its unanimous decision the Genocide of the Pontians, and it is our obligation that all of us, anyway, should respect it. I would point out here that this is the sealing of a great effort which began in 1991 at the initiative of Andreas Papandreou. Minister, with your statements you despise Parliament's decision, you deceive a martyr part of Hellenism. No respect on your part for the three hundred thousand victims of the Turkish atrocities. It's a disgrace. Use a different term, historically weakened, the term "national cleansing", to cover your unprecedented initial position that there is no Pontian Genocide! And here I ask: what is your declining and unequivocal claim? What scientific literature is it based on? The fact that there are components in SYRIZA is known. But there's no government component, Mr. Phile. That is why anyone who has a different view, resigns. Unless with your statements, Minister, you aim to disorientate public opinion. We have tabled important amendments to the draft law, which we invite you to accept. We have tabled an amendment to introduce a farm oil card. The government has decided to take on board farmers and abolish reduced oil taxation. We are therefore proposing a special card on agricultural oil so that farmers do not bear any more burdens - not, of course, uncontrollably, but on criteria, objectively and transparently - because farmers already have to deal with the SYRIZA - ANEL tax storm. We therefore have an income tax at 20% for 2016 and 26% for 2017, a subsidy tax from the first euro and an increase in VAT from 13% to 23% for farmland. At the same time, you tripled the OGA insurance contributions. A farmer in the first insurance category from 62 euros a month will pay 180 euros. A new blow, too, to drilling and stalks, but also to the determination of fresh milk. Gentlemen of the government, you put a tombstone in the primary sector. Support for the primary sector and its development must be a priority for all of us, because producing domestic wealth and redistributing it to citizens is a one-way way out of the crisis. The credit, ladies and gentlemen, have come to an end. Domestic wealth must be produced, which will be redistributed to the citizens. And I ask you: have you even brought a bill on the country's productive reconstruction? No, of course not. We have also tabled an amendment to remove distortions in the modern industry of co-production hydroponics plants. We have also asked for an amendment to abolish 23% of VAT on private education. Social reactions from students, parents, teachers, from IEKs and the professionals of the area are numerous and intense. You put VAT in the dentistry without having a plan for how to operate in the schools of corresponding support structures. You said you would restore the dignity of teachers of all levels. But you forgot to tell us how you would achieve this. With hunger wages? By abolishing jobs by imposing VAT or on voluntary work, as you once again said, Minister? You're giving a resounding blow to education. Such decisions want broad social consensus. You don't have it. You must accept the amendment. How far is it, Minister, to increase family spending on education? Today, every household is struggling to pay the increased EVH that you said you would abolish. We have called for VAT not to be increased in the care units of the elderly. You put a class mark on the care of the elderly. In other words, take care of the elderly, a privilege only for rich ones. You put on the social margin one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, namely the elderly, the helpless. Get the increased rate back! Also, with regard to the hundred doses we propose a regulation for those who have lost the right to a hundred doses over the previous period because of the capital controls, provided they, of course, pay the missed doses. They must be given the opportunity to pay their debts again. Small and medium-sized enterprises and the private sector are in red. I invite you to take note of the articles, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, as follows: In Article 42 you lead the educational staff councils to full party control. You are redeploying the teachers who run them up to now and form them with absolute party criteria. You did not even ask for the resignations of the Presidents and members of the FYROM who are your direct associates. The area of education, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is a place of dialogue and consultation and not 'decide and order'. You are proposing, in essence, an option without criteria from controlled regional managers only subject to the 15-year education service. The intention is obvious for full control of the boards by the party mechanism of SYRIZA. I would draw your attention to the fact that this matter has been referred to the European Parliament. You're enclosing training in party mechanisms. Minister, Mr Philly, we expect arrangements to resolve the issue of school gaps, not arrangements that sacrifice education on the party's altar. Today there are thousands of gaps in schools on your own responsibility. In Article 43 for the Ministry of Education, the changes should be the product of dialogue and composition with the workers at the Ministry of Education. To conclude, I want to say one thing. It will not become the Siloam swimmer to rinse your demagogy and populism. Mr. Ministers, put this right in your mind too. For these reasons, we as a Democratic Assent are voting against the bill in principle. We will, of course, support the provisions that are moving in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA MP George Psychogios asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons, from 6-11-2015 to 10-11-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u182	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Dimitris Kyriazides from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Minister, in your position yesterday you escaped from the reference to micro-political policy, as you would like to point out, exploiting the position of the Minister of Education, with which we have known years and I am particularly sympathetic, of his unfortunate reference to the genocide of a large part of Hellenism. You have, of course, concluded in your position that this is a patriocadia. Minister, a national issue cannot be overcome with a light heart, much more by the offspring of refugees or by the Members of refugee law, where you know that emotion is intense and not only, but also a catastrophe in terms of these kinds of statements. When even foreign parliaments have recognized this genocide of the three hundred and three thousand Pontians and all those parts of the Hellenism of Asia Minor, it is not possible to remain silent. We are still waiting today, therefore, with your presence here, Mr. Minister of Education, for you to be better informed than me that yesterday you were a headline in Turkey's wide-ranging newspaper SABAH. We have therefore given the handle to our neighbors, friends now, to report that we, too, do not recognise this genocide and have you on their side as the person who makes this very finding. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Prime Minister's visit to Turkey, we have waited and waited for a request to be made for Turkey's friend Turkey to apologise for this fact of genocide. I do not want to believe and accept that it is a move of good will to the Prime Minister of Turkey to refer to the Minister of Education. Nor, of course, will I refer to your reports on pilgrims, because we have recently seen too many visits from Mr Dobrovsky, Mr Moscovisi, today's foreign, American press releases, headlines for US debt-expansion intervention and all that. Right, who are you? However, we in the previous parliamentary term of the New Democracy as a government, unfortunately, have had a storm of reports, of this type, which many times as new MPs have been in a terriblely difficult position. Nor do I want us to believe that we, as a country alone in Europe, accepted - and we welcome it - the fifty thousand refugees. We will see, of course, how they are to be allocated and where they will be suppressed, but I believe that it has been done in exchange, because no other country in Europe has taken such a position. We have come to take this responsibility when others close borders. This cannot happen in our country, but we have to discuss the refugee issue another time, and I believe that we will be given the opportunity and the opportunity in the near future to have a debate so that the country has a specific position. We are now discussing the incorporation of a directive which, as you said, Mr Minister, should have been incorporated into our country two years ago. So too many directives have come, I would say, with a delay, as you have been late for nine months for this incorporation, but, as you have seen, the New Democracy agrees with this incorporation. It does not deny - what you have done - that I will be allowed to say, by occupation - by accepting this incorporation. We see, however, that this incorporation contains a number of other amendments which have nothing to do with the directive. And, of course, they were mentioned prerequisites, such as the taxation of these small beer-producing companies. Those small businesses that keep and produce in the country, Minister, if we close them too, what will happen? Because we see that this is your intention and we are judged by the result. Of course, it has been withdrawn, but this morning we heard the Government's representative that this amendment will be reintroduced in another way. So how do you ensure that you, who have had a particular sensitivity to small businesses, if you like, for the middle class? On the contrary, we do not see anything unless it is regarded as an equivalent or a parallel measure of those who were electionfully mentioned. I think that other things you have been telling us beforehand, and others you are applying today in a very tough manner, such as the abolition of excise duty on agricultural oil, which you are coming here to apply, and even in your position, you were talking about the non-implementation of horizontal measures. Isn't that a horizontal measure concerning the rural world? You have made the reference to farmers, particularly in the sense of the economic measure, with the superpowers of great cybism, etc. And you joined them all in one charge. We agree on a classification of farmers, but not on a level which you are trying to achieve. We are, of course, waiting for you to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the New Democracy colleagues concerning private education, the abolition of 23%, and also for the elderly care units to 13%, so that these third-age people, our people, can have their own home and affection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Kavadas has the floor for seven minutes. There are too many speakers, and I think that the flow with regard to time will allow a number of colleagues to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. First I will make a brief reference to the Minister of Education, Mr Friend, and I am pleased that he is here today - and to his statements on the non-existence of the Pontius Genocide. Let Mr Phillips realise that he, as Minister, should think about his words and keep his personal views on him. Two days now the Turkish press is celebrating. Mr. Friend's statements are headlines in Turkish newspapers and say that the Greek Minister of Education is brave. And the Minister insists! You're dangerous, gentlemen of the government! You are not only attempting inner levelling but you are leveling and altering our history! Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to place ourselves on a multi-brand plan with which the government is attempting to eliminate the worker, the small businessman and the producer. He's trying to level what's left standing, what's survived and what can leave a little hope for the recovery of the economy. This is a bill that in all areas brings in reversals and all it can promise is extra charges, extra taxes, no growth prospects and more recession. Of course, it also satisfys the Government's desire to place its party army on its side. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with Article 42 by which the government clearly and without rotation attempts to create a party 'a presenter' in education. Violent and unevaluated changes in primary and secondary service councils are being attempted. In fact, this article denounces the administrative qualifications of non-attached members and - in order not to be far away - the powers of regional directors that have recently been appointed under party criteria are strengthened by you. And I ask: In order to place your own children, are you about to appoint people to positions of responsibility without administrative experience? Unfortunately, the opaque procedures and the instruments of this kind dismantle the state of values and go back to the country in times when you are condemning and passionately fighting as opposition. Apart from the party state, the government has an extermination plan for anything that can reconstruct the Greek economy. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, with Article 51, puts a gravel in the primary sector and confirms, for the most part, the policy of falsehood and mockery which it used in the election campaign to protect the Greek citizens' vote. I would remind you very quickly of the promises to abolish the obligation to keep books and the ENPIA of farmers and to tax them up to 12 000 euros. Instead, its legislative work for farmers has so far included the excessive increase in insurance contributions, the taxation of all agricultural subsidies and aid, the extra taxation of agricultural income, the increase in VAT on farmers' supplies and everything that was voted on in the summer. And you come now, without taking account of all these burdens, and abolishing reduced oil taxation to farmers, farmers and fishermen. Gentlemen of the government, legislate with such reproach that you come two months later to discover gaps in the Memorandum of August. At the time when you are recruiting cleaners as secretaries in the courts, you are loading farmers, farmers and fishermen with a difficult increase in excise duty on fuel. Lead the country's minimum productive branches to a dead end. You have set a target for every producer and therefore every citizen who wishes to create. And the damage is not left here, because to survive the tax raid on production costs, and in this case, they will increase the price of the finished product. Instead of promoting legislative improvements, we invite you to finally realize the importance of the primary sector for the Greek economy, to review the agricultural tax policy you are following, to get the provision back and let the rural world fight for its family and the development of the country. The practice you are following, Mr. Tsipras, is no longer going. Your government is ruined and brought to a turbulence. And, unfortunately, the entire Greek people are ruined with you. Even today, a few hours before the multi-project in plenary, the sloppyness of your legislation has been successfully crowned! Fortunately, Article 52 was withdrawn, which was essentially an excellent plan for the destruction of small and medium-sized Greek breweries. To save only 3.5m euros, you tried to eliminate a small but strong industry. You tried, a left-wing government, to strangle healthy Greek businesses and to put obstacles to those who are trying, to those who insist on trying, to produce, to give jobs and to support the country, to produce Greek products and to support Greek production. It is not daily possible to talk about growth and seek investors from abroad and on the other hand to punish Greek investors. These actions require incentives to support the crisis, not lock-up policies. Fortunately, the logic of the ANLLs, with which you are co-governing, has been exaggerated and the article has been voted down. And one wonders: What is right and what is the left hand in this conflict? Time will eventually show which one of the two will break. It turns out, ladies and gentlemen, you've gone beyond any ideological barriers you might have had. Your legislative work confirms this every day. It is the work of the "liberal Left". The tax storm you impose cannot hide your election lies. The memorial is here with the troika! Greeks are still paying HISBIA! The social, left state reduces to 50% the beneficiaries of heating oil, delays family allowances, reduces wages and pensions, plans to abolish supplementary pensions and taxs the old homes 23% VAT! If that's possible! It exaggerates economic activity and does all it can to increase the unemployed and maintain the recession! You have, of course, Mr. Tsipras, found an alibi for this. We keep hearing you say that once the Greek people voted for us, they knew what measures they were going to take. And that is what you and your ministers say again. But you are judging by panic, gentlemen of the government. You vote for laws that the next day you cancel them, proclaiming new, improved laws. You pre-declar taxes and take them back, seeking, without effect, equivalent. You've been looking in vain for so long for VAT equivalent to education. And we're still waiting. You annull yourself, Mr. Tsipras. You don't have a plan. Your Government only reacts reflexively. And, unfortunately, I do not see an improvement or a way out of your policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th High School of Ano Liosia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days there has been a lot of talk of a very important issue, such as the Pontian Genocide. Because there is a delusional reason, which I think is exacerbated in Parliament over the last few days, I think it takes a very clear position to dissolve this paraxism. So there are fixed national positions on national issues, of course there are personal views too. We, as SYRIZA and government, recognise the Pontius genocide, as it was passed by Parliament in 1994. There is no request on this field. I, too, would ask the Civic Opposition, but also the parties in general, to stop. Such a matter is regrettable for them to take advantage of it and give an extreme nationalist reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u188	You've opened it. You have a delusional reason now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u189	Please, very much. I was clear. Any personal views do not specify fixed national positions. Ladies and gentlemen, this multi-brand plan comes to complete the first set of prerequisites, following the recapitalisation of the banks. So his vote is an urgent need in the context of the commitments we have made since the agreement of 12 July, so that the economy of our country can gradually stabilise and finally come out of the deadlock. Apart from that, this bill is also a package of measures and policies that covers many sectors, it comes to correct gaps and shortages of time and to put a new concept - if you like - in the energy field. Before I come to the analysis of a number of individual issues, I should first like to respond to a few objections from the standpoint of opposition. As regards the increase in the excise duty rate for diesel used by farmers from EUR 66 to EUR 200 per kilometre for the period from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016, in this case Article 51 of the bill makes a legal correction, supplementing the date of 30 September 2016 in the previous n. Date of birth: 4336 on 14 August 2015. So farmers are not in excess of what they have already voted on by that date. Secondly, there is one category that, in order to maintain the zero rate in the regulation of the hundred instalments in the event of a debt of up to EUR 5 000, the criterion must also be fulfilled, according to which the value of the property may not exceed EUR 150,000. We should point out at this point that what is actually happening is the protection of economically weaker microprocessors, without even a certain limit, but defined by the HPAI definition, which, if they fulfil cumulatively certain conditions, are not further burdened. Finally, the "discharge" of the ILO, contrary to what is written and in the media that the IMO is being dismantled by cases of fiscal, customs interest by transferring them to the General Secretariat of Revenues and by transferring five hundred organic positions from the IEA to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, proves, in fact, to strengthen its role in defining our economic policy. In addition to this, the main part of this bill is the introduction of an integrated energy policy, incorporating the European Union directive 2012, in order to establish a common energy efficiency promotion framework in all the Member States of the European Union in order to exploit the significant unexploited potential for energy savings. With this draft law, then, a national indicative energy efficiency target is set by 2020 through the preparation of a national energy efficiency action plan every three years by regions and municipalities to mobilise investments with the obligation to renovate 3% of the surface of the public buildings of central government with a useful surface over two hundred and fifty square meters. In addition, from 1 July 2017 a enforcement regime shall be established for energy distributors or retailers at competitive prices to achieve an energy savings target by 2020 and a system of energy auditors shall be established by independent certified auditors. On this point, Minister, I would like to point out the following: with regard to certification of the status of the energy auditor, if this provision is to remain, we should be aware that certain scientific categories of multipliers, such as landlords and topographers, are being wronged. In particular, for farmers, on the basis of a curriculum, their cognitive object is much more relevant to that of the energy inspector. Normally - and this view is shared by a number of SYRIZA colleagues - there should not be a certification procedure for engineers, as they can inspect, study and carry out projects from their cognitive point of view. I think that in the next period we will have to rethink this arrangement. This framework, therefore, combined with the imposition of penalties in cases of non-compliance for the parties to the enforcement regimes, large companies, energy distributors and energy retailers, even for the energy auditors, sets a strict framework for compliance with an energy policy adapted to modern European standards. Ladies and gentlemen, as a government, we have received a mandate renewed on 20 September to be able to guide Greek society safely on the way out of the crisis. Today's decisions, however difficult they may be, are in the context of this effort. Every day, therefore, this government's concern is to distribute the burdens with a social person as far as possible by protecting the weaker ones. Any micro-political practices that have been developed lately do not in any way help our titanium work, but are constantly imploding, especially in a situation where the national interest demands unanimity. Let us not forget, however, that people have known who is so far fighting for their fairness with a vision and concrete plan, but also who with a number of poor policies has brought him into this current bad situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Meikopoulou, for your time. Now Mr. Mavrosh has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Madam President. By coming to the House this morning I heard on the radio that the prerequisites bill will be passed. We see it in the newspapers too, we see it on the sites, so it's gone through the world. It is a bill, however, which has a few prerequisites, quite delayed and many questionable. He has some articles on education. I shall therefore begin with education, not with the articles contained in this bill, but with an event that took place the day before yesterday at the University of Athens. In the context of the evaluation of universities, external assessors, who are essentially Greek teachers who teach at universities abroad - those who actually want to repatriate - and when they visited the School of Law and the School of Natural Sciences, were attacked with fruit and vegetables by students who react to the demon of the evaluation, an evaluation that is necessary for the post-certification and then state funding based on n. 409. We as Potami have condemned these incidents from the very first moment that humiliate the image of the Greek university. I don't know if the Ministry of Education did the same. I haven't seen anything on his website until today. We believe that the universities - feud of organised minorities - must leave them permanently in the past, otherwise our universities will have neither present nor future. We are going to the bill, which has as its core the Energy Efficiency Directive 27/2012, which we will certainly be voting in favour of. It is welcome even if it is late and we think that energy is an extremely political issue that we should devote to Parliament much more political time. As my colleague at the Polytechnics University says, the cleanest and cheapest kilowatt now is the one that never burned, wanting to focus on this very thing, on energy saving. In Greece, there is a great potential for energy savings, because we are a relatively high energy-intensive country and energy-intensive investments, although they are beneficial and economically in terms of net present value and environmental value, have the brake of investment costs, i.e. the initial capital. One way out of this is by the efforts made in the bill to institutionalise energy services companies, the 'ESCO', as we say, which will facilitate energy investment. Some details, however, as has been mentioned by colleagues in committee, but also in plenary, need to be clarified. What we do not understand now in relation to the incorporation of this directive is why Article 21 should create a new public body, the Special Energy Efficiency Fund, since there is already a green fund as a whole. Let's get back to education. We are voting in favour of Article 41 on the introduction to LEI of distinguished learning Olympiads, the Olympics of Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology. It's a good measure and we can see that with SYRIZA now excellence ceases to be a relic. In order not to blame Mr Baltas, however, this article is opy-paste from his own multi-project, which has been an orphan and has not been able to come to Parliament. Indeed, it is so opy - paste that the Minister is referring to as Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs in paragraph 1.c and that this should be corrected in the final text, because now we also have Minister of Culture and Minister of Education, and there is no confusion. The intervention in Article 42 for the establishment of PYSPI and PYSPI, which we have mentioned many times, did not alienate us. It is clearly an attempt to give more degrees of freedom to the Rusphetian party system. Was it a prerequisite? Oh, no. It was just required by your plan to salvage the administration of education. Regional Directors - the known 11-2-11 case by SYRIZA and two of the ANELs - will arbitrarily decide on two of the five members. Previous law, n. 4283, there were at least some merital criteria, and now basically the only criterion is the 15-year pre-service in general education. But when you fail the selection criteria, that smells like a warp of ounces. Well, hope is coming, but only for them, for those days. We have therefore tabled a compromise amendment in order to make the choice of these two members more objective and incomprehensible. In particular, the two positions between the twenty directors with the largest administrative department per region should be filled. We hope it will be accepted to disprove us when we say that you are interested only in the partisanization of education, and so also in the order of the agreement on the collectiveisation of public administration, because it seems that we have been taken care of by strangers. As far as Article 43 on the Ministry's Agency is concerned, it is said that primary and secondary education teachers will be able to take the lead in the departments and addresses of the Ministry, while three days ago in the committee, we heard you, Mr Friend, saying that there are many seconded teachers outside classes and they should be back in schools to cover the many gaps. Is that what this bill is doing here or exactly the opposite by sharing management positions? Was that a prerequisite from the institutions? Oh, no. It was required by your ties with the client state. We believe that the Ministry of Education should stop being a party feud and should actually include meritably selected executives for the very important work that it has to do. In particular, we will contribute to the dialogue that we hope will soon begin with specific integrated proposals. Your customer perception - like previous parties, so as not to be unfair - seriously harms education and education is a very serious matter for us to leave it in the hands of trufflers. And if some people framed these tactics in the past, cut them off, don't go on. And since we are talking about prerequisites in the field of education, the only prerequisite for the agreement is that by the end of October the timetable for consultation on the interconnection of research and training has been announced. Unfortunately, however, we did not see anything about it. Article 52 on small brewers will eventually not come to plenary after disagreement with the government's partners and I see a small fracture on the right hand of the government here. But the question remains is why the whole OECD toolbox has been chosen to take this measure first. That should be explained at some point. Finally, in addition to the amendment that I have tabled before, we also tabled an amendment to the VAT Cyril 23% in private education, where we propose that it be abolished, but not in the air, but in the face of the responsibility to propose three specific equivalents, some of which seem to be being taken into account by the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds more, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in the legislative work has the watermelon and the knife. If she wants to pass the bills, just listening to her MPs. That's the easy one. The difficult thing will be to listen to opposition by making compromises and composition to pass the bills with the widest possible majority and consensus. So don't blame us for not putting back. If you've got your ears open on our proposals, we can put our backs on. If you're closed, you'll walk on your own. Unfortunately, from our experience, the last nine months are not at all sure you know the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr Theodoros Fortsakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Madam President. A lot has already been said, time is limited, so forgive me, I will confine myself to the great chapter contained in the draft law on education. It is chapter seven and has seven important articles on education. A general remark: First of all, all these provisions which have been included in this bill on education have nothing to do with the great prerequisites, nor are they linked in any way to the remaining chapters of the bill, and therefore, Mr Minister, it would be desirable that they could have come to a separate bill. It is lasting practice, since decades ago, that the Constitution is not respected, which provides that the object of the bill must be uniform, but when we have so many important provisions, it will be really better to have them in a text that is separate. I would stress that some of these provisions are not only provisions which have been envisaged at the request of the prerequisites, but also provisions that conflict with what we have agreed with the partners. Because there is a lot of talk lately about genocide and because it has a great impact on education, I, Minister, will not go into nationalist crowns or on the substance of the issue, i.e. whether it is really ethnic cleansing or genocide. I will only say two things: the first is that whether it is ethnic cleansing or genocide that is a matter of science and everyone - and you, of course - is entitled to have their views. However, the designation is important because otherwise the international community treats ethnic cleansing and otherwise genocide. And there does Greece lose an important advantage if we leave genocide and go to ethnic cleansing? I would also like to say something in terms of purely educational context: how will our students think when in their books we teach us that we have genocide, when the Greek Parliament has decided that it is genocide and when the Minister of Education comes and tells them that it is not genocide but ethnic cleansing? Children cannot understand these discrimination properly. It is good for the Ministry to take these issues into account, which are very important and, if you like, to avoid interfering with issues which have nothing to do with our education and thus create waves in the field of education. The current situation with what happened at the university the other day with the entry of assessors who were unable to enter and the conduct of students is, of course, a very regrettable phenomenon. I am not going to dwell on this sad little group of students, which creates the problems, but rather on the issue of university behavior. It is not the question if some students are violent or if some students react. This at the bottom of the script is both their right and their tolerance, of course not in this way. But what matters is that the university takes no measures to protect itself from such behaviour. And that's sad. I, too, would expect the university to be much more intense in the disapproval of the phenomenon and also the Ministry of Education to take a clear stand and to say that such phenomena are not tolerated in the university and to take those measures that need to be corrected. With regard to these specific arrangements, I will tell you good things and less pleasant things. Because it's not good to show up just bad things, but say good things. I will make two proposals to you if you want to think about them, so that we can also be constructive. First of all, for Article 39, which postpones the fulfilment of the obligation of each instructor to perform duties in a public programme of non-formal education to have certified education competence, is a deferral which, in my opinion, is negative. The certification of education competence has to do with evaluation and contribute significantly to the upgrading of the quality of the educational services, while the justification, currently presented for the inadequacy of the number of certified trainers, is not based on specific elements. I would like to ask you, Minister, to tell us how many missing people are, what the needs are, how many gaps need to be covered by uncertified ones. Also, tell us what specific actions we will take in September 2017 to be able to have a certification now. If you stick to the current regulation, without reviewing it on the basis of needs and gaps, at least provide for an absolute priority for the already certified trainers, who are many. You will allow me to remind you that this practice has also been adopted in the recent call for expressions of interest for mature trainers in public IEK, where we have the highest priority for certified trainers. I would also like to stress that this provision of extending non-certification is a provision which does not seem to be in agreement with what we have said with our partners. The regulation is very positive for admission to universities, and it has to be done. I would only ask you to take the Ministry seriously into account the need to have a more permanent arrangement so that it does not take every year to deal with what we are doing with those children, which have not been successful since the first time. This is a phenomenon that will naturally be repeated every year. We must therefore find a more permanent solution. On the issue of the registration of winners in Olympians, of course, it is very positive and good that you highlight the issues of excellence for once. For the service councils with the change of composition and the process of setting up them, we have a regulation that strengthens the lack of transparency and arbitraryness. It's a very negative arrangement. It is inconceivable that we do not demand that participants have administrative experience and have only educational experience. Educational experience is valuable. However, it is not sufficient mainly to carry out administrative tasks. We must therefore certainly also focus on administrative tasks. I am afraid, Minister, that this regulation comes under a wider policy, where we have an attempt to control primary and secondary public education. We have seen what has happened with the other regional training directors. We saw what happened with the school directors. And it will be good to be able to avoid partyisation and the politicisation of secondary education, without resorting to such mechanisms as the specific mechanism of this article. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute, Madam President. Primary and secondary education courses awarded in accordance with Article 43 shall, in any case, have experience of education rather than of administrative nature. And I would remind you, Minister, that there is also a court pending here, which should be left, brought to an end and then a regulation. I would also stress that there was no consultation here with regard to the administrative staff of the Ministry of Education. I conclude by referring to Article 44, which extends the term of office of school advisors. It's the second extension. It is regrettable that we have another extension. And it would be much better to say that there is no longer the concept of term of office, which has lost its meaning. I think we should come to the way in which school advisors are chosen and we should stop having extensions, which give rise to the suspicion that the government is looking for a control system and school advisors. Finally, compensation payments, of course, are positive. And we believe that a way should be found so that we never delay what has been done to the people who have worked. I would like to say a half word to ask you to support an amendment we have tabled, which Mr Kourakis had previously accepted. It is an amendment which enables graduates from foreign universities whose diplomas have been recognized by the IATP to teach in secondary education courses relating to tourism and tourism administration. Currently it is permitted to teach the graduates of the Greek schools. Since, however, the Greek universities have no specialty, we have only two-tier graduates in schools which are two and which, of course, provide staff, but it is unfair that a young person who has studied with complete studies and a recognized degree in universities should not be entitled to a young person who has only two years of study. Please see this positively so that the road can be opened for them too. There are a lot of people involved. It's a lot of things. And I do not think there will be any question of not employing those graduated from our own schools. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u194	In view of the fact that it has been announced since yesterday that a roll-call vote will take place, I think we will all be able to keep up all the time, because we will soon be able to start writing about the debate. Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin by condemning the statements made by the Minister of Education on the non-recognition of the Pontian Genocide. I would like to say - I think - that this is not related to the fact that it is not part of the matter examined, in the book of the history of the Third High School, the Pontius Genocide. But with all due respect to your face, I would like to stress that I understand that one can have personal views, but when one has such an important position as the Minister of Education's position, one realizes that such statements take another dimension and create different problems. I'm sure you'll pack up and come with a corrigendum. Today we are discussing the Prerequisites Legislation, but most of all it is the Community Energy Efficiency Directive. Unfortunately, the debate on the directive has gone to second degree. This is because of the new tax burdens that the government incorporates in this multiplier plan and the many amendments. However, it is also necessary to refer to the directive, which brings about significant social and economic results. One of these is energy savings up to 20% by 2020. Many will certainly wonder if now is the time to discuss energy efficiency and the environment. I say: there is no more appropriate moment than now, because incentives and energy saving policies have multiple and immediate benefits for the national economy, for jobs and, of course, for growth. Let me become more specific. Greece today is one of the most dependent energy countries in Europe. In particular, in 2014 our energy dependence was 62.1% compared with an average European at 53.2%. I quote the Minutes and the relevant document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Instead of importing energy, which costs us, we should first of all make good use of energy. Consider, for example, how many buildings exist in Greece, which because there is no good insulation or no energy saving measures are not followed, they are particularly energy-efficient for cooling in summer and heating in winter. It is clear that energy efficiency measures in public, but also in private buildings through incentives, would have a positive financial impact and a lasting effect on the future budgets, as energy costs would be markedly reduced. Therefore, energy efficiency measures not only have significant costs, but will help the public sector save a lot of money in the future from limiting energy needs. At the same time, the State will increase its revenue from taxes due to market mobility that deals with energy upgrades. It is not a cost cut, it is an infrastructure upgrade. It does not, that is, reduce energy because of need, but modernises infrastructure so that we need less energy. This is a forward policy. It is even worth noting that the buildings in Greece are up to three times more energy-efficient than the buildings of the countries of Northern Europe. I would also like to mention the relevant document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Apart from the budget, however, you understand and how many jobs will be created by strengthening this market and in the construction sector, which has been particularly affected by the economic crisis. But, Minister, it's not just the buildings. The incentives for more efficient industry and businesses mean lowering production costs, thus increasing the competitiveness of Greek enterprises, as resources will be saved for new investments and staff recruitment. But these are rather very advanced thoughts for you! You will, of course, tell me what motives and investments to talk about when you are taxing everyone and creating such a disturbance in households and businesses. And how to take you seriously when you've become tax issues to households and a joke. You said at first that as an equivalent, so that VAT does not go to the calf at 23%, you will tax private education. We reacted, reacted, and you tried unsuccessfully to "collect them". Then you tell us that you will seek equivalent revenue from traffic charges. Then you talk about an increase in insurance contributions, you talk about an extra tax on gambling, we hear about a special tax on KTEOs, we hear a lot more. Every day there's a new, new tax. Perhaps it is time to tax the irresponsible government statements! However, there you will find fertile ground and may also act as a stimulus for your ministers to stop creating so much insecurity in both households and businesses with all these irresponsible statements they make. But, as you do, I fear that at the end you will impose all the taxes you have said and the worst is that, despite all the overtaxation, you will not achieve the objectives you have set in the budget. Finally, Minister, do you not realize that the Greeks' tax capacity is over? You've kneeled the private sector. As if that is not enough, you are targeting the rural world as well. You are starting today with the gradual abolition of oil forecasts and you will continue in a few days with the gradual increase in farmers' tax rates from 13% to 26%. You are talking about comparative advantages in the primary sector and you are doing what is going through your hand so that they are lost and converted into an inconsistent professional choice. Finally, since you are trying to make the mutation from the radical left to socialism, I would like to remind you of a phrase by Thatcher: 'Socialism ends when the money of others is exhausted'. The money of others, whether they be Greek taxpayers or Europeans' money, has been exhausted. From now on, measures need to be taken to bring growth and incentives to individuals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Minister, development does not come with simple obedience to the institutions, as you do. It wants clear creativity and not creative ambiguity, it wants changes, vision, political initiatives and reforms, for which you seem weak to go forward. You have finished your ideological reserves and until you realize the reality you have already taken the country into your neck.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u196	Mr Anastasiades has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. The debate, ladies and gentlemen, of today's bill takes place under the weight and shadow of the statements made by the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, on the Genocide of the Greeks of the Sea. Obviously, I could not go into this because it does not allow it, Mr Minister, either my origin or my patriotic conscience. Because, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what you read from history and you are trying to analyse them, the speaker heard them in live narratives from his grandparents. We have victims in the family, and we have great sensitivity to this issue, the atrocity of the Turks. And I couldn't in their memory, nor in the memory of the hundreds of wrongdoing other our compatriots to silence today. I have a great deal of sensitivity and I will only refer to this issue, because I think that the issue of the bill has been properly analysed and analysed. It is not, Mr Skourletis, the expression of our reaction, but thousands of other compatriots of our Greeks, no populism, no patriotism, no patriocapillarism, nor a pure hypothesis, as you mentioned yesterday in your position. Ask the Pontius Members of your party. Ask Mr Triantafylides, if he is here, to ask Mr Michelovannakis who has made a statement, Mrs Stamatakis, who has been placed in the Committee on Dissemination. Ask Mr Lazarides your co-government with the ANELs. We, Minister and ladies and gentlemen, love our country, serve it, defend our fairness and we are not ashamed to say so. Leave these when you turn around to make fantastic enemies and stirred games. What is the position of your MPs? Is the position expressed by the Pontius Members populated, the ones I mentioned? They're in the set game, too? Are they patriots or are they not progressive, like you and how do you accept them then? The pan-Hellenic, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, has been raised by your statements. You didn't get it. But you will understand, shortly, when tens of thousands of Pontians and non-Greeks are gathered in Syntagma Square, to demonstrate their wrath and indignation against your statements, Minister. We'll be there, and we'll invite you. We will gladly accept that you are there. But, ladies and gentlemen, the government and SYRIZA themselves, even the Prime Minister himself, do not defend Mr Phile's statements. They stand up for their own positions. These are the positions of SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras. They were last year. That was their attitude to the resolution of the anti-racist. These positions are expressed in Mr Philly's statements. That's why he doesn't condemn them and the Prime Minister doesn't take a stand. Under the general outcry, he hides behind various geniuses about the freedom to express scientific views and other such lightness. You do not have the courage to say your opinion and your position clearly. You got scared under the general outcry and you talk about scientific opinions. Listen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we do not judge your views as a scientific scientist nor you as a scientist. That would be funny and a joke. We judge your views as politicians and you as Minister. But Mr. Tsipras won't avoid it, no matter how hard he's trying. He'll be forced to take a seat, and until he does, we won't leave him in a green clay. The issue of the Greek genocide of the Pontus by the Turks is historically proven and no question arises. We are not at a scientific conference here to discuss this again from the outset. Here we are in the House, where we are producing a policy. After the historical documentation of the genocide was obtained, it was accepted and passed by the Greek Parliament unanimously in 1994. So the issue has also been resolved politically. Since then, it has been a national policy and national strategy. He has never been questioned to this day by anyone. In fact, too many foreign parliaments, such as Armenia, Sweden, the Netherlands, Australia, the Netherlands and some ten states of the United States, have also been recognised. Can you tell me what the state would do if in a presence in a foreign parliament to accept genocide, our opponents opposed your statements, Minister? How can we pass and how can we defend our positions? Your statements, Minister, do a great deal of damage to the country's foreign policy. In your statements you became the best ally of the Turkish Kemalists. Removable the same positions as those. You became the best ambassador of the Grey Wolves. They celebrate the Turkish media. For example, I quote: "Ajans 34, Statement by the Minister of Friends that there was no genocide", "SABAH" newspaper "General declaration by Greek Minister", "NATIONAL TURK" "Greek Minister of Education: What the Turks did was not genocide", "TR.Sputnik" website "SYRIZA" does not recognize the Genocide of the Ponttus", the headline of the newspaper "MILLET" "Linsharing Operation of the Minister of Friends said there was no genocide", "HABERLERLER" "The Greek Minister of Friends said that there was no genocide in the Greeks of the Pont". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling these in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Savvas Anastasiades, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last act of a genocide is its refusal. And that's because those who work in this direction are like putting tombstones of oblivion on the bodies of the wronged, thus disguising both the protagonists and the perpetrators. And since this is also known as its negative ones, they are, in fact, genocide. In this sense, we can say that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government from the day before yesterday when your statements were made, Minister, is embraced with the genocide. It is truly regrettable and tragic that a government minister should be a public negator of the Greek genocide by the Turks. We ask, we demand that the Prime Minister take a public position. Or accept the position of Mr Phile - which is a clear position - or send him away by a Minister. Only then will it be atone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u198	However, it is obvious that you had nothing to say about the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u199	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u200	What process? Because he spoke out of subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u201	Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u202	Okay. I don't have the authority to interrupt him for that. Everyone understands, as do you, but the viewers that my colleague has not spoken about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u203	There is a regulation, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u204	That's a choice within his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u205	Madam President, I would like to ask you, Madam President, not to talk about the contents of the position of my colleague. I'm omissioning this delirium. However, I would like to ask the following question: can the procedure be on an issue which we are discussing and the positions taken to deal with a completely different subject? I think the Rules of Procedure say other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u206	Look, the Rules and the speeches are always about topicality. Here we see that news has been kept for many days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u207	But from Step by step, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u208	In any case, he spoke in time. So I appeal because so much has been said and so many communications have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u209	I imagine that two days in here most of us are talking more about this than about the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u210	So let us have a debate on the bill, for which the Greek people will judge us. All the rest, in any case, have been consumed so much that there is no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u211	Madam President, "damage pssy, cox"! That's what's happening!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u212	Okay, that's what you'll be able to say in your location.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u213	Madam President, some are not simply out of the question, but also out of place and time. Some! Mr Anastasiades had the honesty to say and to make it clear in advance that he would speak on a specific subject. This is where everyone is escaping the subject. Everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u214	Mr Colleague, let's leave the dialogue now. The point is that a directive and a bill on which Mr Anastasiades did not bother to say anything is being discussed here. The procedural questions have been raised and the matter is closed. I think everyone understands and especially the people who are watching. Mr Venizelos has asked for the floor. Mr. Venizelo, you'll have seven minutes. We have made many calls for time, because at 21.00 a.m. there will be a roll-call vote and the speakers are many. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I am following the debate, listening to the speeches by SYRIZA Members, to some extent, and also to the Independent Greeks who swear in the Memorandum and call for the prerequisites to be voted on in time to complete the first assessment. And I am dealing with this phenomenon with a conscientious, bitter smile, because it would really be a historic contribution by Mr Tsipras and his party to moving a large part of the electorate and Parliament to our strategy, the responsible strategy, which we said was the only one that was safe, the only one that could lead the country to its reconstruction at the least cost. The sacrifices are great, the pain is deep, it is intolerable to lose a significant part of your acquis, but unfortunately this was the easiest and most painless compared to total destruction. We were talking about it, but we were dealing with hard, deceptive, slandering answers that were aimed not only at our political choices, but at our moral status. Where are we a month and a half after the second elections in 2015? You have acceded, ladies and gentlemen, to the logic of the memorandum. Unfortunately, you did so in the worst way when we did not need and when we could have moved into another phase on much milder terms and with a return to fiscal sovereignty, i.e. with a return to markets. The point is: you did this. Changed the climate? Have you succeeded in assembling the creative forces of the place, forming a framework of national consensus and empowerment? While practically you submit to the troika, while stress is the vote or the abolition of laws passed by you, in order to fully implement the memorandum, resisting rhetoric in what you do with an impressive division of your political, collective personality and still maintain dangerous illusions, while the country has no strategy. This contradiction creates anxiety, nervousness. It reproduces the uncertainty that is the great enemy of the country. Of course this means that the government, and so the country, has no strategy. The government has also had a clear problem of coordination, and there has been a fatigue since the beginning of this effort. Fatigue is evident in all movements, in all initiatives, in all discussions. Fatigue is transformed into improvisation. There is a continuous improvisation for everything: for insurance, for taxation. I do not want to refer to common examples, such as the adventure of VAT in education and the in vain search of VAT equivalents in the nursing homes. And we're still at the beginning. Just forty-five days have passed. Much harder measures are being imposed. It opens the insurance, measures for farmers are still at the beginning. We will see how the progress of public revenue is progressing, what is going to be done with the 2016 budget, not with the small text of the preliminary draft budget. And in order to maintain this illusion and double rhetoric, the government and Mr Tsipras personally devise various things. The last invention is the link between the refugee and the relaxation of the memorandum. Mr Tsipras reopened yesterday the issue of VAT on the islands by linking it to the refugee issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, there is a humanitarian dimension which is unacceptable to any clearing. In refugee terms, there is a foreign policy dimension which is unacceptable to any discount. I say this because there are very serious issues not only of maritime borders, not only of sovereign rights, but also of administrative competences concerning research and rescue in the Aegean Sea, in the Eastern Mediterranean. A second trick is the misleading communication management of foreign operators' visits: President Olad, President Schultz, Commissioner Moscovici. What do they all come to do? Should they discuss relaxation? They come to put the finger on the type of sunshine. To see if Mr. Tsipras is indeed Tsipras 2, namely the doubling of illusion. They are pleased that 80% of the Greek Parliament and the electorate are now in favour of the European strategy and the memorandum. But what is their diocese? "First fulfil the obligations, complete the assessment and then see parametric changes in debt in the 2012 decisions." And while I have said so many times, that there is no alternative but to apply 2012 decisions to the debt and you have begun to lick where you were spitting - and that will lead to a positive result for the country, complementing the 2012 intervention - you do not ask, do not learn, do not plan. I do not want to go into details, but I know very well that the government is starting to discuss ideas from the European partners, which are intended only to reduce the amount of the new loan from the European Stability Mechanism, but not to facilitate the country's reconstruction and its progress in the future. You made the issue of banks a hundred and eighty degrees in the mushrooms. You blamed us for the recapitalisations, you have as a flag the Stateisation of banks and you are right now trying to protect private participation. We have always said that we are protecting the banks and not the bankers, the deposits and not the big shareholders. Our aim is liquidity in the economy. All of you disgusted after abomination, and now what did you do? You have done so in full and in the absence of the House, as I said in the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks. On the day following the vote by Parliament, the Ministerial Council decided on the real shape of the recapitalisation. However, Mr Drasakis said his amazing idea of a parallel banking system for non-systemic banks, which of course is not provided for in the law nor has any funding potential. It's the parallel universe, it's the quantum mechanic, which I had spoken about several times. Those aren't there. Land in this harsh world in which you are and on the basis of which you will be judged. The same applies to privatisations with regional airports. There are, of course, the ends of the memorandum, which are extremely problematic to threatening. There is a problem of rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. The independent authorities have been abolished and we will see when the country will regain its independence. An extremely strange and threatening climate in the field of justice has been established. The internal independence of judicial and public prosecutors shall be jeopardised. They are constantly projected by government officials and by forms which are government-friendly disciplinary proceedings of prosecutors practicing key roles in the system of criminal justice. Uncertainties are being created and intensified in the field of communication and information. Initiatives are being announced here concerning the content of the journalistic and political speech and criminal and civil responsibility. In this context, too, there is the strange phenomenon of double rhetoric. The government is nationalist ideological. Mr. Kammenos reigns and his perceptions. However, some, like Mr. Friend, maintain the faint memory of an internationalist left-hand word supposedly without evidence of ideological use of history and thus reach the worst ideological use of history. What was said about genocide could be discussed in the International Association of Genocide Scientists, the International Association of Genocide Scholars, which, as you know, adopted a decision in 2007 on the genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus and Anatolia. It is not just a place of the Greek Parliament, it has been a place of the global scientific community since 2007. But who says that? A political executive, a minister who comforts me, says in Greece we have a humanitarian crisis. He does not respect the UN definition of a humanitarian crisis, what a humanitarian crisis means in Syria, Yemen, Sudan. We have poverty, we have a crisis, we have a reduction in income, we have unemployment, but we do not have a humanitarian crisis in the sense that this term has in the international debate. The same is true of course in the field of universities. What happened at the University of Athens with the evaluators, identified by many colleagues, is part of the dual rhetoric of the government, which is subordinate and supposedly independent. It is now deeply submerged in the responsibility of reality and at the same time, free, liberating, can be radical in a number of issues! I mean, they work with each other, as Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Lafazani worked until the elections. And no one talks about the National Reconstruction Plan, which, as I have said several times from this Step, starts with the implementation of the memorandum, but goes beyond it. This is another parallel programme that makes the feeling that we may undermine the memorandum or escape obligations and in fact no negotiation is taking place, but there is complete submission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Venizelos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u217	There is no room for a strategic split. We need a single national line. Otherwise - and I shall end, Madam President - there will be linear development and conflict. Grexit won't come. They do not want us outside the euro, they do not want us to be bankrupt, destroyed, in a real humanitarian crisis, immigrants and us at the entrance of the other countries of the European Union, but we are in danger of being alone in a situation, as I have said, stagnant, namely that the national upsurge, take-off, not to get lost ground, not to sink, but also to squeeze from the double rhetoric and the double strategy, namely the absence of strategy and the deep guilt of Mr Tsipras and his Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u218	Thank you. Mr Skourletis has been asked for the floor. Mr. Skourletis, because you've spoken, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u219	Five minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u220	Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of things have been heard which I think need to be commented on. Mr Hatzidakis said a few hours ago about what is going on with the "House Settlement at home" programme, and he even blamed our own government for lack of planning for the phase from now on. No one disputes that this programme has a development dimension, that helps to create new jobs. But let's put things in place and tell the whole truth. We must say, therefore, that there are applications for new membership, there is a line of thirty-five thousand applications of this kind, but it was not known to the world by the previous government that the money had been finished, thus creating false expectations. However, the main thing that the previous governments have not done was: they have done nothing to redesign it from now on, to relaunch the programme so that there are no problems with hereticism, which we are committed to and which we have already launched so that we will soon be able to put into the new phase of the programme, so that we can resolve the issue of hereticism so that the corresponding money can be disbursed from the new ESDP. Apart from the redesign that we intend to make in order to overcome distortions, bureaucratic processes which have stifled an obstacle, another issue is raised. How long can the new money from the new ESRB reach? Does the issue of energy savings stop when this money is over or should it be a permanent, stable choice of the Greek state? If we respond to this, you will understand why there is a need for a separate fund. And, of course, it is not what you say that we are creating an additional agency to put an additional board of directors, but it is our own unscrupulous attitude, so that we can proceed with a follow-up to the issue of energy savings. Of course, in this House, in this debate most of the things said did not concern the content of this bill, at least as far as energy savings are concerned. There have been other, too many things that need to be commented on. Last night, for example, from the seats of the New Democracy, I heard Mr Brutsi resigning myself - take care - on the issue of 751. The man who brought the law, abolished the minimum wage administratively, the man who has made elastics in labour relations, the man who has put social dialogue on the plaster, the man who has opened roads in the direction of the working middle age, has forsaken whom? SYRIZA, on minimum wage issues! It seems you have now lost all contact with reality. Are there really no remorse for what you, your party, at the expense of the world of work? It seems, however, that the fact that you have no conscience and consciousness of your actions makes you no longer realize that not only now, based on the recent vote of the Greek people, but for a long time you will still be on the margin. Keep doing this Opposition. Continue not to understand the enormous responsibilities of your previous choices. It's the best you can do for the presence of today's government. From there on, however, I cannot comment on things that have been heard just now by Mr Venizelos. Mr. Venizelos spoke of the government, saying he suffers from a division. On the one hand, it says that the measures applied are not in its logic and, on the other hand, it is called upon to implement them. This division we accept. We will not compromise the idea that our programme can start and end in extreme austerity policies, in measures that we have had to take, in the measures that we consider necessary at this stage, but to leave them behind, so that we can move on to other areas. Mr Venizelos, what you said before is revealing, because it is a confession that you are claiming the patronage of the memorial policies, that you have been fully identified with them, and, of course, they bring you to a huge distance first of all with all this positive reflection that exists in European social democracy. That is why you cannot understand why Mr Holland is coming here and Mr Moscovisi, and they are making positive statements not only about the Greek debt but also about where Europe is going. You are really in European social democracy the retarded domestic part of it. Don't tell me we're knocking on her door. We don't care whether it's closed or the door open. We're talking from the ground of the left ideas. We speak on the basis of discreetness, our distinct historical course. But, of course, we recognise the need for majority social and political blocs to make major changes, and it is good that after decades there is an interesting concern in European social democracy. You seem to be unaware of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u222	And if you knock at the door, and if you please, no one will open you up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u223	I'm done. Speaking of the question of bank recapitalisation, have you realised that the question of bank recapitalisation was separated from the question of rating, which is very positive? Mr. Draghi realized that. At the moment you are safeguarding part of the fixed ground, which the Greek economy needs. From that point on, what seems to be promoted by this recapitalisation is the presence of the Greek State with voting rights, which is to a level that does not prevent foreign capital from coming. That's the way it is. That's the reality. We consider this difficult phase necessary, but in order to be able, as I have said before, to leave it behind and not, of course, to go to a parallel universe, but to create the conditions of dismantling from today's extreme austerity policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u224	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, sixty-two students and students and three teachers - attending them from the General School of Molan Laconia. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u225	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u226	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u227	Here, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u228	I would like the floor for two minutes as a parliamentary representative, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u229	Do you want to answer Mr. Skourletis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u230	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u231	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u232	Madam President, we have just heard a position which has not dealt with the issues raised by all the Members in these days in relation to the bill. Specific questions, in particular Articles, specific regulations. Instead, we have heard about the division of government and about what European social democracy is doing and about what the Left is doing and I want to say a few things. Mr Skourletis and Mr Ministers of Government, the government's division to remind us that it was the period before January when you said that you would unilaterally delete the debt on the basis of the German Conference. At the moment, all the government says and invoked is the November 2012 decision, which is the only one recorded. There is no other decision at this time on public debt. At the moment we are trying as a country to achieve this. You referred to social democracy with a negative time, forgetting that the forces of European social democracy, but also reformist, renewing the left, non-popular, saying things as they have to say at every time, which is not saying today what is going to happen, this democratic left, reformist and social democracy, has helped you very much at European level, that is, helping the country to remain in the euro area. In the summer, in August, a few months ago, we would have come out of the Eurozone if the efforts of the Greek Parliamentary Group were not then made to change Mr Holland's attitude. Mr. Holland has helped in this process and you know that very well. But you are talking about austerity and the continuation of austerity policies. Look, to make it clear, you're bringing measures to this bill that they don't have a precedent and we've explained them to you. For farmers, one has never imagined putting these specific measures in place, abolishing the refund of oilseeds, taxing aid beyond tax in any euro area country. One has never thought of abolishing, not being bound by the independent authorities of the country, as you tried it in the previous regulations. One never tried at the regional and regional authorities - the regional authorities told you the other day - to do what the government tried to do at the beginning. And you have only raised half of it in agreement and not in total. So don't find responsibilities elsewhere. Look in the mirror, see who is currently practicing extreme neoliberal austerity policies which, if they are exercised, will end the Greek economy and produce no one. Do not try to find acquaintances where they help you, to the European Social Democrats and to the forces that seek consent. We tabled specific amendments and asked for your consent. You must accept some of the amendments that were yours until a while ago. So far you have not accepted any amendment. Instead, how do you legislate? You have brought six ministerial amendments so far this morning to try and legislate in this way, not only in the form of urgency, but also in this process. It doesn't honor you, it doesn't honor the space on the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u233	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u234	You want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u235	Give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u236	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, you repeat the same enthusiasm in an issue that has been cleared up. You keep talking about the self-interest of self-government. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4042 is not our law. It is a law of the previous governments and expressly says that regional waste management plans must be aligned with the national plan. It doesn't say anywhere that regional plans are what every district minister wants. It expressly says it. So the only thing that we do is to define - because it was empty - what is the procedure under which this harmonisation takes place. Can we finally get this straight? Simple as that. Not only that, but you know very well that they must also be brought into line with the European directive. So who certifies this? So I have just asked you and I have challenged you: Bring another provision. If you do not want the services of the Ministries which determine harmonisation, please tell me which authority will determine the harmonisation so that this debate can be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u238	Madam President, I would just like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u239	There's no dialogue. Another opportunity I will give you the floor, so that the list of speakers can proceed a little, Mr Theocharopoulos. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u240	What are these things, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u241	What do you want, Mr. Loverde? What are you yelling at? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u242	Let my colleague answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u243	Please, open it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u244	We've made an appeal to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u245	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u246	Let go, let go, you'll find another chance. Others will talk. Sit down, calm down. Mr. Vlasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u247	The people gave you the role of government and gave us the role of counterpopulation. You have to understand, as we have seen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you don't sound. If you're kind, please, sit down so we can reach agreement. I'll give you the floor, but in a process. The speaker has come to Stepma. We should beg Mr. Vlassi if he has the kindness...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Vlassi, sit down for a second, please, to finish the previous procedure, because otherwise there is a real issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u251	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u252	I'm so sorry, Mr. Vlassi. Mr Theocharopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u253	I will not deal very much with this House at this point, it is simply crucial that it be heard. Minister, you're in government, we're in opposition. The Greek people have given us this role and given you this role. You ask the opposition to find a solution at any difficult time, because you cannot find it. You said again a moment ago: 'Get us the proposal.' Can you understand that the logic is to bring forward the proposals, answer you in here and make constructive proposals, amendments and changes to what you bring? That's the part. And as regards the issue with regard to the regions, I say to you: 'An additional phase of approval is being introduced by adding bureaucracy. Regional councils from sovereign bodies become mediation mechanisms, with the central authority having the last word in relation to the regions. This regulation comes as a matter of urgency and has not been requested by any elected body and the process of revision of the RIDs of the regions is under way.' They're not my words. It's Mrs. Durou's words. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u254	Thank you. Mr Theocharis from the River has also asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. I will not deal with this House much. I heard the Minister speak for evaluation. I think it takes a lot of nerve to talk about this government two days after we hunted the university ratings with apples and tomatoes... [[Applause from the wings of the river and the Democratic Alliance PASOK - DIMAR]] ...and when they have all this time, all these years he fought - and with any trade unions, SYRIZA controlled against any sense of evaluation. Irrespectively Savages!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u256	Good. We're moving on. Mr. Vlassi, you have the floor and we apologise for the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it really is unbelievable what we are living in. I've only been a new MP for eight months. I think I see things a little clearer, perhaps from my own colleagues who have more experience than I do. But where we say at some point that the rulers are beginning to understand what's happening to them, they're on the straight track, they're becoming Europeans, they're coming out of every minister, Mr. Skourletis, and he tells us what? It makes us remember older times, remember that they were remembrances, they have become memorials. We don't even know what confusion there is. I'm really sorry. The fact is that the Greek people trusted for the second time and only eight months from the first of their fates in SYRIZA - ANLE coexistence. For those acquaintances, even though not in depth, our political history and the psychology of voters, the result of the September elections was expected or certain. Rarely or never does the people have their confidence in a government within so few months. Always or almost always persuaded and lured by promises and demagogues. And it is true that in the elections in January and September, they dominated from the side of the two coalition parties - I repeat that they dominated - the promises and benefits to everyone. The second time, of course, claims that in September he did not sketch the memorial, abolishing HIS, increasing wages and pensions, the gifts of the witches, as he did when he was Opposition, as he was in the January elections, and that the people now knew that he was voting for the third memorandum. Surprisingly, all of you SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues who have brought in and voted for the left memorandum now, you are allegedly discovering the obligations that this entails. The obligations and burdens accumulated by the "first time left" government, the baroque tactics, the arrogant arrogance, but above all, the dangerous ignorance of European and global political reality and the repetitions of an ignorant and ideological prime minister. Elderly things that he himself has now repented of after landing. He's showing it. The heavy, however, has to be paid for by the Greek people. Of course the previous governments also made mistakes. Ours too. They have responsibilities, others larger, others smaller. Today, however, no one disputes that the previous government, after brutal efforts, of course, at the cost of civilian sacrifices, led the national ship to calm waters with certainty, safely, with predictable portrayal. However, the oppression of everything took place, the irresponsible paradox, the patriopathy sometimes, the taxis and taxis with duoges and jurades, to rejoin the ship, like the waters of the sapiovars and drown our unhappy fellow men in the Aegean Sea. How many poor people have been lost in the cold waters of the Mediterranean? How many hundreds of thousands have been found in our country, so that the Prime Minister will reach us as soon as he was able to sit and scorn for the thirty who managed to fly to Luxembourg. Even there populism, even that's where you're trying to settle everything. I hope you're proud of this picture. But our national poet again was verified: "My unhappiness, my good and loved one, always be easy to believe and always betray." We have just heard for the first time the parallel programmes, the equivalents, the philosophical measures, the easy words of the great, the fakes, the ones needed to get another, one more time the Greek people's vote. Cuvets for the arrest of tax evasion, for the taxation of large capital, for the fight against smuggling, for which the previous governments have done nothing. To the best of my knowledge, no politician has ever said so much about it, it has not been so inconsistently lied, it has not made such a change. In order not to use the term "associated" that you kept calling him, such as to be ashamed of his closest associates, to break up, those who were up to two months ago and who were not in this House, and that is good for the country. Some have even recently decided to rewrite the story, as our Minister has recently decided with personal convictions. I'm not going to analyze it. My colleague has done a great deal of analysis. And instead of someone coming out and agreeing to that, all you found to say is that it's out of the question. It is out of the question, in other words, not to be faithful to our history, what this House has voted very much a few years ago. And a government now calls us unreservedly, with a clear lack of strategy or even planning, with a confession to the political path it has set itself. What's next? It calls on us to vote and adopt its own solutions to the unresolved problems it has caused. You tell us to vote for the famous article 13, which deprives the municipalities of annual institutionalised resources of tens of millions of euros. It creates unfair competition that favours great business interests at the expense of the rest of the citizens - listen, listen to the Left with interests! - and obliges municipalities to cover the costs of their compensation services by a reduced number of obligors, resulting in an unjustified burden on households and businesses. You are asking us to vote on the doubling of the oil tax for farmers. You are creating new state bodies for energy policy. Your state of mind is unhealthy! And you expect us to vote for all this? As a new MEP, therefore - to finish - with one concern, the salvation of our country and the good of our people, otherwise I imagined and wanted the Prime Minister of the country, otherwise I expected your government, in a clear manner, in the interests of all Greeks as a guide, with a democratic sensitivity. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, this evening you will again be on your own to vote for the measures you have brought with your left memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr Constantine Vlassi, Member of the New Democracy. Kyriakos Mitsotakis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main object of the bill we are discussing today is the incorporation of the Community Energy Efficiency and Energy Sustainability Directive. This incorporation of national law into a bill of prerequisites is in itself giving rise to one question: why should we wait again at the last moment to incorporate a Community directive which does not have political costs, Mr President? It has a positive environmental mark and, under conditions, development dynamics. Once again, then, we have to do what is self-evident, under the great pressure of the possible judgment of the European Court of Justice. You know very well that the sign that is being applied above the country is important and it seems that you can only legislate nationally under such pressure, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, over here - and I have had the opportunity to observe - I can see that there is actually no national plan for how we can transform energy saving policies into real growth potential for the country. Other colleagues have referred to the very great success of the 'I save by house' programme, which enabled tens of thousands of households to upgrade their homes, make significant investments, investing in the construction sector at a difficult time. At least here, I imagine that we can agree, Mr Ministers, that the energy upgrading of homes and public buildings is a very great opportunity, not only to reduce the energy footprint of these buildings, but also to give a boost, an injection, a natural dynamic in a construction sector, which unfortunately has been hit very seriously in recent years. Of course, this law provides for a number of exterminational acts. It is dubious when all these regulatory acts will be adopted and it is also unknown that you will, in fact, be able to implement this strategy with a national plan and not only by a European obligation. I now come to a special article, and I have to say that I have been very concerned about it. It is Article 28, which refers to the coastal front of Drapetsonas and your decision to change the uses of land and building in a vast area of six hundred acres, an area that, in my view, is the last opportunity for a large-scale urban renewal on the coastal front of Piraeus. And I wonder what strategic planning you're making in this move. Is it just an eye closure in local communities, perhaps in your old comrades who were suffocating you to make this move? Mr. Ministers, it is good not to speak on the phone when there is a speaker at the Stepma. Mr. Minister! Looks like the Minister isn't listening. He is young, he seems, in the House and perhaps he treats the Members with some contempt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u260	Can you believe that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u261	I would like you to hear what I'm saying, especially when it comes to your object. Isn't that right? Please, a little respect! Don't you know that a hundred acres from this area belong to the PPA? By changing the uses of land to this extent, in substance, you reduce the price that the PPA can get as a result of its sale. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u262	That's why he was excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u263	So you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u264	It's in favor of the world of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u265	What's in favor of the world and what's not, we'll see, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u266	It's public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u267	I see you very upset. Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u268	If possible, we should not have a dialogue. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u269	You will have a chance later, Minister. What you do, once again, is without plan, without programming, without any funding tool, to come back and change the rules of the game to an open-up investment. It's your regular practice, you know. It's not the first time you've done it. You personally did it in Skouria. In this way and with these practices you are following, no foreign investment is going to come to Greece. And if the price is reduced - which will be reduced, in fact, because you exclude some of the extent to which recovery was envisaged - responsibility will be borne solely by this government. You have a responsibility for that. And in any case, how do you interfere with'so I want' on regulated property rights? There are other owners, you know, on this land. The National Bank, which is part of this area, has registered the value of this area in its balance sheet for 100 million euros. Where is the value today of this asset belonging to the National Bank, Minister? So, without any provision of compensation, do you come and intervene in property rights? You need to give some answers about these issues. Unfortunately, however, this is your policy as a whole. Without a plan, in about, to satisfy only the needs of local society, you come and fly a firework without having any prediction of how this region can be exploited. Tell me, Minister, wouldn't this affected area be more advantageous than an important, urban regeneration, with commercial uses, which could turn this area into a real development polo? Do you not know that for this area the prospect of creating a Formula 1 track? I say to you that this project may have been drawn, but have there been no other possibilities for attracting this area of major investors and for doing something that will really be beneficial to the local community? Would it not be much more beneficial than promising a green space, which in practice is never going to be, why can't you even have the money to do? This is your logic as a whole. Fireworks, no plan, about. You did the same in Skouria, you do the same in all major investment, so no investor comes in this country, and that is why the SYRIZA Government is completely unreliable when it talks about growth. You are unreliable because you do not understand the rules with which foreign and local investors invest in the country and you are unreliable, because you are not serious interlocutors for any investor who wants to invest in Greece today. I should like to close, Mr President, by saying that I was surprised that the Minister referred - indeed Mr Brutsi - to the issue of minimum wages. Really, Minister, did we promise to raise the minimum wage to EUR 751? Was it our commitment? Why do you feel such a great need to attack the New Democracy every time we simply remind you of the great lies you were elected with? Your commitment was 751, you did not implement it and you are accountable for the great lies you have made and the policies you cannot implement. So, a little more attention and a little modesty, Minister, on these issues it does not hurt. We know your constant tactics to go through the attack every time we simply remind you of what you were saying. But what you were saying will be accompanied, unfortunately, and will be constantly chasing you to demonstrate the unreliability of SYRIZA's second-time government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Amyra, wait a minute, please. Mr Famelos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u272	I'll use my second thoughts, but it'll only be for three minutes. I don't want any more, Mr. President. I think that Mr Mitsotakis' position gives us the opportunity, for a rare time, to have a debate in Parliament on the substance of politics. The model that has proposed to us in the area of urban renewal of Drapetsona is the model of the priority of the private space, of the private economy with uses that fuel the private economy. The counterweight to this debate is the model of urban planning and development based on the characteristics and priorities of the public space. I don't want to stay in the titles, but I want to stay a little bit. What happens when the private economy takes priority in planning? Mr Mitsotakis, without any party confrontation, the experience of the world economy says that when the private space operates without limits and without planning, what is happening most of the time is to consume natural resources without programming, but also to consume the rights of society without programming and to end up in cases such as the phenomenon of acid rain in Central Europe, when the heavy industry consumed natural resources and the environment at the expense of balance and ecosystem and ultimately of the economy. Finally the result, if the private space works without planning and without - if you want - control by society and regulation, is to absolve the conditions that the space itself needs to operate. In practice, the private economy most often consumes its own resources, because this model of capitalism is self-destructive. Can we find another balance so that we can both have economy and environment and work? Because the point in the case of refreshment is precisely that. Can we, under the control of the House? Let me remind you, for what you said, that it is Parliament's constitutional competence to regulate space and urban development. So you badly accused us of taking land from private areas, such as the National Bank or the LAFARGE, without compensation. It is an obligation for town-based legislation to make a contribution to land, to money and to return. That's what we're doing. A law that we have not voted on. We therefore fully guarantee the rights of both public and private space. Instead, we contribute to a local development model by ensuring the interests of the public, so also of the economy and society, how? By keeping the parameter of sustainability, of the balance of resources, so as not to affect either the right of today's generation to live or the next. This is the diversity in our own approach, namely that we do not prioritise the interests of the private, so the monopolistic or potential business interests, at the expense of society, but we do a reading which at the same time puts the interests of society, the environment and the economy in the same denominator. Only with such holistic approaches that have both the sustainable element and, therefore, the public interest can we respond to today's needs. Your own approach, possibly liberal against you, is a consumer, both in terms of the environment and in terms of labour and the economy. This has led to a dead end in Europe that is now introducing another approach to both the environment and the economy by this directive. We therefore call on you to see in this light our position not to appease the economy but to create a framework that, in the environment, balances between resources and human and natural resources, we can move on to the next day. Otherwise consumption, consumption and consumption are contrary to any concept of savings, recycling and sustainability. We therefore choose recycling, savings and sustainability. If you want consumption only on the private sphere, that is to say, only for some interests, which you may not support personally, but for the party in which you have been supporting them only in recent years, you will find us across the street. But if you want to find a common place, which I think we can find in a debate objectively in the interests of the state, I think we can continue the dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u273	Thank you. I would ask parliamentarians to make large savings in time to speak as many Members as possible. Before giving the floor to Mr Amyras, I would like to make a brief announcement to this House today. The State Budget and General Balance Sheet and Control of the State Budget Implementation shall deposit its Report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: (a) "Following the State's Financial Year 2013 Report" (b) 'Repeal of the Balance Sheet of the State of the financial year 2013' Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporating Directive 27/2012 on Energy Efficiency into national law is another monument of curiosity. The government permanently legislates on foot, with an unprecedented shallowness. And let's see how and why. First of all, while the issue is, in theory, energy efficiency - to tell you otherwise - the country's energy map, here has pensions, which had, by mistake, been written differently, been voted on differently. It also has issues of waste management, it has provisions for the Blind School, it has provisions for the discharge, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA in particular, of the Grand Music from the obligation to tax and insurance information. This is the second time that this government has given such a discharge to the Congregation of Music. You, SYRIZA MPs, didn't you say that this tactic, when the previous ones, the right ones, were a symbol of interacting? So, you've become intertwined too, and you haven't gotten it? It also has the provisions, of course, on taxation for small domestic, Greek, handmade brewery units, which, of course, disappear for the sake of two multinationals, one Danish and one Dutch, who hold 86% of the market. What is the matter, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Is that why you don't even have anything to say? Where's your revolution? I also want to tell you that you have brought Article 32 for the forests. In the committee on the first day of the debate we raised up, and we told you that this was a wrong provision, because this provision stated that the forests and areas which have been imprisoned or fell and which have been illegally dismantled will not be declared resurrected. It restricted the protection and proclamation of forest reservoirs of fired forests. So when I put this issue in committee, you almost eat me. Of course, after three hours, when the government understood its mistake, and Mr Skourletis undone this provision, you were all more 'poverts' and than the 'poverts' in this matter. In any case, I'm telling you this because there is a psychological uncertainty. And as your guru very well in economics until recently, Mr. Varoufakis would tell you, uncertainty means death of economic activity. But I will stay on the energy issues and tell you this: I do not know if you have become eminent in the European directive, but the European directive, which is incorporated today, into national law tomorrow, sets as a goal Europe-wide for energy savings of 20% by 2020 with investments of EUR 60 to 110 billion. Where's your target on us? What will be saving? To what percentage will it vary and by what investments will it come? You don't say it anywhere. What are we talking about? The report on the impact of the draft on page 260 states that the effects of the provisions of this bill have not been measured through an environmental impact study. What a contradiction! But the contradiction becomes even deeper and bigger, if we look at this wonderful building, the historic building, loaded with memories, an amazing architect. Learn the following: First, everyone knows, get out in the hallways and see. The califers burn in the Full House, the halls are closed and above the coffers open the windows. Imagine the paradox. This wonderful building that has been characterized as a monument is excluded - be careful - by the provisions of the n. 3661/2008 to improve energy efficiency. That is, within this shell we decide on energy efficiency and savings, and this building itself is excluded from the provisions and provisions of such a policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have sent two letters on the issue of the House building in which I made specific proposals for savings and to Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou, when she was President - World Environment Day on 6 June - and to Mr Voutsis and I table them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're going to a second topic, because I'm interested in taking a special interest in energy. We have also discussed them in committee. In twenty-five days from today, the UN World Climate Conference begins in Paris. I am proud to inform you that Greece is the only European country to which it has not submitted its national positions. What will the country's positions be on the climate issue? The aim is to maintain global warming by 2 degrees Celsius, not to exceed two degrees Celsius, and here Greece keeps a fish. Another sign of the curiosity with which the government is dealing with environmental issues. Perhaps the Minister will tell us, who met yesterday with the British Ambassador, Mr Kittmer, what the positions of the Greek Government are, because during this meeting, as we know, Mr Kittmer presented and quoted the positions of his own government, the English Government, with which he will come down to the World Climate Conference. Who are we going to find out from? Should we call Mr. Ambassador? We don't know him. Perhaps you will make the communication to us so that we can find out what the Greek position is through England. But is it possible for the British ambassador to learn the Greek positions first and not the Greek MPs? What will be the composition of the delegation? On what criteria will this composition become? When are you going to announce the names? I have also asked you a question on this specific issue under Protocol 857 and I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Amyras, presents for the Minutes the question referred for a preliminary ruling, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is another energy issue very important. Mr Famellos is not here to hear that he talked about sustainability, etc. Three wonderful Greek islands, Rhodes with the greatest sunshine in the Mediterranean, which has three hundred six hundred days a year sunshine, Santorini and Mykonos will be covered energy from now on how do you say? Yesterday, on Tuesday, 3 November, PPC received a loan of EUR 190 million from the European Investment Bank for the installation of new oil plants in these three islands I told you. Be careful now, the study of environmental conditions for the approval of these three new oil plants of PPC in Rhodes, Santorini and Mykonos says they will pollute seriously. It will contribute, says environmental study, every factory in gas emissions, there will be a waste of economic resources for oil import and, of course, it will strengthen our country's dependence and insecurity on fossil fuels. And it is to say: These Swedes have more than we Greeks, who will have been completely detached from fossil fuels by 2050? Don't we have sun? Don't we have waves? We don't have any air? Why do we always have to be retarded? Because the government has ideas or does not have a viable solution. What is the sustainable energy solution for our islands? It is the 100% shift in renewable energy sources, the interconnection of the islands between them for better network stabilisation, the development of smart networks, smart grinds, storage of energy in batteries and electric cars, buses and boats. These are the energy requirements that you brought us into this multi-branded project with carelessness, with a shallowness and the way it's not worth the country's real energy needs. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I do not see Mr Philly here, but I imagine that someone will pass this question on to him. So I would like to ask him this: for the ethnic cleansing or genocide of assessors at the University of Athens, will he not say a word? Gently? He's a Minister of Education, he's not a Minister of Historical Affairs, to talk to us about Genocide or no Pontius. To come and tell us here about the evaluators who took them with the tomatoes. Serious members, Greeks from abroad came for evaluation and did not let them enter the university, but they took them with the tomatoes. Nothing's gonna say about that? Mr. Friend? What Minister is he? Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I had to say to you and I would say, in particular, to their Members of Parliament, that you should be a little more sensitive to environmental issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u275	And you a little shorter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u276	Yeah, I'll be short. Do not see them this way in the glue because snakes are hidden in these devices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, too. He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u279	In the case of proceedings, what procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, the agreement is that there should also be a list of speakers on the articles, which was about 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u281	I'll answer you right away. We said two to three o'clock. Let me tell you what programming is, so the House knows. It has been requested for a very short time by the State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, to explain some of the amendments that have been mentioned. Two other speakers will speak, the process will be stopped and we are going straight to the debate on the articles with the rapporteurs and the special speakers. This is the procedure and, of course, the list of speakers will continue. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity has the floor. For a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very brief. This is a misunderstanding, but it is important to make it clear, because from what I have heard and also from the Minutes of Parliament, if that is cleared up, the PASOK and Democratic Asylum Group will vote for the bill that is being discussed. It has been said that I have said - and I have heard about a provision of the law in Article 1 which solves problems which have in a way been invaded by the services from which an error has now been corrected by the law. Let me make it clear: Mr Maniotis' reference to the committee concerned the following wording: that there should be - I shall read it precisely, so that I am not mistaken - a provision which says that "from 31-8-2015 fundamental rights are not affected and the right to retirement can be exercised at any time".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u283	From 18.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u284	All right, I'll say it, Mr. Theocharopoulos. It says what the original wording said, but that is not the problem. It's one of the Minutes of the debate when the matter came up. That is to say, the rights up to 31-8-15 are not affected and the right to retirement can be exercised at any time. I have responded to this that it makes no sense to introduce the amendment into a debate, because it does not really affect the fundamental rights, and indeed to a recent ministerial decision I have signed with Mr Katrugalos, this is clearly done and it is expressly and unequivocally expressed that no fundamental rights are affected. And, of course, no infringement of fundamental rights arises as well by the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u285	It's in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u286	It is introduced yesterday - a proposal for an amendment, signed by four Members of your parliamentary group who raise another point - that is to say that the pension will be calculated in the way it has always been done. I must tell you that this cannot exist in the law and it has never been in any social security law and, moreover, the Court of Strasbourg fully accepts that the question of how to pay pensions is a matter that is always adapted to the interests of social security and the protection of insurance rights. I must therefore make it clear, first of all, that the provisions of the Ministerial Decision also make it clear that fundamental rights are not affected. But you must be very careful to see that Mr von Wogau is here. 4336 that you voted and you are referring in a way that causes a problem, because it says that the basic pension is paid to those who leave from 1-1-2015 and then says that the proportional pension is paid from 1-9. From 30-8, he said, but the right thing would be to say 1-9. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 4337 to correct and this error has been made. You realise - and it is very simple - that if this provision is not corrected, it will in practice be the right of some to receive a pension only if they leave from 1-1 to 30-8 and only those who leave after 1 September will receive both parts of the pension. It's Mr.4336 who says that, and it needs to be cleared up. You can't fix it. It must be corrected by the House, that is. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute because the Minister referred to this issue and I would like to make it clear. I think that this is why the Rules of Procedure give the parliamentary representative the right to speak after a Minister has been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u289	Look, Minister, I would expect after what was said to the committees and it is recorded in the Minutes to come and say: 'Maybe I was wrong the first time I said that I was over-covering this amendment or wrong the second time, when I said I was not over-covering it'. On the other hand, we have heard you today support both cases, that you have said so well. Well, let's get things cleared up. The amendment we have tabled - and it is what we have tabled within the committee procedure - is all it says - and I have it in front of me - is that: 'Retire rights which have been established up to 18 August 2015 on the basis of the relevant provisions are not affected by the pension changes which are foreseen'. That is what the amendment says. You could have accepted it at the moment or the first time we set it and finished it. At the first moment, therefore, according to the Minutes, you said that we do not need this amendment, because we override it on the basis of the law. And then you sent an information note to the chairman of the committee and said that you did not overreact this amendment. Look, to make it clear, it is so simple that we do not change what an amendment says or what it does not say. We have said exactly the same in the committees, and we have tabled the same thing in the amendment, which I am referring to as self-sufficient. Look at the Minutes. You said the first time that you overcover it and at night you sent an information note and said you didn't overcover it. You can't be right twice. One of you is wrong. You accept the amendment so that we can move forward from a time when you do not want, as you say, to raise regulated insurance rights. And, of course, we should not open up a debate on Article 1 on the other issue, on the fact that you say inadvertently everything happened. And obviously all the mistakes have been made by mistake and this makes the relevant provisions inapplicable. These are written in the specific article and this shows the carelessness with which you are legislating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. We're on the list. Mr. Apostle Karastasis, representative of SYRIZA for seven minutes. AWAKE-AWAKE. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, starting with my reference to the articles of the bill from the end, I will simply say that I am in agreement with articles and provisions of the bill regulating current matters of competence of almost all the ministries. It would also be unreasonable to disagree with provisions such as Articles 40 and 41 on the introduction to higher education. I will make a reference to Article 33 and the extension of a year given to the certification of energy inspectors. The extension is welcome, because without it we will find ourselves without, or with, minimum energy inspectors with what this entails. I believe, however, that the entire certification process is unfair to scientists who are legally authorised to study, supervise and build buildings in accordance with the standards of modern regulations. But they are not authorized to inspect them and we are sending them for certification. What creates costs - time and economic - in many cases unconscious in the current economic context is also the main reason why, as is written in Article 33, participation in certification procedures is extremely limited. I believe that these engineers who have the right to draw up their respective surveillance and implementation studies can and should be excluded from the process. My other point concerns the use of photovoltaics for the production and sale of electricity by private individuals to PPC. I believe that the previous governments have handled the issue in a way which has heavily burdened the final consumer through the specific end of the reduction in emissions of pollutants, the well-known EMCDDA - what the entire Greek people pay for the ends of renewable energy. For specific sources of renewable energy - I will give an example - from 100KW to 500KW we are paying EUR 1 billion a year. And all this goes to the Greek people. I now come to the main torso, to the provisions of Part II of the bill. I have seen, Mr President, both in the press and in the documents of the House, that these provisions should be classified as prerequisites, which is of course true. Ladies and gentlemen, they are prerequisites, not only because they are part of our country's agreement with lenders, nor because for many years now, regardless of the economic crisis and the memoranda, it has been our obligation to introduce them - which we have not done, with the consequence that our country will face other sanctions from the European Union - but they are prerequisites for the functioning of the economy of each country, rich or poor, a member or not of the European Union, with or without a memorandum. The measures to save every form of energy today, when the world's energy resources are exhausted at a rapid rate, are more than ever necessary. In a country like our own with the base volume of buildings more than thirty to forty years old with the first and incomplete thermonuclear insulation regulation to apply from 1985 with the majority of the buildings being constructed without or with substantiated thermal insulation, with materials and technologies outdated can safely say that our buildings are energetic and therefore, their operation is unfavourable to the environment. Thus, even without international commitments, we should have created the conditions for the creation of incentives, but also with enforcement measures for the energy upgrading of buildings for many years. The previous governments in at least 20 years have handled the issue skinlessly, without a control mechanism, without a plan. Following the adoption of the relevant European Union directives, they dealt with it in the traditional way of Greek administration: they buried the garbage under the carpet. When the deadlines for adjusting the legislation expired and sanctions started, they were used as a pretext to increase the revenues of the public fund. They were unable to convince the Greek people that the upgrading of their homes was also in their economic interest in the medium term, but they put him across. So the people also integrated this effort into all the characters that had been imposed on them. We have reached the point, in the country with most of the year-on-year sunshine from across Europe, other than Cyprus and, of course, Malta, in the country with the enormous potential for the exploitation of wind power, in the country with the large stocks of natural gas from other fossil fuels and geothermality, once the New Republic - PASOK has been collated in ineffectively, as it has been shown, the oil consumption and movement tax on oil to burn all possible and unlikely fuel or non-fuel material at the expense of our health, the environment and at the expense of our pockets and yet also to have dead from the cold. Unwise, unscheduled, unscientific policies of the past few years, oriented to micropolitical purposes, consecrated the country in an energy medieval and significant economic haemorrhage. Where public buildings are built, targeting must be as fully as possible by exploiting locally different natural sources of energy: solar, wind, geothermal. In the case of private buildings, the protocol number of the accompanying energy certificate should immediately be entered in each mobile rental contract submitted to the TAXIS. The provision of incentives in addition to favourable lending, such as a reduction in the tax on rents in high energy real estate and a corresponding increase in the tax on energy-intensive properties, should also be considered. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'I'm saving at home' programme should be reworked. We're talking right away. Mr. Skourletis, I think he responded very well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The "Economie-economy" programme was in the 2007-2013 programme and took out this money, which they had. In 2014-2020 it had not started because there are heresy that previous governments had to do. It should have been planned for too long to start immediately. There have been too many people who want to join this programme, but anyone who knows it very well and who has probably been involved in this matter should be silent. Mr President, before I close and have asked the relevant ministers to see the following points, I would like to make a crucial point, as I see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u291	Soon, though, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u292	The fact is that energy is a major problem for all countries in the world. But our country has a sad privilege to face an even greater problem with regard to its buildings, which the rest of Europe, with the exceptions, does not tackle. It's that of the seismicity of the region. Our buildings are the same old for earthquakes, and the government must consider and implement an earthquake upgrade program for all buildings so that the other upgrades can be made on-site buildings and along with the economic benefit we must also have to ensure human life and property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Apostolos Karastasis, MP of SYRIZA. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis, has requested the floor to speak of an amendment to the administrations of hospitals. Here, Minister, you have the time-share ratio, if you want to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. I am talking about Amendment No 37 and specific number 23, which was signed by the ministers, concerning the composition of the administrative boards of hospitals. There has been a problem with hospitals dealing with their legitimate composition, because in several cases - more than ten or twelve throughout Greece - the commander or the deputy director of the hospital, who carry out their respective duties as president and vice-chairman of the board of directors, has left the quarter that is considered the ceiling in the code of composition of collective bodies. This has created a number of problems in many hospitals - for example, Larissa, which this morning has also been tabled and you have answered - which cannot solve fundamental and everyday problems of their operation, but also more generally and seriously, such as the implementation of NSRF programmes, etc. With this amendment - and this is why it is urgent - the issue of the legality of their composition and their ability to operate beyond the quarter that has elapsed since the left of the other governors and sub-commanders. It is composed of two articles. In practical terms, it says that in the event of the departure of the commander, the hospital may operate legally, where there is a deputy commander. The second paragraph says that if the Deputy Commander is gone and there is a commander, his function is considered legitimate. Decisions taken after the end of the quarter or of the commander or alternate commander and until the appointment of the new commander or alternate commander shall be deemed to have been adopted in the legal composition. And for a special class of hospitals, which are the so-called interconnected hospitals and which have an ICU. Usually, in the case where the President and the Vice-President have disappeared or left - i.e. the commander or one of the Deputy Governors, who played the role of Vice-President - if there is another deputy, he performs the duties, and if there is not - there was a gap in the law on the formation of this office - the director of the administrative financial service carries out them. Therefore, the administrative boards can legally function and with the appointment of the new members starting in the next few days, but there are currently members, and until the replacement of the governors is done on the basis of the procedure envisaged so far, the assessment of the governors and the open invitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, may I ask for clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u296	It is not foreseen by the procedure that you ask something but exceptionally yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u297	Minister, are you referring to the existing gaps or to what will be created from now on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u298	Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u299	I am referring first of all to the gaps which exist at the moment and which have created a very big problem. This morning we discussed a topical question by Mr Barriotta's Member about the hospital in Larissa. We have accumulated hundreds of decisions that the board of directors cannot take, because it does not have a legal composition and we enable it to function. From there on, because I understand the meaning of your question, as you can see, we are in a process in which there is an assessment of the governors and sub-institutions of hospitals made by the Heads of State or Government. This assessment will be taken into account by the Central Evaluation Committee, which is reconstituted - will be published in the next week - and that will proceed to decisions on which administrations remain or remain not. From there on, there will be an open invitation to deposit CVs to assess who will manage these posts. We are giving the possibility of proper operation of hospitals, particularly the ten or twelve which are currently having a very serious problem and which is causing a great social problem in the areas where they operate illegally, without a legal composition of a CP. We also solve in advance problems likely to arise from the replacement of their administrative boards. This is the government's expressed position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u300	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u301	There will be no further dialogue. Please, if you wish, you may ask in private. We have to move on, because we have left too far behind. The last speakers in the first place are Mr Nikolaos Thebes, a member of the SYRIZA and Mr Ursouzidis. Mr. Thebes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will dwell on two articles in the bill. Honestly, I would like to respond to a hypocrisy that goes far beyond the composition of the services councils. Until a month and a half ago, colleagues, I was a secondary school teacher in my county. I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you are very bad students in fact today in schools. In fact, it is a question of wondering, when it has not taken into account what is happening until almost today in public schools at PYPA and PYPE level respectively. I'll speak as a teacher in secondary education. These councils are five members. He is the first to be known, until a moment ago, director of management, the well-known, democratic, democratic and interviewing. In these interviews, worthwhile colleagues, people of prestige in society, people of dignity! So they were until the heads. Two appointed in the well-known way, by those elected in the well-known way of interviews. And two heretics, elected by colleagues whenever elections take place, once in two years. That was the composition. Do you want to go back there? All these years I haven't heard anyone complain about this thing. There have been rumor felonies at the level of these compositions. He's wronged people! The hypothetical has been appointed to his 50s with these policies. Okay, you've ruled all these years. That's what you did. That's what you know. But let us come to the point today. How were the new directors elected? Teachers voted. That's why you have nothing to say. And who did they get out of here? Most of them were themselves, because some things do not grow easily in a electorate. That's not bad. We're not afraid. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Don't rush! You know very little of the education. You don't know everything! MILTIADIS VARVITSIOTIS! Learn to respect! Respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u303	Don't interrupt, partner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u304	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u305	So I say quite simply that what you are trying to do today and, in practice, establishing what OLAF is asking for - which is another issue that we need to discuss, is not this - is that there are three elected representatives of the PES. So we are coming today and we are hearing a criticism from those who fully partyed PYSE, that we are going to bring the party state back to PYSE! All right, the teachers who listened to us - if they listened to us - would laugh because they have a very good idea of what's going on. I want to get into another matter now. It is also worth wondering - literally wondering - that it has not heard what to do. It has been heard that Article 31 should be withdrawn. In relation to the new ECHR and the revision of the ECHR, in the name of, of course, the role that the Ministry is coming to play in relation to the decisions of the regional councils: it was clarified by the Minister and yesterday. I'm still waiting to hear why he's retired. I know why they're asking. They are asking for it because they do not want the new ECHR and the revised ECHR to be implemented. It's simple. They don't want it. It's their political choice. That is the essence, ladies and gentlemen. But they don't dare say it. What do they say? That they disagree on the new ECHR, which literally follows the European directives on urban waste management? Let's go out and say it. They don't say it. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a great deal of nerve. We want to state clearly that those who hide behind the supposedly bankrupt selfishness of local government have other things in their minds. They have, if you want, mixed waste, pharaonic facilities and tertiary-world policies for combustion. We're telling them clearly that we won't do them a favor. Let us stand on another point: the government has a clear European policy on this issue, as expressed by the new ECHR. It works with the local government for FOODS that will serve flexible groups of municipalities. Our aim is to rationalise the management of solid waste, to protect the environment without excessive municipal fees, which our well-known national contractors once again see as predators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u306	Thank you Mr Nikolaos Thivaios, MP of SYRIZA. Mr George Ursouzidis, like SYRIZA MEP, has the floor for seven minutes or less if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, how many speakers are still there to complete the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u308	Mr Ursuzidis is the last speaker. Immediately afterwards we shall proceed to the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u309	And then they will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u310	Yes, of course, after the rapporteurs and the special speakers had made their way. Mr. Ursuzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are coming to implement something that we promised the Greek people that we will implement in order to start the three-year effort to recover, as far as possible, what has been lost in previous years. It is at least hypocritical that people who have been responsible for the country's governance over the last four decades should come here, in an unprecedented way, I would say, as if they had amnesia, that what is happening in the country is not the result of this parliamentary aberration of the previous decades and of the exercise of power by governments, but that history begins from May 2010 onwards. It's not like that. So today we are obliged to take some measures to rationalise public spending, the pension system, the tax system, in the context of a policy which, on the other hand, is very hard, but it is necessary. I will not go into pensions much, except for the absolutely necessary measures that need to be taken. The term early retirement should have been abolished. With the draft legislation under discussion, the age limits are set, although they are unpleasant, but they are the prerequisite for obtaining a system that is sustainable. As far as taxation is concerned, the draft law sets out conditions which rationalise some fines that were imposed completely unbrained, I would say, a way. That is, when a man could not make a turnover of 10,000 euros, a fine of that literally exterminating him and throwing him out of the system. Of course, there is provision for these measures, if the same misconduct is repeated, to be increased by geometric progress. They also referred to environmental issues. There has been talk of the activity in northern Halkidiki. It is worth wondering how people who operate within the academic community ignore what their colleagues at the University of Thessaloniki say. I'm referring to the unsub. Thirty-two positive science schools have expressed an opinion on this activity. Twenty-six of them were against this activity, and the six expressed an opinion without being in favour. The Technical Chamber of Central Macedonia was also against the approval of the environmental conditions of this project. And a facility was created in a completely unacceptable way, in that the previous governments created the preconditions for investors to destroy Kakavos, especially to take the ore, without anticipating Greece nor a burial from the extracted wealth of the region, but only to look forward to employment and insurance contributions. That's what's missing. We should have given them a present, too. This is the reality and no one can rejoice. It may be that the courts will judge - and they must judge - according to the administrative procedure prior to which it is suffering, but it is difficult to overturn it, since it has already been done. Finally, I would like to refer to the debt. It is at least excessive to sound here by the people of Anti-Population, who have been responsible for the country, to repeat, for too many years, that they have regulated the issue of debt settlement or haircut since 2012, when they themselves were trying to convince the Greek people that these sacrifices, to which they have been subjected in recent years, make debt sustainable. It's incomprehensible to hear this thing. It insults the intelligence of the Greek people. After all, intolerance to specific persons of Greek citizens is not at all accidental. It does not, therefore, concern the whole course of these parties from 1974 onwards, but specific persons and the hypocrisy they have shown towards the citizens. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the recent events in relation to Mr Philly's statements. I am one of the people who support the view that every citizen of this country has the right to express his opinion democratically free. But I am a Member of Parliament, I respect the decisions of this Parliament. In 1994, under the Government of Andreas Papandreou, a decision was taken which characterises the genocide of the massacre that took place between 1914 and 1920 in Ponttos and after four years, in 1998, a similar decision was made on 14 September as regards the refugees in Asia Minor. So these issues are broken and I think that what goes through here is not necessarily correct, but is subject to a fundamental scientific processing. So anyone who wants to overthrow these - and it is legitimate, if you like - must take them into account by the scientific community and not by chance, in a channel, to mention and open up issues for which the Greek people - and in particular a part of the Greek people - have a right to the memory of their unspeakable dead. This simple thing was brought to me by my grandparents and no feelings of hatred against any people. But the right of memory to the unscrupulous dead had to be set. The 19th of May is for the Pontius, 14th of September is for the refugees in Asia Minor. That doesn't change. That is a fact that has happened, as you will call it. From there on, everything that has to do with supersounding expressions that hung on the notion of this unreasonable feeling felt by the Greek people, does not substitute them for any one, but no one's statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. George Ursouzidis from SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Retirement regulations, incorporation into Greek Law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013, ‘For the adaptation of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions is concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that at the beginning of the draft law a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy, which will take place after the end of the debate on articles and amendments. We are now entering the debate on articles and amendments. The procedure is as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who will speak on both the articles and the amendments and then take the floor on any articles and amendments. The majority rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Sifakis, has the floor. Here, Mr. Sifakis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the articles of the proposed draft law, which contains as its main legislative work the incorporation into Greek legislation of the Energy Efficiency Directive 27 of 2012, contain regulations which introduce eight Ministries of the Government. These articles also contain prerequisites for action within the framework of the agreement adopted on 14 August, as much as Mr Screkas insists not to read the agreement which he voted on in order to find out. The incorporation of Directive 2012/27 itself is a requirement of the Agreement for its incorporation by the end of October 2015- page 1029 of the Agreement, paragraph 4.3, as well as of the arrangements for the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and the date of transition from one scheme to another for the excise duty on oil on farmers. The vote on these measures will contribute to the absolutely necessary, immediate completion of the first assessment, the disbursement of the subsistence of EUR 2 billion, the payment of late payment of public debts and ultimately the stabilisation of the economy, as it is necessary for it to be relaunched and the possibility of thinking further about the parallel programme that the Greek people have voted on. Furthermore, the draft law contains many useful arrangements to regulate open issues, to satisfy society's demands and to promote policies and actions in various areas. Unfortunately, yesterday both Mr Screkas and Mr Brutsis, as well as the overwhelming majority of members of the Officerial Representation - those who spoke - took their seats on board for everything that moves up, apart from the substance of this draft law that we are supposed to discuss - that we are talking about. Almost the same happened in the debate in the committees, even on the articles. Honestly, and what we didn't hear yesterday! If no one knew what the law was about, listening to the Members of the New Democracy in particular would think that we were here on a free subject, to talk about what everyone remembered. Even glaring crowns in favour of our Pontian brothers have been heard, when there is obviously no one in this Parliament who does not defend their right and their history, which is an integral and important part of the sufferings and the epics of the proud Greek people who have brought him here, especially in recent years and now are looking for every opportunity to make fun of him, without any results. But what did Mr. Screkas, Mr. Brutsis, the New Democracy for the Bill? They said that the incorporation of the directive is positive and talked about excise duty on agricultural oil. It is at least challenging and, at the same time, one wonders about the seriousness of the Officerial Opposition which at least the institutions plays an important role in democracies - here, unfortunately, does not play it, especially at this stage - to have voted precisely on this measure as regards the excise duty on oil on farmers two and a half months ago, on 14 August, and now to oppose themselves. The whole thing only moves in the context of cheap theatrics, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u314	Oh, no. We didn't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Screka, stand up to the occasion. Do not try in vain - the work you saw a month and a half ago - to mock the Greek people by shedding crocodile tears for those who have broken up so many years, for farmers. You have managed to reach the primary sector just 3% of gross national product and the children of farmers leave abroad not considering rural work as a job with which one can live, especially in the vast majority of the countryside that the rural lot is fifteen to forty acres. You contribute today by voting on the articles in the effort to energy efficiency and the necessary stabilisation of the country and leave the political efforts that no one can convince, especially when the verdict of the Greek people is a disgraceful one, and when you still have to resolve important issues of nature and representation of your party. Regarding Mr Maniotis' complaints: it was the New Democracy - PASOK Government that did not incorporate this directive until June 2014, as it was due. In September 2014, says Mr. Maniotis, what were you waiting for? Don't you remember what time it was? You, he says, why didn't you do it seven months? Mr Maniotis, firstly, you have prepared a simple translation of the directive without any specializing in almost anything. During the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL and despite the fact that it was the first time that we took over the country's governance and would justify some delay, we have worked on some important issues of the agreement, such as extending its application throughout the public sector, but also in the buildings of regions and municipalities, but mainly in the private sector, in the complex enforcement regime for energy distributors and retailers, and policy measures. Because we had to find a way of financing savings in the private sector, which can be done with the enforcement regimes and the establishment of energy companies and not without them, the way you have promoted the transposition of this directive. And you're talking about September 2014, Mr. Manatis? Did the conditions of the country from February, then, when you handed us over to the neck, looking forward to a few months of left-hand parentheses? Leave it, Mr Manatis, inappropriately counter-population and contribute to the adoption of this bill on matters relating at least to the transposition of the directive, which you have, of course, brought before you quite a long time ago. The new fund - for which you disagree - which will be set up is absolutely essential in order to have a clear and concrete orientation in achieving the very important work of energy savings. Energy efficiency is a special issue, it concerns the entire public sector, and it is necessary to monitor the promotion of the objective in the private sector as well. We want and we will achieve serious results and do not think of creating another structure - the way you were creating in the past - which, because of bureaucracy and customer relations, did not perform the role for which it was established. And I come to the main articles of the draft law. An indicative energy efficiency target shall be set in Article 4 to achieve a 20% savings in final energy consumption by 2020. Article 7 introduces an obligation in the public sector to renovate 3% annually on the surface of the private buildings of the public sector with a beneficial surface above 50 square metres. The obligation on regions and municipalities in the context of economic feasibility is also laid down to draw up action plans for the energy renovation of buildings. Article 8 states that the State will buy or rent energy class buildings at least C. In Article 9, as regards savings in the private sector, a regime is to be introduced for energy distributors and retailers in combination with policy measures, with a clear objective of saving 3332.7 thousand tonnes of oil equivalent by 2020. The draft law essentially encourages distributors and retailers to enter the energy services themselves by achieving a balance between the loss to be borne by the reduced consumption due to the savings, in which case the obligated parties may contribute to the specific energy efficiency fund with an amount equivalent to the investments required for the implementation of their obligations. Article 11 provides for the obligation for distributors to supply consumers with individual meters at competitive prices. An energy audit system shall be established by independent accredited auditors and maximum support shall be promoted for cogeneration and efficient heating and cooling for the development of efficient district heating, cooling and SYTHY infrastructures. Finally, a register of energy services companies is being established and the ESCO's are being promoted. Article 21 defines the establishment of this new Energy Efficiency Fund and determines where the resources of the new Fund are to come from. Article 24 regulates issues of green public procurement, by which the public sector supplies goods, services and services using green criteria when assessing tenders. Article 25 and within the next six months, a project promoted to deal with energy poverty will be carried out and actions relating to the improvement of energy efficiency and other social policy and pricing measures will be reflected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be done in two minutes. The proposed provision attempts to address the phenomenon of energy poverty by identifying energy sensitive social groups and proposing measures to relieve them. The CFP is defined as a national coordination centre for energy saving activities. Article 28 promotes the very important regulation concerning Keratini and Drapetsona and we do not understand, Mr Mitsotakis, these procedures will obviously be made lawfully. Do not focus on trying to serve specific interests. Article 31 states that the National Waste Management Plan will be approved by the Ministerial Council and the regional waste management plans will be approved by the Regional Councils in an opinion of course of the Secretary-General and by decision on their compliance with the national plan by the central government. You understand very well that this ensures the self-sufficiency of local government. In Article 32, after the Minister's amendments, measures are regulated towards protecting public land and the possibility of some who have obtained an intervention authorisation to carry out their works and after the forests have been destroyed by fire. Themes of various ministries, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Island Policy, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Environment, as well as financial arrangements are also regulated. We have said about the excise duty on farmers that nothing changes. It is adopted on 14 August. This is simply the date when the first scheme is completed and the second one starts. What don't you understand, Mr. Screka? You voted for it and even voted for the dates, that from 01-10-2016 we move from one inch to the other. Will you not vote now that the first ends on 30-09-2015? We don't understand. You plunder and please, because this thing people understand, don't keep doing it. Ladies and gentlemen, the nature of this bill is such that it would allow shocks from all the wings of this House. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the vast majority of articles of this article concern the integration of the Energy Efficiency Directive, which was generally accepted by all the wings, opposition has chosen the way to refuse to vote at first during the debate in committees. We call on you to support the maximum of concrete articles and actions that will also contribute to greater support for the great effort that is being made to produce practical results in incorporating the Energy Efficiency Directive, but also in arrangements that solve our fellow citizens' problems and promote the actions of several ministries. We call on you to contribute to the rapid return of the necessary stability, opening up the way to financing the country in the debate on the reduction of public debt and relaunching the economy with a view to productive reconstruction and development, geared to social needs, social protection and redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr Sifakis, SYRIZA rapporteur. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, also has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. It must have a great deal of nerve, Mr President, for the rapporteur for the Coupling to give up the New Democracy for populism and mockery. Mr. rapporteur, you really have a great deal of nerve to talk about populism when you were the ones talking about all these nice things, which you would have done in January 2015 would have just come to power, when you promised that there was a programme, that you had the way to abolish HISHA, to increase pensions, to help the weak, to abolish taxes. And when you came election in September 2015 again you promised a parallel programme that would carry taxes - the tax that would cancel, for example, the tax on education - which would provide solutions to the weak, who would bring growth. All of you promised. Why did you promise? Didn't you know you couldn't do it? Didn't you know that all you were saying, this parallel project, was a program, which could only be implemented in a parallel world, in a world that had nothing to do with what you were living for? Are you talking about populism and leaving New Democracy, when for two and a half years - from 2012 to 2014 - you have voted for nothing in this House, not even those laws that have reduced VAT in the catering, restaurants and restaurants where you came and increased? When we brought development projects, projects such as the gas pipeline from Azerbaijan to Greece and here with vertical connections to Northern Europe and Italy, you did not vote for this either. You have not even voted for the fourteen airports, which would have brought to the funds of the state of 1,2 billion. They should have come. They would work there and a thousand hundred people, invested and revenueed by the state, the insurance funds. And you're leaving New Democracy for demagogy and populism, you who voted nothing? You who have not even voted for an increase in the tax on pensioners and employees, when we received it from Mrs Katseli - who now have a president at the National Bank - at EUR 5,000 and almost doubled it in our own days and reached the tax on 9,500 euros? And are you talking about populism and demagogy when you received a country with recovery at 0.8% in 2014, when two years ago we received it with 7.5% recession? And today, just this morning, the autumn evaluations - estimates by the European Commission, the Commission are talking about a 1.4% recession in 2015, but also 1.3% in 2016. They also talk about increasing unemployment and 2016 and 2017. There will be growth in the country two years later, while you received it in recovery. And you received it with unemployment to be reduced by two percentage points in 2014, as you yourself admit Mr Tsakalotos, the Minister responsible, in the preliminary draft budget, which he submitted. You cannot speak, Mr rapporteur, about populism and demagogy, you cannot speak of mocking when you are the personification of mocking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u318	Did you vote for it for farmers, Mr. Screka?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u319	You have repeatedly laughed at the Greek people for ten months! But now is the time and you're paying. You are paid in the same currency as what you have said and which you promised. That is why you will vote for Article 51 on your own, which triples the cost of oil to farmers, farmers and fishermen. You will vote for it yourself. None of us will vote for it. Of course, I don't know if you're going to vote for it, and if it goes through, because I'm waiting to see what your partners in the government will do, because we've seen what happened with the micro-bubbles. We saw what happened. And because a lot has been heard, too much about the infamous OECD toolbox, supposedly inherited from us, come when the reality comes, and your Chief, the Prime Minister today, Mr. Tsipras disobeys you. It is the one who said in March 2015 that the previous OECD toolbox, toolkit 1, was an invention of the then Greek government and of Mr. Hatzidakis, while the new toolbox -12 March 2015, Mr. Tsipras visited in Paris, Mr. Kourias, the President of the OECD - the new content, said the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Tsipras, is that these are based on our own plan, that is, on your own plan, the SYRIZA Government and on the real needs of the country and society and will have a high economic and social benefit. What you have brought evil and evil into this harmonisation of the Community's directive to go through and which was voted against in the committee did not come to the plenary, but from what we hear and learn you are going to bring it back by means of an amendment. We warn you, Minister, don't bring it. He won't come through us. It will be voted against. Of course, the dignity of the ANELs will also be judged here. We expect to see whether you will bring something - if you want to deny it, if I am wrong - as far as the destruction of the small and medium-sized Greek breweries are concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u320	Okay, you want an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u321	And he didn't just say that, Mr. Famele, Mr. Tsipras. No one obliges us to do the reforms. We want to do them, they're ours. It's your plan. The toolbox number two, which we will see in the next few days coming - one, one, the articles from what I understand, because you do not dare bring it together as a bill - is 100% of your toolbox. It's your property. In fact, they are aimed at integrating social justice and they have a social mark. That's what you say about the new toolbox. We're waiting to see her. Mr. Kouria, however, had said other things when the alleged minister visited him as a new Minister of Development on November 28, 2014. In fact, Mr Kouria, who made joint statements with Mr Tsipras, said that Greece should be praised for the enormous reform effort in recent years. This was in November 2014, Mr. Kouria from the OECD. "Reforms to enhance competitiveness, reduce administrative burdens and improve transparency in public procurement already have a positive impact on the performance of the Greek economy, the country's international competitiveness and the restoration of growth". That's what Mr. Kouria, your friend with whom he's planning the toolbox number two, and we expect to see the social sign of it. So, for this bill, of course, we would agree with the harmonisation of the Community directive on energy issues, and of course you have brought it, without including any plan, no integrated planning, no plans for how this really will be implemented, carried out and acted. You only bring her to paperwork. You are not saying that this will be done, with what motives, with what policies. It's a vehicle this bill, to pass these prerequisites, but also to bring these amendments to the shame you bring. Let's see what you bring by the end of the day today. In Article 21 you set up a new fund. Why are you setting up a new public structure that will cost Greek taxpayers when the green fund exists? Perhaps there you could transfer - as you did with the cleaners you carried from the Treasury as secretaries to the courts - from the green fund worthwhile, overpaid staff to the other public services which could help and do this, rather than be charged with new administrative boards, with new presidents, with new workers already hard-working Greek citizens, who cannot pay any more taxes. And you see that from the deficit and the budgetary hole you have in the first nine months. Article 28 is the article of the deception of the citizens and the people of Keratini. You're cheating on the world with two paragraphs. Would you give a solution to the upgrading of that area? You're making fun of the world! You don't do anything. No plan, no programme, no study or impact assessment in the area there and in the existing units that work, but also in the world waiting to see its neighborhood improve. How are you gonna do that? With what plan, with what money, where will you get it? You're making fun of the world! Article 51 will not be voted on by us. You will vote for this article on your own, which concerns farmers, farmers and fishermen. Alone, 100%. I should like to conclude - and I am glad that the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, has entered - with his reference to the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, who has become a great reason. I'd like to say two things, Mr. Philly. I am very pleased that you are here and listen, because it is not good to hear things without you having the opportunity to answer. So two things happen. Or you've made a huge mistake, a huge bump, a gappa, which isn't bad to admit with courage. It's better, it's better, it's more courageous to admit that you made a mistake and ask for a big apology than to sit stubbornly and not to answer. Unless there's any other plan, which we want you to tell us. Is there any other dark plan? Is there anything else undercover? Are you trying, in view of the Prime Minister's visit to neighbouring Turkey, to offer good services and to promote a policy of resilience to the Turks, creating huge problems in Greece's negotiating and claiming positions? Do you understand what you've done? You have caused the outcry and anger not only of the Officerial Response but of all the Greek people and especially of the Greeks with origin from Pontto.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u322	Finish, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u323	Do you understand that? What is the purpose of your obsession? Why does Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country not come out to judge and reject yours so-called? Does he agree? Doesn't Mr. Tsipras have a say? Everything else he's talking about, he's a lunatic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u324	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, what I want to say to my fellow Members is this: change the way, change the door, tell the world the truth, because what you are doing in our country is very bad. You're hurting our country. You don't offer services. Change quickly, because I'm very afraid that the evil you're doing will be irreparable if you continue that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u326	Thank you to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Skreka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u327	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u328	What are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u329	Staff. I'd like Mr. Screkas to withdraw. He said earlier that it was the dignity of the Independent Greeks. I think that all three hundred are decent here. We may have any political controversy and differences, but the issue of dignity is not raised. I ask Mr Screka to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u331	I'm giving you the floor only because he asked you to withdraw, but don't pull it any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u332	I wanted to say'reliability', not'reliability'. I was mistaken to say 'Preciousness'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u333	Okay. The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Eleni Zarulia for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u334	I'll beg you, too, for a little tolerance in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u335	Sure. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much. Following the controversy between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, I am thinking of a very wise people's saying, "The donkey said the flying head." The courage, populism and mockery flow abundantly into both these political groups. Except that the New Democracy dares to touch and speak on issues relating to patriotism among Greeks and our national issues, it is challenging. It is the party that legalised the criminal Communist Party of Greece, the party that two years ago in Thessaloniki founded the Kemal Ataturk Museum. Mercy. We are now continuing to discuss the draft law on the transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive and other provisions, but in reality this is another multi-brand plan which includes the new prerequisites, namely new charges to the Greek people. Only in this way can we interpret the measures that are being imposed by the institutions. In Article 11 you refer to a thermometer installation in apartments with central heating and use of individual cash. Expenditure on the installation may be considered eligible in the context of the implementation of co-financed programmes or other policy measures, i.e. grants through Community programmes. Gentlemen, can you tell us what this obligation is about and of course what this installation costs? The apartments that have decided not to heat up, why pay for such an installation? To those who are still able to pay for heating, will this also involve payment of commons on the basis of this measure? All these smart systems how will they benefit the consumer? Will it also apply to Greece as in other countries, will consumers with higher charges at peak times have higher charges? I say this because these digital meters can count three, four different time zones of consumption. To what extent is the concept of a competitive price defined? Let us make it clear that the purpose of the installation is not a measurable one, but the question is not only the correct pricing of the energy services provided, but the possibility of repayment if there are delayed debts due to unemployment or loss of income. The need to install automatic systems requires some costs. Even for the smallest facilities money is needed. But it's a difficult thing to do in a period of austerity. You are supposed to be trying to launch an energy-management system that will help deal with energy poverty and how to create new jobs. However, the many "will" and hypothetical scenarios have tired the Greek people who do not see any benefit from anything. What the Greek citizen understands is that he must once again put his hand very deep in the pocket. Smart devices, smart networks and therefore smart cities would only be well if the energy were not treated as a commodity, but as a necessary and necessary social asset. The Minister for the Environment and Energy in a radio interview said that for the reduction of electricity tariffs the conditions were created for households and businesses to see their bills decreased in 2016. Let us stress at this point that these are 31% in electricity increases to cover the increases of PPC employees, which you have given the current Syrian trade unionists. The decision of the Energy Regulatory Authority to increase the specific emission reduction charge was taken on 20 December 2014, i.e. at the beginning of the election period. Elections took place on 25 January, and the people chose to break. Elections took place on 21 September. The result was the same. SYRIZA in power. But the break never came. And not just that, but you're tearing down the people. This is the left revolution! The government has in no way been worthy of its philosophical election commitments. Golden Dawn is the only political institution of the place that stands sincerely and unselfishly at the side of the Greek citizen. Our impoverished people are now unable to cope with even the basics, such as their access to electricity, which is a good thing for everyday life. Golden Dawn requires a drastic reduction in domestic tariffs, a regulation of PPC debts with realistic, social criteria. We continue with Article 30, 'Research and management rights of high temperatures'. It concerns the extension by five years of high-temperature research and geothermal management contracts, which entered into force on 31 December 2014. The question arises at what stage are research, studies and use of geothermal fields. It is important to use this renewable energy source that exists in abundance in our country, but we do not see any progress being made. Geothermality fields are proven throughout the territory and because of rather economic interests of multinational companies, the government is blocking its exploitation. I would like to make a point about hydrocarbons to the Minister for the Environment and Energy. You accused the previous government of cultivating false hopes and that the current leadership will not repeat it. I will repeat what Professor Geology Zelides said and what we adopt in our political positions. If the areas south of Crete, the findings in western Greece, Kastelorizo and Herodotus, which extend between Greece, Cyprus and Egypt, then the energy autonomy of Europe is covered for fifty years. Energy naked Europe will soon be facing a huge energy self-sufficiency problem. Europeans, seeing this risk approaching, draw up the directives so that they can be delayed as far as possible. Incorporating such a directive, aren't we talking here? The bill sets a national energy efficiency target by 2020, which will be determined by a ministerial decision. The energy union is being promoted by the European Union and you will invite us to ratify it if you of course do not do so by a ministerial decision. You intend to attach more to the imperialist tank of the United States of America by introducing liquefied gas. This will lead to the abolition of the TAP and the Bourgas pipeline - Alexandroupolis. Article 51 stipulates the abolition of agricultural oil, and you are the primary sector, the Greek agricultural sector, the basis for the development of the real economy. Golden Dawn requires the immediate abolition of this article. This draft law includes a large number of provisions of other ministries. The matters relating to the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity shall continue to be dealt with manually and on a case-by-case basis by introducing two articles, Article 37 and Article 38, in this draft law, which, as a whole, has nothing to do with the subject of that Ministry. Until the government decides to tackle the crucial issues of employment relations, unemployment and welfare, with the interest of the nation and the people in this ministry, it will continue to shake our society down on the crucial issues of labour relations, unemployment and welfare, which cannot be tackled with semi-meters. However, the regulation is in the right direction with Article 38 for the rightholders in the private sector of childcare leave. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'm gonna need one or two more minutes. Thank you. This arrangement will be a breath for families who have working parents. Of course, we risk getting to the point that this provision does not have to be applied because with the polluting unemployment there are many parents and there will be more - we are abstaining - who will not need this permission as they are both unemployed. But it's still a semimeter. At least that seems to have some application at the moment. Articles 39-45 of the Ministry of Education, which are included in this draft law, could be classified as procedural, regular and subsequently the previous Balta Act passed in May of this year. They were several administrative issues in particular of education and they are totally fragmentary, forming last-minute and semi-measures, since if they are not voted, there will be a serious problem of legitimising officials with terms ending on December 31, 2015 and staff running existing structures. In the same spirit, arrangements for the possibility of a second chance for graduates of older years to enter higher education are being initiated, since the system of introduction has changed since the current school year. As a general rule, this legislative introduction of seven articles on education in a draft law unrelated to the Ministry of Education as a whole is the most tangible proof of the curiosity with which education is dealt with by the Government and the total absence of any planning and long-term perspective. It would not be inappropriate to say that the period of governance by the current government majority is a unique monument of reorganisation, fragmentation and even wrong of the critical issues relating to education, as has been done repeatedly in the past. It should be pointed out that the regulation in Article 40 is simply a semimeter in trying to deal with the adverse effects and confusion caused by the continuous legislative changes to the system of introduction to higher education. The aim must be to maintain and maintain the system of introduction to higher education in a timely manner, which is obviously the current leadership of the Ministry of Education cannot be achieved due to the lack of and incompetence. Otherwise, we have another set of prerequisites for disbursing the dose. It's no different from the rest you've brought up to now. Follow closely the footsteps of the previous governments with exterminating memorial policies aimed at enslaving and depending Greece from foreign topics. We note that the Left is loyal to the transatlantic master, to the 'killers of the people' as you like to call them - I do not know if that is the case now that you have the power in your hands. Golden Dawn will not vote for new measures, new prerequisites that impair the Greek people and offer no hope of salvation. What the country needs is a free Greece, with no work toward loan sharks and great masters. And such a country cannot exist with a left-wing government except with a national leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u337	Thank you for the special investor of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Helen Zarulia. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and two teachers from the 49th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are going with Mr. Maniotis Ioannis, a special speaker of the Democratic Partnership for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing a government can do is get to be an unintentional Janus, to be a person who has two sides and has not come up with which of the two sides it wants, to be at the same time, or to be Dr. Jekyll or Mister Hyde. Minister, I would like to ask you directly: the Tsipra Memorandum, the memorandum you negotiated and signed, do you accept that? His fatherhood is yours? Your own? Yes or no? If you do not solve this deeply existential problem, then all you have to offer to the Greek people is only too much pain and too much sacrifice. So solve first of all your problems with yourself. Make it clear if you intend to respect the dignity of your signature. I am sorry to say, ladies and gentlemen, that all I hear is alternative measures, equivalents that are made to the present, forward - backwards, I said - loophole and in fact we are constantly stuck in the same pit of immorality and non-decision. We have described the current government as a nationalist government. I'll give you two three typical examples before I pass the bill: A few days ago we had a slap, a slap, at the expense of the government by the Supreme Court of the country, by the Council of State. The Council of State for the third time decided in full that investment in Skouria, investment in the Halkidiki mines, is entirely compatible with the strictest European and national standards and annulled the decision of the relevant Minister, which stopped the work of the two and a half thousand workers. After that decision, what did we hear from the government? A glimpse of the fact that "you know, the decision of the House has not been published". But, obviously, the plenary ruling will be published after a month and a half. But is it false that this is how the House decided? And if it's not false and it's true, does the government not think it has a duty to shake bulbs and send a clear message about simultaneously attracting private investment with strict application of all environmental rules? Otherwise, what else are we talking about? Incidentally the honourable Minister for Education is here. Minister, I think you have committed a slip. No one asked your scientific opinion of the Pontius genocide. I must say that they did not understand why you considered your duty to communicate us with a personal view, which is not in accordance with your institutional role, which must obey the unanimous resolution of the 1994 Greek Parliament on the genocide of the Pontius. Why did you do that, Minister? If you say that 'I got away with and it was wrong', it is acceptable. But I do not see any intention of correcting the sinners. And can I tell you something else? It also deeply disturbs me that I did not see a statement of your condemnation as a supervising Minister at the universities for misery breaking a group of students in the Kapodistrian University the day before yesterday and dismantling the meeting of the Kapodistrian University's leaders with the foreign evaluators who had come and were the best our country can have and were chased badly. And I did not see any statement of your own on the possibility of losing three thousand scholarships from the State Scholarship Foundation. Are we going to lose these three thousand scholarships, Minister? Why are we going to lose them, that is, if we lose 10 million euros from three thousand children in our country, excellent, who have to reward them, why have we given a 40 million advance on the LOCKHEED socks? To do the grace of Mr. Kammenos? That is what you have to answer. You can't escape. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to note that in recent years, in the Tsipras 2 government, in the SYRIZA - ANEL 2, we have visits by social democratic leaders. President Olad has now ceased to be "Olandreu". Of course, the French national policy has not changed its mind. Our people have changed their minds. You've changed your mind. And I was pleased to see also the social democrat President of the European Parliament, Martin Schultz, and also the Social Democrats Commissioner on finances, Mr Moscovisi. Did you find any other aid, Minister, to your group in the European Parliament? Because, following the intervention of the President of the PASOK Fofi Generations in the summer's Summit where he asked the European leaders, the social democrats to support the country, I only see it is a continuation for the social democrats to support Greece and you simply lick where you really spit on Mr Holland as "Olandreou". But, of course, as we have told you, you cannot go into social democracy either. I'm gonna hang up with something last. Yesterday, we had the unfortunate moment to hear the relevant Deputy Minister say that Greece is a country which will not make use of national hydrocarbon deposits because it wants us to have a rehabilitation of fossil fuels. I replied that neighbouring Italy in the tourists' developed Adriatic has fifty steps of gas and oil extraction. What right do a national policy change it and give us creditors again and you do not want to use national hydrocarbon deposits? Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the opposition is wrongly invoked that it does not table proposals that are equivalent. Thank God, the equivalents have been found, the ruling party has discovered them. But we are going to make an exception today. We will submit, as a Group of the Democratic Group in the PASOK Group, a fully documented proposal relating to the draft legislation under discussion, energy savings, which we propose to the Government to get 200 million revenues next year as equivalent in order not to apply VAT to private education. I'm tabling our proposal for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have a moment, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u339	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u340	Thank you. So what's this about? We call for a full exemption for energy savings in all buildings, in which up to 15 thousand euros will be invested by all Greek citizens, from any citizen. I'm telling the numbers for the Minutes of the Greek Parliament. Loss of revenue: The scenario is fifty thousand interventions. Fifty thousand interventions in the building for energy upgrading mean thirty - one thousand man-years of work. In other words, that means thirty-one thousand jobs for one year. Our proposal therefore provides for 95 million losses of revenue from tax exemptions for 50 000 upgrades. In addition, this means direct impact on value added by 251 million. In view of the indirect effects, too, we have the leverage of 1.2 billion. Therefore, since the loss of 95 million, we have 64 million direct receipts of VAT and income tax of those who will issue invoices, plus a sum of EUR 305 million from the indirect effects. In short, with our proposal, we propose that the Government should make this very simple: to enable fifty thousand poor Greek households to invest in their homes, save about a thousand euros from energy costs every year, to create thirty thousand new jobs and to the Greek State to incur some 180 million euros of VAT and revenue costs. We expect, Minister, the government's response to this proposal. And I'm ending up with a very brief report. We have asked that you do not table amendments in plenary. You have tabled a number of amendments. Excuse me, are you asking me to accept that the jeans of Cologne and the Northern Suburbs should not be paid for by the traffic charges until 21 March 2016 and, as the General Accounting Office says, we should lose public revenue? Do you expect the Greek Parliament to vote for this amendment? And are you asking us with another amendment, in cases of extremely dangerous cases of the ILO and the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, to have the responsibility to give it priority not to have it as the Director-General has now and to give it to the appointed political person the Secretary-General? So, under the table, the appointed Secretary-General will choose which of the ILO's dangerous assumptions will control and remove it - I repeat - this responsibility from the public administration? Do you expect the national Parliament to vote in favour of such provisions? Mr President, thank you for your understanding, I would like to remind you that we have tabled amendments on very specific issues of the Greek economy, the Greek society and we expect the government to respond positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u341	We thank Mr Maniotis Ioannis, a special speaker in the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u343	The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Panos Skoulatis, has asked for the floor. Minister, two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u344	And less.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u345	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u346	There is a very serious issue, Mr Maniotis. Did you refer to a decision by the CSU, which you know and which is not known by the President of the CSU, who made a statement and disproved the media friendly to you, which they were talking about on a alleged decision by the Skouria Council - do you know something? - when the president of the HR himself said the proceedings were not complete. And we're not talking about scaffolding, he talked about two more upcoming meetings on this particular issue. Stop undermining, then, or dictating your views to the HR. What you are doing is unacceptable. So please withdraw. Say that you have escaped, that you are badly informed, but do not continue to play with the institutions of justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Ioannis Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u350	As you can see, the government is imprisoned. Minister, have you disproved all the newspapers, the 'Kathemerini', the 'NEA', all those who wrote what they wrote and want to believe in you, when we all know that the previous decision of the Council of State was against the decision you made?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u351	The president of the S.H.E. has denied it, Mr. Maniatis. Do you keep going? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u352	Do you not feel the need to say "I was wrong"? Do you not feel at once the need to apologise to the two and a half thousand people who have them waiting inside the mines?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u353	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u354	It's heavy on the manoeuvre. This is where Mr Maniotis' views have not been taken and adopted. Oh, that's merciful. I don't understand that. You are irreparable and you are fully responsible for what you have said. It is unacceptable that what is happening in the Greek Parliament is undermined by the prestige of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u355	You are unacceptable. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u356	I mean, mercy! And you insist? Of course, I disprove, not me, the Council itself, the whole of the publications. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Georgios VARIVEOS is occupied by the Presidential Chair.]] Even those who had the elementary journalistic ethics did their self - criticism. Of course, that's rare. Journalist ethics in systemic media, which supports you all over the past few years, never meets it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u358	Mr President, the government continues to be divided into unscrupulous, out-of-parliamentary, inconceivable approaches to a matter that deepens the heart of the country's employment and the way we face investment and the creation of new jobs. Minister, I repeat, is there even a decision by the Council, the Plenary Assembly or the Chamber which has justified your decisions? Is there even one? And second question: Are you saying that they are hated organs of the establishment and investors, all the journalists in the judiciary who write that this is the decision? Answer that. The brats and sluts don't come in here! You will substantiate your opinion, otherwise you are simply overdoing the Greek Parliament and the Council of State. You must obey the decisions of the Supreme Court of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u359	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u360	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u361	It's unbelievable what it sounds right here, because I see that you keep writing your old shoes the procedures, the prestige of the HR. It's something very specific and you avoid answering. Do you disprove the president of the HR, who made a statement that it's not true about the articles? This is why answer and leave the literature 'out of investment'. And you are making a very big mistake, if you think you are serving the foreign investment case, if you are finally serving a perception of investors who do not respect the environment, do not respect the country, do not respect people's lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, if the Minister wants us to continue it, we'll take it to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u363	On the basis of what point of the Rules of Procedure are you speaking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u364	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u365	No, there's no staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Comrade, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u367	It's not Mr. Maniatou's shop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u368	Here, the irreparable Minister continues a tactic, which is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, please apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Famelle, you have not been given the floor by President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u371	It's not your parliament's store! That's what's in the past!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Famelle, sit down. Please. Put a perfect one, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u373	Answer the subject!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, because it has a history of this matter by the committee, we directly state that the Government must implement all the decisions of the Council of State directly. And the fact that decisions are not cleansed on the day they are taken does not make any excuse for the Minister not to correct his own mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u375	Your opinion has been recorded, Mr. Maniatis. Thank you. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u376	The point is, gentlemen, that if the Skouryas were a socialised company it would be operating with respect to the environment and would work for both the country and employment. But that's how it works. You are fighting for the interests of the private. Yesterday, the Minister spoke to us about modern capitalism that passes through energy savings and which we communists do not understand. Obviously, it is annoying for you that the programme of savings and promotion of RES is not to have sufficient and cheap energy for the people's family, but because the European Union of monopolies is dependent on the energy it imports, spending a billion a day and interested in urban governments, through such programmes, to reduce imports and dependency. This is why it starts from large public spaces, which only groups can do, because they also have know-how and funds, and this encourages the concentration and concentration of the industry. In addition, concentration and concentration are promoted in all sectors of the economy. It is Europe 2020's strategic objective. You promote him, too, by destroying small-scale mattresses, at high speed. That's your modern capitalism you're gracious about. Create debris in the middle layers to make the monopolies and groups gigantic. In your question "but ultimately, you of the JRC do not want workers, painters, builders and other specialities to work", we say clearly that as long as the pooled means of production are in the centers of business groups, urban governments and even such programs will use them not for popular prosperity, but for the profit of capitalists. After all, let one think: How do needs be hierarchy? Is anti-military protection prioritised and the projects necessary not to drown people and destroy micro-ownerships, so as not to flood even the fields? Oh, no. Moreover, such projects are not eligible for the European Union of monopolies because they do not gain. Do you promote earthquake protection in schools, hospitals, youth shelters and other mass spaces? Or are sewage projects still being promoted that are missing in large areas even in the Attica basin in the 21st century? Of course not. If you promoted them, however, it would be beneficial for people in the public spheres and a lot of unemployed people and various specialities to have work rather than unemployment. Your modern capitalism is eventually exhausted to energy efficiency, which is taken into account in the way the liberalised energy market works, so that accumulated capital is out. That's the truth, and you mind. And you have not answered why the bill excludes the maritime and air transport sector - strong capital! - from energy efficiency. This is a clear contradiction, which eventually reveals the real nature of the bill as a tool to stimulate the profitability of monopolies. The increase in profitability in shipping and air transport is at odds with the profitability of capital in these sectors, where they are invested in the form of fixed capital. That is why, at present, these areas are excluded. So you see the hierarchies and exceptions that are made and who are the beneficiaries? In addition, the rapporteur's report on Article 9, which refers to mandatory energy efficiency in final consumption, states - I will not change anything - in words: 'Procurement companies will be active in the saving industry to cover any losses arising from the reduction of sales'. However, the losses from drastic wage reductions and pensions do not have them in your programme, but you will continue with them. That's your class policy. In short, it photographs the article that energy groups will not lose, but will instead be active in the energy savings sector. This creates a new field of placement of overcompensated capital of the monopolist groups in the field of savings, which is the main objective of the draft law. Article 10 provides for energy audits of residential, crafts and businesses by certified scientific staff. Indeed, there is talk of their recommendations and implementation, photographing how it will develop in the future. These provisions open the way for the introduction of mandatory energy efficiency standards for homes, craft industries, for the mandatory implementation of recommendations, which will put new burdens on the people's families and self-employed. Energy efficiency measures will therefore be mandatory. But they may be drowned by the lack of flooding houses and shops. At the same time, categorisation of the energy auditors is an important part of the disconnection of a diploma-professional. In conclusion, we have to say that energy savings are of course good and that it is good to do so. The best thing, however, is for everyone to have their home and not be threatened by auctioning and confiscation to be homeless, because your policy with red loans is driving. That's the modern capitalism you're supporting. For Rule 31, because the Deputy Minister caused it - it's not here, but it's okay - I'll say the following. We believe that management is improved, of course, but planning is at the service of groups and is continuing and facilitating their profitability. That is why we are expressing ourselves with 'the present'. As far as Article 32 is concerned, we do not dispute that the definition has improved in relation to the original definition, but those areas of reafforestation that had been approved and have not yet been implemented continue to be excluded. The reafforestation operation and the three-year period shall be withdrawn. Unblocked investments that have been delayed. But that's dangerous and we told you the reasons. Powerful property rights of individuals to claim ownership by the State can appear. And we ask the following question: If the reafforestation excludes these land you want, preserves the forest character and ownership of the public? Write it clearly, because the way we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u377	Mrs Manolakou, call for equality in time management
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u378	I want as much time as the other rapporteurs who went to eleven and twelve minutes, Mr President-in-Office, have spoken. There are many articles and amendments. I'll shorten as long as I can. With regard to Article 37, the CEAT has passed a thousand waves, it is the only public education centre for the blind. It has chronic and acute problems, due to the tragic underfunding and subsidization at a time when the needs are growing by paying up to the ENPIA. There is still due to the great struggles of the KEAT workers' association, the parent and guardian association, the Unified Blind Trade Union movement, the Coordinating Committee of the Disabled and People's Committees in the region. However, in the change in the composition of the new management board you remove the specificity of the ophthalmologist, which needs his cognitive object, because there are many cases of low vision associated with many diseases. Its existence is therefore necessary. In Article 51 we are voting against the brutal attack on farms by abolishing the excise duty on oil and we welcome today's dynamic mobilisation of farmers in Karditsa, Chania, Agrinio, Heraklion, and continue in the next few days in other areas, with an escalation of their struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u379	Ms Manolakou, to make sure that we get to the Members' list, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u380	As far as the articles of the bill on shipping are concerned, we are voting on Article 55. We have also tabled many amendments to ensure that workers are paid their wages. In Article 56 we are voting on the third paragraph of the motion for a resolution on the recruitment of ports. It was an unsolved injustice. However, the number of organic positions must be increased, because there are great needs associated with the reception, care and movement of refugees. By the way, we also call on the people to create their own real people's river of humanity and solidarity and to isolate racism wherever and wherever it occurs. As far as the JRC's amendments to Article 28, namely the abolition of VAT on private education which makes up public deficits, are concerned, we call on you to vote in favour of it. We are correcting our vote in Article 40 and I say it on the occasion of the Minister of Education's presence here. After the change made by the Minister, he has PAAL students to test themselves with GEL students, although they have different curriculum programs. It's unequal. Finally, Mr President, there are too many governmental amendments. You need to give us at least five minutes to put in place and say which we reject and which we accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Lykoudis has the floor, wishing for better management of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u382	Four minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u383	It's not our fault, it's a lot of things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, precisely because other colleagues are next to speak on the articles, I will try to be very brief. For Rule 1, ladies and gentlemen, the government, after a seven-month parentheses of its own negotiation - it is not time now to start talking again about our own crises over this seven-month period - comes today and legislates against its own legislation all those which have been adopted inadvertently, except that it now withdraws them with the fist raised up, I would say. All this, in my opinion, is nothing but a sign of carelessness with which the government is dealing with issues of high priority, such as insurance, but also, in general, the way in which it is legislation. We had voted against this provision from the outset and requested a roll-call vote during the debate of the previous bill with prerequisites. The law of previous governments that harmonized the legislation passed in 2010 and accepted countless accusations from the then opposition seems now to be the government proposal on a path to resolution of the insurance system. As the government sees, we, ladies and gentlemen, do not vote for this article. In the case of the directive and Articles 2 to 36, I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my criticisms in committee. Since the beginning of the debate on this bill, we have noted the need to modernise energy infrastructure, which is more than obvious. No one disagrees with this either internally or in Europe. In conditions of economic crisis - and I have said it again, because I want to insist on it - I fear that it is easy to ignore green targets and green actions. If that happens, it will undoubtedly be a major, strategic mistake, which will cause a blow, not only to the natural environment, but also to the economy and social cohesion. Last June the European Commission decided to refer our country to the European Court of Justice, even proposing a daily fine of almost EUR 30,000 as a penalty for the non-incorporation of this directive which would shield the Greek legislative framework with all the necessary tools and for improving energy efficiency to the final consumer. We emphasise, under economic recession, the implementation of measures that quickly depreciate and create multiple jobs. A prerequisite, however, for this to happen, is the need to establish priorities for the country's development policy and, of course, to reject dubious quality investments, which lead to further consolidation of the economy and to an effective cancellation of the commitments for green growth. We, ladies and gentlemen, are voting for the directive and Articles 2 to 36. We say in all the articles 'yes'. I'm coming to Article 32. We shall be voting in favour of the article in the new form that it has taken after the immediate intervention that I think we did and it was useful - Mr Amyras made it - to try to save the forests. The original arrangement provided that the forests of the country would no longer be declared resurrected or destroyed, for example by illegal logging and imprisonment, but only those destroyed by fires will be declared resurrected. There was a direct change of walking and a corrective change by the Minister. It is a good thing, although the Scientific Committee of the Parliament had noted this at the outset. The new arrangement states that forests and land destroyed as a result of fire, deforestation or any other cause are declared compulsory reforestation. It is a good thing, and we are voting on Rule 32. I would like to say a few words about the two amendments that we are tabling. First of all, for the establishment of regional primary and secondary service councils, we propose that the draw should be made public. We are proposing transparency, ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not have phenomena before. It is obvious that our proposal, following the appointment of regional training directors at full party criteria, as was the case in the previous phase, has shown serious issues of credibility in the whole process. With the proposed amendment, PYSPE and PYSTE are, in our opinion, always done in a more objective way. At the same time, certain safeguards of administrative experience are ensured, since the selection by drawer is made by the presumptionually more experienced managers of education in each region. It is clear that this amending provision ensures a more deserved and unreserved staffing of the administrative bodies, such as the right one and as dictated by the agreement of August and No.4336 on demilitarisation, colonisation, I would say, the Greek administration, another Memorandum of Understanding, a reproach for our political system of client-occupation, the party-led and apparent objectives as a whole. Finally, I would like to refer to the amendment - an addition we have tabled, on the reintroduction of the VAT exemption to private education. We were the first to table an amendment, proposing equivalents for the replacement of 23% that has been holding the Greek society and the educational community for months. We have given alternatives which, in our opinion, always ensure cumulatively - it is a matter of dialogue, of course - the financial equivalent, since the government has been looking everywhere for its own equivalents for weeks, without any specific proposal. We hear and read from the media - we hope that we also have a formal placement during the process - that the equivalent was found and is gambling. There was this in our own proposals, one of the equivalents we have tabled. But I think that reality is harder than wishing, ladies and gentlemen. An amendment has now been tabled giving an extension to the date of payment of VAT by the operators concerned and at the same time abolishing what has been established fines. I don't know exactly what we're doing, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Are we even giving an extension for revenue recovery without giving a definitive solution to the matter? I don't know, does that help in total? Will the parents, private education bodies and, of course, the country's budgetary objectives continue to be pending? We have, however, chosen, proposed and tabled a specific amendment, and we think that its content is of particular interest and that it should be very careful. Thank you very much, that is what I wanted to put forward as views.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u387	For what, Mrs Manolakou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, we have just received a new government amendment concerning the Ministry of Shipping and extended for a year the shipowners' super-sea vessels. I would ask the Minister to explain to us, because this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u389	The Minister will clarify this to you, he's here. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. The bill is in the right direction and we support it. Good energy management, with a view to saving fuel and protecting the environment, is essential, firstly, for the sake of good, quality and environmental protection, and secondly, with our obligation towards the European Union to transpose the Community directive, where non-compliance means a penalty of EUR 30,000 per day. Also, the less dependent we have on fossil fuels the benefit of our country is. I would like to focus on a number of articles, which I think we need to stand back and are very positive, that is to say, what we say energy savings and proper energy management. Article 4 establishes a national indicative energy efficiency target for final energy consumption by 2020, with the prospect of savings of 20% of primary energy consumption. Article 5 sets out measures to monitor the objective, by drawing up a national energy efficiency action plan every three years, i.e. monitoring is permanent, diligent and also close. Article 6 refers to the preparation of a long-term strategy for the renovation and energy upgrading of buildings. Article 7 states that it is compulsory to upgrade public and municipal buildings. This is where I'd like to stand a little more. These two articles will have positive effects, beyond the environment and job creation. Many specialist craftsmen who are currently unemployed because of the crisis in the construction industry will be employed. In addition, industries, craft industries and shops that produce and move materials and products will relive, in short, the economy will begin to move. I read yesterday about Andalusia in Spain, where, with corresponding upgrading and renovation programmes, its economy has begun, and with rapid steps. Article 8 states that the Ministries and the independent authorities are to purchase high-efficiency products, services and buildings as long as this is in line with economic efficiency. The buildings, which buy or rent the public should be energy class C at least. Article 9: From 1-1-2017 an energy efficiency obligation shall be imposed on energy distributors and energy-saving companies to achieve an energy-saving target by 2020. By Ministerial Decision, the parties responsible and the other procedures will be defined. The target is for annual new savings and is equal to 1.5% of the annual energy sales by retailers of the year 2010, 2011 and 2012 to final consumers of all energy distributions. Article 10 refers to the introduction of energy audits by independent certified business auditors. It is also appropriate to exclude those applying an energy or environmental management system certified by an independent body provided that that management system includes an energy audit. Article 11: I want to stand here and ask that consumers should not be imposed on the supply of new cash. These measures facilitate energy distributors rather than consumers. This must therefore be an exit that will be burdened by distributors, whether this is about electricity consumption or water consumption or heating, because in some areas of our country we have remote heating. Therefore, providers must be charged with this exit. Article 15: The framework of measures for the development of efficient district heating and cooling infrastructures is important. Article 21: Establishment of an Energy Efficiency Fund to finance energy efficiency improvement measures, with a presidential decree. I'm coming to Article 25. The question of energy poverty is a major social issue in the country, when the economic crisis of the last five years deprives many of our fellow citizens even the necessary ones. This provision is intended to address the phenomenon with a view to alleviating and supporting weak social groups. Article 26: This provision defines the Renewable Energy Centre as a National Centre to support the implementation of national energy efficiency improvement policy. Article 27: Issues relating to licensees for the annual fee shall be settled. Article 28: Arrangements for the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas. With the modification of the town plan of the Municipality of Keratsini in 2014, it is allowed - and I transport it here as it stands - to "uses of a secondary sector of non-civil industry - a tertiary industry as well as public green and recreational areas". At the same time, a build-up coefficient of sixteen or 0,6 is proposed, calculated on the basis of all the original properties of the refreshment area. In contrast to these arrangements, this provision retains the provision of creation on this area of a wide range of areas, with a different nature, however, identified by the development of cultural, education, health, sport, green and recreational activities. The emphasis on the development of mild activities, which are directly linked to the operation of the urban fabric, is reinforced by the reduction of the predicted build-up factor to 0,15, i.e. the factor is far lowering. It is also proposed to rebuild the area in order to ensure the necessary public and public areas to be defined by the urban renewal study. The main objective of this provision is to improve the charged quality of life of the residents and to improve the quality of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas and more generally of western Piraeus, by ensuring high quality of the environment and infrastructure, thus strengthening recreational activities. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we support the bill and it is in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and two educational sessions from the 4th General School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Megammustakas from the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill raises issues of lack of plan and coherence in terms of the content and substance of these articles. However, the harmonisation of the European Energy Directive in Greek law is in the right direction, with regard to the objectives and objectives pursued, with regard to the energy upgrading of our country and it is quite clear that this is a good thing on our part. However, there are reservations as to whether the objectives are measurable in Greek reality, when even in developed European countries implementation and achievement of energy upgrading are difficult and without tangible results. Of course, since it concerns the implementation of European directives, we can only see it positively. In particular, on the articles of the bill, we as a Centro Association must make the following comments: Article 21, which we will of course vote against, concerns the establishment of a new fund, which burdens the state budget. It may, of course, create jobs, but it is important to choose the staff, which is not clear and subject to party evaluation. To what end? To achieve the objectives of harmonising the directive or reintroducing old friendly tactics of the parties to date? Do we want to settle down or just make it easy? The Green Development Fund has high reserves. And such a provision will only cause an increase in public spending - something that goes completely contrary to this European directive and the aims pursued. Article 31 tells us what? Under this Article, the region becomes hostage to the decisions of the Minister of Home Affairs, since the regional waste management plan degrades the institutional role of the region as it lacks fundamental competence. It is also clear that special waste management plans need to be addressed in a comprehensive way with the leading role that is appropriate in the region. This article we said we would vote against. The same will happen with Article 42. It is incomprehensible that the composition of the training councils should be changed before the end of their term of office. It's obvious he's hiding something back there. The party character of the device is evident. Ladies and gentlemen Ministers, you continue to create party armies, proving that you have not understood why you are there. The obsessions in these attitudes do not allow us to hope that it is ever possible to change the question. What are you gonna do? Will you follow the previous government's failed tactic, or will you do what the previous government has done? Article 43, now, which we are seeing negatively. On the basis of this article, you are asking to vote, and there has not even been consultation with the relevant bodies, so without a constructive dialogue and an exchange of arguments. We disagree because we do not think it is right, because of political will, that the highest officials, namely directors and heads, should be exempted from their duties and that the existing framework should be abolished. Rule 44, and we will probably vote against it. And at the end of Article 51. Of course, we are not going to vote on Article 51, which is a fine shot in the primary sector. A sector which should be the main lever of economic relaunching. We cannot vote for such articles. We cannot increase the price of oil from EUR 66 to EUR 200 per kilogram for 2016 and completely abolish agricultural oil. Yesterday I heard from the next speaker that I was speaking in general terms. I didn't do that. We must also take account of the other burdens that we put on farmers. That's one of the little ones. If you look, you will find that farmers who do not have the money we want to get them, especially those who at the moment had to sow the cereals, have no money, because you are delaying their subsidies. And what you say to them is'since December'. They can't freeze their fields and they can sow. There is no way we can vote on it. Also, this article seems to us to be a private contract, a lease agreement between the AU called the "Organisation for Horse Riders of Greece" and the private special purpose company S.A., when this should have been discussed at the meeting of the previous Plenary Session, which concerned exclusively this issue. That's what I had to testify about. I have nothing more to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the list of speakers, I am going to give the floor to the Minister, Mr Dritsa, to explain and document the amendment which, among other things, has also raised questions to Mrs Manolakou. I would also like to inform you that the Conference of Presidents has decided, given that the roll-call vote will take place at approximately 10.00 p.m. to 10.30 p.m., the time available to speakers to confine themselves to six minutes in order to speak as many Members as possible. Implementation of the Conference's decision will begin from the speech of the Minister, Mr Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. I also apologise to the speakers for getting a little wedge into the speech process, but after a few hours I leave for China. I will not be voting at night, so time is too pushy. Thank you, anyway. First of all, I have an answer left from yesterday's debate which, in my speech, I presented Articles 55 and 56, and specifically paragraph 1 of Article 56 of Article 56, where Mr Theocharopoulos, Mr Varvitsiotis, Mr Athanasios and Mr Kegeroglu asked me in the arrangement provided for and referred to by the Council for Coastal Communications, for the opinion of the CSCE to be in agreement, rather than simply an opinion. I insisted yesterday to reply, and I reply today. In my opinion, it must not be taken up, and I do not suggest it, because all of it. 2932 is structured in the functioning of the CSM, except for an extreme exception to not requiring assent. We will create conflicts and competition and we must not, unless we change the n as a whole. 2932. As long as we're forming insurance plates, then it can be done. I call on colleagues to see this in a broad spirit. There is no feasibility, nothing behind it is hidden. However, because it will not be operational at all - and let them think about it at all - I think that this provision must be voted on. The amendment under number 45 and number 31 has also been tabled by other Ministers, but in principle it is an amendment from the Ministry of Shipping. There is a long time now that there is a debate on ships sailing in the Greek seas and especially on the coastline, because Greek law defines thirty-five years and thirty-five years for their life, while Europe does not. On the contrary, each ship is assessed with very strict and binding criteria in relation to its airworthiness and safety. That is why a debate has taken place for a long time, which had led to the adoption of a presidential decree that clarifies all these conditions and prerequisites for airworthiness, which was adopted by the Council of State in May 2015. However, the Council of State has also requested approval by the relevant European Commission. The case lies in the competent European Commission. It will meet on 23 November and it is expected that the decision, which will regulate all these issues, will then legislate on the basis of the completeness of all this data. In the meantime and until this process has been completed, there are loose ends which have arisen by ships, which normally have to come out of their way and, above all, vessels of the Argosaronian Sea. I don't know if it fell to your understanding that last week, both in Poros and in Hydra and in Spetses and Porto Heli, mayors were mobilised, in order not to leave these ships, the flying dolphins from the area, considering that without them the islands can't be served. There has also been social mobilisation for all of this. This amendment, therefore, is, on ships that already have a safety certificate, to give an extension until the procedure I described before, in order to formulate the new data, has been completed. It gives an extension to ships which already have a safety certificate, but which, however, is considered to be over, after the time has expired and to reentry after the vote on this amendment, they will be reinspected and given a new safety certificate. This will apply - at most - until 31-10-2016, but in any case as soon as the procedure is completed and the Presidential Decree is adopted and the strict rules of inspection and the safety and airworthiness requirements of ships are established. I think that is something that we need to promote. There's a conversation I know about. There are many accusations, even many who speak of "plated coffins" etc. In fact, all scientific studies and approaches say that a ship, when it is truly well maintained and seriously monitored and guaranteed by the age of all aid, is more secure many times than new ships, because it is already in the sea. We have studied all these and all the parameters. The Greek coast fleet is getting smaller and smaller. She's a parameter, too. We must not let ships leave the coastlines without risking their safety and airworthiness at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, one minute for a question to the Minister, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, I would also like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u398	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u399	Yesterday, Minister, in the debate that took place on the evening on Article 55, former Article 56, which allows the Minister of Commerce to amend public service contracts, we asked you this: How will the service of the shipowners be prevented from serving the public interest? We don't question intentions. We told the House yesterday - I think you too - in our position that there should be no opaque. You told us that he'd consider your point of view. We have pointed out that in order to ensure that there is no suspicion of opacity and that the relevant Minister for Maritime Affairs is protected, there is to be agreement from the Coastal Lines Council. The 'concordance'. You replied to me, according to the Minutes: 'Your proposal for the assent I will study it and I will have made progress by tomorrow in the final decision. First of all, I have no special reservations. I just want to study it, just to see whether there is a gap on it.'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u400	The question, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u401	You said that you generally wanted the Coast Transport Council in most cases to give assent. The question is clear: Is there going to be an assent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u402	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for one minute, and then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u403	Mr. Minister, Mr. President. 4316/2014 that extended the rotten ships to profit from the shipowners, you had voted against him. You are coming today and you are giving a year of extension to these rotten ships, which should have been prepared to withdraw. And of course, the owners, the shipowners knew about it. I ask you: What controls have been carried out now and what assurances have you received to carry out exactly this extension, to which all maritime unions have opposed, in order to ensure human life?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u404	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, may I ask the Minister a question. As a Poriot I want to ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u406	Now you're gonna tell me I've wronged you, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u407	On the issue of Poros. That's what I wanted. Mr Minister, if you are kind enough to distribute the amendment, because I have not received any knowledge, and at the same time I would ask you to tell us when the last certificates of navigation are being extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u409	First of all, I say to Mr Theocharopoulos that, just after the investigation I promised yesterday, further reflection, I say today - and that is what I propose - that the opinion of the CSCE should exist, of course, but not put the binding assent together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u410	The same is true of Mr Pappa's television licenses. Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have asked your question. Listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u412	I told you yesterday that my view is that it is better to strengthen the opinion of the CSCE. But not alone. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 2932 in its entirety does not in all cases provide for an assent. If we do so in one case, there will be the following danger: the Coastal Transport Council is made up of representatives of self-government, representatives of entrepreneurs, from civil servants, from many aspects. Think, when there is a conflict of interest, lobbies are formed and decisions are made based on correlations made in the basis of choices service clusters, which may not be perfectly legitimate at all times. That is where no one takes responsibility. It is being charged by political representation, that is, by the elected minister - not myself, by every minister representing a elected elected government - with his hands tied up, and, in the other case, the Minister takes full political responsibility on the basis of a recommendation from a collective body. If it is not set up in a single framework with insurance restrictions on the risk I have described, we must not let that happen. That is why, on one occasion alone, because there is no possibility at present of ensuring these safeguards, we must not do so. That is why, while the debate is indeed well-founded and legitimate, I propose that we do not insist on it, and my suggestion is that it should not be in accordance with the opinion. The amendment we are talking about, and which Mrs Manolakou also mentioned, is Amendment No 45 and a special figure of 31. You'll be looking for her, you'll get her. Mrs Manolakou, we did not vote for these extensions so far, but that is not the case. These were merely extensions on the basis of the same scheme. Here we have set a new framework for guaranteeing all the guarantees and conditions provided for in the European Union, which has no age limit, but has strict controls and a safe prerequisite. We put this together. I described the pending procedure at its end. We are now in the front of not depriving of islands from a few ships that have completed this age, but otherwise they have been considered valuable so far. Now they have a security certificate with the old prerequisites. They will be re-checked with the old prerequisites for whether they can sail for one, two, three more months on the basis of the data, and then, once this process has been completed, they will be invited to pass through the Inspectorate, tank and get a certificate on the basis of more powerful guarantees and additional interventions, techniques and others, which will ensure these guarantees. It's a very different thing than what happened in the past. Finally, they have active certificates - annually it is those - which, however, precisely because they complete the thirty-five years, de facto they are cancelled. It may have been for more time, but, after completing the thirty-five years, they can't legally sail, they're canceled. That is why they will be re-elected as soon as this amendment is passed, since the House approves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u413	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good trip! Mr. Tsoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u414	Ladies and gentlemen, we have in front of us a new bill, which is, above all, the transposition of a European directive on energy efficiency, and within this draft law, provisions which are gradually involved - cowardly, so far - in keeping with the famous or infamous prerequisites. Taking advantage of the little time I have and speaking at the beginning of the bill, I would like, Ministers, to say, in all honesty, that in the first period of SYRIZA governance, that is, during the four-month period, I felt an unspeakable jealousy for SYRIZA, but goodwill, when I listened to your President and your executives saying "we do not spend like you, do not pass us like others, we do what we are saying and will observe." He had a great charm, a great beauty, if that was true. Great charm, unbelievable, even you who did it in good-for-nothing ears can't imagine how it sounded! I reclaim the privilege of considering myself as a good-for-nothing person. However, history unfortunately deprives SYRIZA and those who follow it of the privilege of this charm. SYRIZA didn't keep what he said. On the contrary, it has done exactly the opposite and, above all, it does not have the truth - and I dare say - and the honesty to admit that not only does it differ from the past because it respects what it says, but it expresses the past in the most unpleasant way. Retrieving the past, I arrived on 19 June 1983. I read from the news of those days: "Sense and reactions caused the contents of the speech of the Minister of Government at a gathering of his supporters in Patras" - we are talking about the late Mino Koutsogiorgas - "and in particular his references to the face of the President of the Republic and to the policy pursued by his resignation on his Prime Minister. In particular, the Minister of Presidency spoke against the Opposition and the New Democracy about forces of darkness, maintenance, backwardness that they had imposed on the Greek people thirty years of slavery. He made allegations of para-state and of political modesty, of colonial status, of policy of dependence and slavery, of indecisiveness that began with the signing of endless series of secret protocols. They are donors to the Greek people," ended Agamemnon Koutsogiorgas. At another point in his speech he transferred responsibility for not carrying out the election announcement of PASOK, that as a government he would get Greece out of the EEC and NATO, to the President of the Republic saying: "Many accuse us of leaving the EEC. But we were bound by international agreements. The right to leave doesn't belong to us. It belongs to the President of the Republic who has the exclusive right to declare a referendum to ask the people. It is not our fault that we are not holding a referendum. It's the President of the Republic. We, despite the difficulties, are struggling to establish a relationship for the interests of our people." If this regression in the past, to someone who maintains good faith, does not remind you of your present unpopular conduct in relation to your announcements, let me tell you that every sense of good hearing of things has been lost. You are not expressing anything at all new. The same things you were saying five, six, seven months ago, the same things you say today, the same thing was said by PASOK - the first time left of the 1980s - which, in order to justify its turn in relation to its contact with reality, would put the responsibility to the institutional bonding of the country by the predecessors, who were unworthy and donors and to the fact that the President of the Republic would not let them respect their commitments, but will fight it within the existing regime to achieve something better. I do not see the slightest difference, except that this has been discussed and re-approved by the Greek people. I mean, speaking politically within this gloomy period of time I have, that this reality that has swept you off is not verbally dealt with. It is a matter of time when the Greek people will overcome today's frustration and the feeling that nothing changes and begin to claim more. PASOK, in the 1980s, has been able to commit the Greek people for more years than you will be able to do, because the benefits they made were such that they strengthened the client state so much that they made it powerful. You can't make benefits. You can't even improve the life of the Greek people, who, when voting on you, said to himself and to his circle "I vote for SYRIZA because I have nothing to lose". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is certain that it fits with your ideology, the ideology of the Left of Envy, the effort to equate downwards. If we look at what you do and what you fail to do - and I finish - it is the effort to equate the people down. That's what you know, it doesn't last long. This is directed at instincts, not at moods or much more on visions. It will not last long, and the people who believed you or who did not notice or care what you were saying, because they wanted to punish us, very soon, they will also take initiatives, take their responsibilities, judge and compare. We, having done our duty to the people and having assumed our responsibilities for the adventure of the country, are here to vote for what has to be voted on and to vote against what is made up of your beastly lies, such as the abolition of favourable tax treatment for farmers. But you know, Minister, that you will remember me, because it is timely what I will tell you and it has to do with your opinion of Genocide. No one ever regretted something he didn't say. SYRIZA, unfortunately, not only did not say, but he said too much and soon this Greek people will appreciate and be placed accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u415	As I can see, Mr. Kefaliannis is not here. Mr Christos Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to talk about two articles and one amendment, and I shall end with this notorious genocide. I have heard from the rapporteur of the Democratic Association that the article on agricultural oil puts gravel on the agricultural economy. In order to reach agreement in this Chamber on 14 August, the third prerequisites for the adoption of these measures will be stated in Subsection D.5 of the amendment. ‘For diesel fuel used exclusively in agriculture, the rate of excise duty is set at EUR 200 per kilogram’. You voted on 14 August, for those who read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u417	For the fuel oil...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u418	You were gone, of course. You weren't a congressman at that time. I would remind you that the PASOK and the New Democracy voted for the third prerequisites, which wrote in it. What does the article coming in on this multi-project? There's one difference. Sets a date which had not been inadvertently entered before. It says that it applies from 30 September 2015 until 30 September 2016...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u419	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u420	But let me finish. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u421	Mr. Theocharopoulos, the speaker is right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u422	It's in the prerequisites you voted on August 14th. Stop being Janus. Stop saying other things in August and more in November, because that's how farmers love you. Farmers don't love you. You've been drinking them for five years. You won't remember them all of a sudden. Secondly, there is a great deal of interest in an article that has not been able to enter Parliament and which concerns small brewery. And what we didn't hear! We have heard 'Armagedon', 'destruct', 'the small craft industry and the brewery industry will fall down'. Listen to some evidence, why don't you take care of it. Take a non paper and then come and say it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u423	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u424	There are twenty small brewers, of which four have suspended their operation. Of the seventeen operating, fifteen have up to five thousand hectolitres a year. What influence would the increase in excise duty have on them? It would have very little influence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u425	When you bring in an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u426	But I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u427	Tell us about the two...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u428	Yeah, but do you want me to sit behind you and interrupt you when you're talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u429	Please, Mrs. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u430	So I'll tell you about the two, if you can handle me to tell you what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u431	You're quantifying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u432	Mr. Theocharopoulos, take time from the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u433	As far as the two majors are concerned, we are basically talking about one. This is a company that is marginally under two thousand hectolitres a year. As far as this company is concerned, if it tries to grow and reach two hundred five thousand a year or three hundred thousand hectolitres a year, what will it do? He won't pay the special tax normally? Does this company want to develop and go to the three hundred thousand or four hundred thousand, that is to say to acquire a larger part of the market? Then he can pay 100% of the special tax?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u434	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u435	Please. This is the third time you interrupt me. So, like the owner of this company, we care that this company will be able to develop the market for its own products. Why is it that until the two thousand are destroyed and more than two hundred thousand are not destroyed? How can he pay 100% of the special tax when he exceeds 20,000 hectolitres? There is no answer to that. So we are interested in this company being 199.999 thousand hectolitres and having a 50% reduction. But let's say that's what we're interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u436	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u437	Mrs. Marcus, you've signed up to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u438	I'm going on, despite the parasites. So I'm hanging up with the most famous genocide. Three days have elapsed in this Chamber, and more generally in Greece as a whole. So I will read you two paragraphs and then tell you what they are: "Unfortunately, apart from a few few exceptions, these refugees are mostly immortal, undisciplined, miserable, many fugitives, and I am afraid and harassed." Macedonian General Commander A.A. Adocidis, 1920. The second paragraph: "You have allowed me to note what we have said about Macedonia as a potential for immigration and residence there in the districts of Cars and Chalkis of Caucasus, from over fifty years old established Greeks of the Pontou. They, having persecuted mostly the well-known national conscience, and in many languages, having a soul that is encamped with slavism...". He is Mr. Chrysanthos, Metropolitan, then Banking and then Archbishop of Athens, and many awarded by the Greek state. These two texts, therefore, are sufficiently anti-poverty. I'm asking if you want us to dig them up, report them and take them to court. Because that's what they were saying. And finally, sometime open and no book read. Open up and no books to read, not the communists, the extremists, but open up any books to read, because these are from books of yours, from Mr. Fotiadis, from Mr. Myrbilis' Army and from whose journalist - I apologize - I forget his name. They are people on the right who wrote these, the complaints, the incidents that occurred in those years. So are all these people against the polar element and we should denounce them or express a view that can stand up to a dialogue? Because so far, as far as Mr Philly's face is concerned, I do not hear dialogue, but curses, threats and swearing. Curse, threats and curses, I hear! There is no place at the dialog table to have two sides saying their arguments, agree or disagree, but a different view will be taken from both sides. We cannot go after what you believe is not nationally correct. When that was the case, we had other regimes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Accept different views and with the strength of your arguments try to cause them to collapse. Not with threats, with curses and curses!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u440	Mr. Theocharopoulos, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, I am a parliamentary representative!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u442	You don't have the floor! The next speaker is Mr Pratsol.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, wait a minute! Please! I'm a parliamentary party representative!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u444	Please. Please. You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u445	Give me the floor for half a minute! I'll just say two things. I won't bother you. One is this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Theoharopoulos, please! You don't have the floor! You're a new congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, you were outside the Rules of Procedure - we are well aware of the Rules of Procedure - when you called on the Minister to speak within the six speakers. I say to you, within the Rules of Procedure, that a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u448	Why is he off-court?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u449	Because the Rules of Procedure say, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u450	Nice conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u451	Wait a minute! He referred twice to the Group of the Democratic Independence Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u452	And because he referred to the Group of the European People's Party?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u453	It would have come to an end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Theoharopoulos, sit down! Please. Please. Please! You don't have the floor! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u455	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u456	If the amendment comes, we have no problem with your article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u457	You voted in August...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Theoharous, please. You cannot ignore the Bureau! Please! Mr Pranchol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, which was introduced into plenary following the end of its preparation at the meetings of the relevant committees and after hearing all the opinions of all the bodies, there have been significant amendments and legislative improvements. We are therefore called upon to vote on these measures as a prerequisite for assessing and disbursing the 2 billion-dollar dose for stabilising the economy and later for the long-term debt negotiation. All the issues that are being dealt with are important and necessary. But I would like to focus more on two main issues, because of my previous experience in local government. The first relates to Article 31 of the present Treaty, which refers to amendments to Article 35 of the Treaty. 4042/12 for both the National Waste Management Plan and the Regional Waste Management Plan, the EMCDDA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Theocharopoulos and Mr. Karayannides, there is the canister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u461	The second relates to the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the European directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency. With regard to the first issue, I would like to say that the National Waste Management Plan, which was formulated following cooperation from the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, sets out its strategy, policies, targets and actions for waste management at national level for the next six years by 2020. A new waste management plan is in place with the aim of creating an alternative waste management model that is modern and environmentally friendly. The main objectives of the ECHR are, on the one hand, the hierarchy of waste management of national and Community legislation and, on the other, the reduction of waste production. In this way it responds to modern and pressing needs and to the acquis communautaire, so that waste management in our country is placed at the service of the environment and sustainable development, while drastically reducing the cost of management, for the benefit of society and citizens. The new ECHR also marks the overthrow of the policies pursued to date by the governments of at least the last decade and is directing towards an economy and a society with zero waste, a society that will turn waste into resources, promoting the concept of a circular economy in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, although the procedure for approving this draft is not expressly provided for in Mr von Wogau's report. 4042/12, this legislation is necessary because, in the event of its adoption, there is a risk that the National Plan will be called into question, even by the European Commission, so that it will not be possible to disburse all the necessary amounts of financing for infrastructure, waste management, estimated public expenditure of more than EUR 950 million, and even the ongoing projects of the current programme. And here I believe that it is the main refusal of the Opposition and of all those who oppose Article 31, namely that it is not accepted and cancelled in practice of the new ECHR and, of course, of all pioneers mentioned in it, in relation to waste management. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the considerable difference of understanding between a left-wing government and all those who have handled waste for so many years, without any substantial result, given that today in many regions this has not been solved yet. There is, for example, a municipality of the Peloponnese who had asked the Municipality of Evia to carry its waste there. I would like to say a few words about the Regional Waste Management Plan. I have listened very carefully to the positions of the CEDEFOP and ELPE representatives. The left-wing government, ever with political interventions now or in the future, will not distort democracy, as has been said. But how can some talk about anti-democratic provisions or abolishing the self-determination of municipalities when they do not. 4071/12 and Articles 13 to 17 provide that the regional links between FOSDA and the municipalities are compulsory and that all municipalities in the administrative units in the region concerned must participate in them, and indeed, when this is decided by 60% of the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, the words 'compulsory' and 'compulsory', how much democracy and self-sufficiency are they taking over? Following the legislative improvements made by the Minister, yes, the Regional Council is responsible for approving by decision of the Regional Council and its compatibility, but with the ECHR the central bodies of the state should decide, which is why it was necessary to ratify the ECHR by common decision of the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Energy. It is not too often that some regional plans, which have been submitted to the Ministry of the Environment and Internal Affairs for an opinion, fall short of the objectives of national planning and are not in line with their guidelines. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the adoption of the ESDP is also a heresy of the ESDP. There is therefore a need for effective control of regional planning by the central government, an obligation imposed by the latter. Regulation (EEC) No 4042/12. Time doesn't cover me. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to refer to the provisions in which Greek legislation is brought into line with Directive 202/27/EC and Council Directive on energy efficiency. The provisions of this Regulation lay down objectives, rules, measures and specific actions to improve energy efficiency in all sectors of economic activity. Reducing energy consumption and eliminating waste energy are becoming increasingly important in all the countries of the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, time is not enough. Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to the colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, of course being assisted by the systemic media - why is that? - on the occasion of the vote on this multi-legislative draft to report often concentratingly on tax raids, tax storms, etc. They came to the point that some of them even invoked the 'horse' of society for the policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, while it was heard by a PASOK Member if we are - and wondered - within society or avoiding it. Ladies and gentlemen, not only are we in society, because we are part of it and even authentic, but we also receive in all our contacts this call: you must succeed as SYRIZA, because we do not want the old system to come back, what brought us into this situation, this old system that has ruled the country for forty years and created the humanitarian crisis that we are all experiencing today, the poverty, unemployment and the economic collapse of the country. We are not part of the crisis that you have created, but we are and will remain part of the effort of the solution, its solution as quickly as possible. Today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is unfortunately collecting the bitter fruits of your seed. At the same time, however, it orchestrates, in order to sow the fruits of its own sowing, which, after passing this economic winter that you brought, will relieve the people, with priority being given to the weakest social groups. Because today, yes, we are the left-wing government that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Pratsol, put in a perfect one, you'll get rid of stress.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u463	I'll be out in two seconds. Yes, well, we are the Left Government that is forced into difficult measures, but we do not forget all of this with our souls. We were, we are, and we will be close to society and the people, because we feel its own part, fighting for a better tomorrow with prospects and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u464	Mrs. Karakosta from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u465	The issues, lots and lots of hot things that go into this bill. I, of course, shall confine myself to one point, which relates to my area and the area of fertilisers. But before that, I would like to make two important points. At this stage, these bills are individual and, in my view, individual. And I say this because our government must - and it has certainly not yet done so, because time and hugely the national and economic issues it has to deal with - are very short of planning. This also refers to the point, for example in the management of garbage and in the relationship of how this concept is passed as a culture to the Greeks. Because we need to talk about recycling and think about the fact that in our villages recycling was almost necessarily done, giving the excess of food to the animals, burning the papers in the fireplace, etc., while today there is waste being transported to eighty km, given the KALIKRATH, which we did not create, but the previous ones have created it and we are definitely being called to abolish it. Therefore, the people of New Democracy and PASOK should not be burned for self-government and democracy, because in principle we take the responsibility of creating it by abolishing shapes such as KALIKRATS and creating a new design on the issues of local government, unifying spatially with the same characteristics as our country. In this design, the energy issue must also come into play. Because we really need to save energy, but we cannot, for example, accumulate photovoltaics in places where we are producing products that we want to eat, or all wind power can be accumulated on an island. So spatial planning plays a very important role and we, as a government, really ought to put it in a broader planning, regardless of the individual we are going through today, because the country really has to work in the intervening period. A really positive article is the article on fertilisers, as we in our region call it. It is a wider area for which the whole region has been struggling for at least twenty years. What's that? They are three, four properties, namely, the property of HERAKLIS - about two hundred and twenty acres - the old fertilisers - are so many acres - and a part of the old "BP" that Melissanidis purchased and, unfortunately, with an article by Mr. So this really saves a wider area of overcrowding. I have heard the phrase many times today, 'To increase the rate, because the owners will react.' The owners of these spaces must understand that they also have a profit from other actions and should join the logic of this type of profit, which also helps the region at the same time. In other words, if someone visits the area today and sees the factory of "AGET HERAKLIS" and actually has a sensitivity architecture, it will understand that this is a monument of superior architectural history. In the uses that we use - if we already characterize the building - the volume of the building can fit a large build-up factor depending on the use you make in this volume inside. This is a different architectural direction, which we must also refer to in Parliament. Those who are architects here understand what I'm saying. The volume is independent of the build-up factor, i.e. determined by use. It can be a museum and it wants height, so it has a small building coefficient, it can be a hotel or exhibition area of another type and it can be a great building factor in this building. So, having this piece in principle, this article can be done an amazing process, with many fertiliser races. We want to make a park, save four buildings and characterized them as a preserver through the archaeological service. Same goes there. Think about putting energy systems in these buildings. Indeed, there can be very profitable activities in this area if combined with the fact that the passenger port is next door and therefore citizens can visit this area on foot, tourists staying for a two-hour period. Also, elements of commerce and crafts can be entered in the room - glass - etc. - which highlight the history of the processes that were going on there, but also of cultural, health activities - why not a hospital asking part of the people there? - and various actions that will be exploited and evaluated whether or not to enter this space and how to get in. If anyone visits the site, they'll see an excellent silo system. On their roof they have a two-storey building, where if a good businessman makes an excellent restaurant - to see entrepreneurship in relation to the space - it will really be treasured. So we cannot look at these and say: 'We are removing the owners, abolishing the entrepreneurs, the state needs money'. Oh, no. The state needs a view, a perception and cooperation with the owners, so that they too can win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u466	Thank you. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for some strange reason, the journalistic speech has baptized the bill we are debating today, the draft prerequisites bill. The truth is that after everything that has been played in the committees over these days, I think it could be baptized as 'the triumph of the government in a glass of beer'. I think we should not be fooled by the small parliamentary defeat of SYRIZA in the article on small brewery. The symbolism was as great as it took to send a message to society that it knows that under the new conditions we can say "no", that you do not pass all the prerequisites or what you baptize as "required", even this little symbolic resistance of the government to swallow society and the "urban". Now it is difficult, of course, to take advantage of the donkey of all the tax measures that have passed and will be over the next few days. As a 'urban', of course, you are putting the current bill, a draft law with a definite body on the European Energy Efficiency Directive, on the pretext of some prerequisites and a whole lot of unjust provisions almost all the ministries. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that the only reason why one deserves to remember this bill is the very many left-wing rumbles which include the way in which the government perceives the country's productive reconstruction. I think there have been many arguments about small brewers in both committees and in plenary, which, of course, did not convince the government. It was tampered with the argument - supposedly - of the troika - but, in fact, of the major players in the industry - that competition is supposedly improving. He did, of course, tell us that one of the biggest cases that the Competition Committee has dealt with was the 'VERGINA' case against 'Athens ZYTHYCYCY', a case in which the market was opened to a very large extent, as the milk market had already opened with regard to the cartel with small producers in 2006-2007. SYRIZA had then denounced, as Opposition, the release of raw milk and the release of days after pasteurisation, where each producer could take responsibility for what is fresh. I would remind you here, ladies and gentlemen, that the first government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks in the third memorandum has accepted complete liberalisation in the life of milk and that the exact number of maintenance days will be determined by the manufacturing industries. Now, the party that evangelizes the country's productive reconstruction has tried to make a very big gift to the big brewery players and actually lead to unemployment of too many who are involved in the small brewery. The second sample of writing in this bill is about the provision that increases the excise duty on agricultural oil, leading to triple costs in the primary sector. The way the government has worked and operated in the primary sector is a ramification to farmers and farmers, who are struggling every day in real difficult circumstances. At the same time as, on the basis of the economic policy agreement signed by the Prime Minister, the agricultural income tax is projected to increase from 13% to 20% for 2016 equivalents and 26% for 2017 incomes, the government publishes tax data to convince farmers that they have to pay. Perhaps the Prime Minister, as well as the other SYRIZA officials, will want us to forget how they treated farmers, as they generally faced the whole of society, that is to say, to turn them into a vote of protest to lead them to power. They may also want to make farmers forget that they won the election with a flag of EUR 12 000 tax-free, the abolition of revenue-cost books, the non-taxation of subsidies and the abolition of the 13% tax established by the previous government. Perhaps they want us to forget statements from the top ministers, such as Mr Stathakis, who was then accusing the Memorandum Government of being absent from the day-to-day struggle of farmers and farmers and not meeting their fair demands and taxing them wrongly. In fact, in 2014 they considered that farmers should be taxed and not today? And if they believed it, why didn't they suggest it as equivalent to an e-mail Hardouvel? The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that for the first time after 2009 we had a slowdown in agricultural exports. For the first time, Greek farmers and farmers are not paid in October by an advance of 50% of the single payment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u468	Last year when were they paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u469	I'll tell you, Mr. Comrade. For the first time we have waited eight months for an elementary decision on the country's grazing plans. For the first time, OPEKEPE and ELGA reserves were committed. For the first time comes the tax storm for farmers, who are taxed at a rate of 26% from the first euro, and the 100% tax advance is paid. For the first time, insurance contributions to the OGA will triple and subsidies and allowances will normally be taxed as equivalent. Finally, for the first time, the price of agricultural streams and the VAT of many agricultural supplies is rising from 13% to 23%. As far as economic policy is concerned, the government has only one idea of how it will govern, the idea of a predator. No measure concerns the production of new wealth. Everything is aimed at the state in existence, so that the ministers will relentlessly waste our money. Taxes, fees, taxes again and fee again! I am referring specifically to the example of the 'National' for 2006, where you might remember many people, who then said that it was a very bad choice. However, through this option - and I refer to Finansbank, which the Greek Government is now seeking to sell through the 'National' - the 'National' had flowed into its funds around EUR 9 billion. Of course, this all belongs to the past. The harsh reality of the third memorandum puts an end - and even final - to Greek sovereignty in Eastern Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, the Government sells Finansbank, so that it does not fall under the financial stability fund's nets, but also ensures that the positions, the bankers that Mr Tsipras denounces. Unfortunately, this move is one of the most introvertible political acts that you have ever taken, gentlemen of the government, and it is still a sign of your philosophy to become a Balkan Soviet once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u470	Last year, when did they get the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u471	50% took it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u472	When did they take it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u473	Every year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u474	Mr. Papadopoulos, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u475	But he won't tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u476	In-October. 50% got it. Now they're gonna take it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Papadopoulos, we have a guest I must announce.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u478	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u479	We justify him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and an educational attendant from the 4th General School of Pyrgos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitrios Sevastakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President. Usually, the quality of a piece of legislation is seen by the possibilities of developing, extending and promoting it in the future, that is to say, if it draws attention to those steps that can legally establish a new type of development and a new type of management of the existing wealth or the existing problem alternatively. This piece of legislation - to its great core - I think it has great potential and we should see it with such a widening. The turn to confronting for the first time the Greek settlement, the Greek building, the city, its energy side, energy rationalisation, I think it is a prototype and mature turn. Until the 2000s there has been an extensive development. And we have an extension of the city of irrational, irreversible and mainly with the core of growth. In fact, the new visa must be of quality, that is to say, to introduce certain quality characteristics into what it has carried out in previous years. The new rich Greek concept that considered the city to be the eternal magnified value, I think, with the recent crisis, it has been crushed. This bill in fact incorporates a directive. Behind this directive there is a problem: it is a urban one. In other words, the directive does not put the aspects of alternative housing, the alternative housing which has other qualities, planting, orientation, ventilation, what the improvised exotic architecture has incorporated, and which should necessarily be like qualities, Minister, and in our view, a progressive revision of all the housing protocols. So if we look at this aspect of the qualities of exotic, non-intensive building, incorporated into the building, I think we are being given great potential. If we do not make the intelligent choice to rid the ENPI of those who are moving towards an energy upgrade of their buildings - I mean private individuals - I think we will also give a stronger development dimension to legislative conception. I would like to say that the developmental ideal of the post-war was based, among other things, on the barrier of the coastal front. That is what my colleague said earlier. In Drapetson, this concept involving the bill, trying to restore normal contact of the city with the sea with new, modern terms, despite all the reservations about ownership, I think it is in a very serious direction. The restoration of this normal relationship with cultural projects, with cultural or alternative investments - no non-developmental - I think it gives a mature dimension. Overall, the bill has aspects of maturity and we should see it, despite all reasonable reservations made by many. There are sides, particularly in the cognitive area of education, which we are trying to restore administrative arrhythmias for those who have contact with the educational area. The FYROM and its structures have very often malfunctions. I think he's trying to put in stimulus and functional improvements. I do not know if the finals are the ones, but I think they are in a serious direction, as is the possibility for graduates of GEL and PES to give alternative import reports. I would add a care to the multitude and the tritexes and a total care to these categories of pupils who have a lower starting point. I would like to say that this shift in non-intensive growth, where it thinks enlargement is a saver and a good tool of good growth, I think it is important. I'd like to see from the field of counter-mutualisation. I would like to see the ways in which the built can assimilate, assimilate the qualities he needs and give a new building bloom on completely different terms from previous decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u482	Mr Alexiadis has the floor for introducing amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u483	I would like to introduce a number of amendments. The first is the general number 42 and a special 28 on the subject of VAT on private education. With this amendment we have been legislating on all the extensions of VAT to the education given over the past period and we have been able to delete fines that have been introduced since the application of the law throughout this period. In other words, we are dealing with the time extensions and the fines that have been imposed so far. And of course, as you know, from day to day this issue will be resolved with the final decisions of the government. The next amendment is with a general number 38 and a special 24 on the selection of cases to be checked. We are strengthening the provision in place since 2013 which defined that by decisions of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue - in one general wording, they are in the repealed provisions - it could choose which cases to be checked. Now it becomes more specific than the legislator what assumptions will be chosen for control. And for the first time in our tax system, we have a specific direction for every year what we will control of old tax evasion cases and what from new tax evasion cases, to stop this situation that has been in place so far, where they could have been more subjective - to how - to choose the cases to be checked. Now, in the advanceisation of controls, we will have more specific criteria. The third amendment, with a general number 43 and a special number 29, concerns the issues of the rate of car registration fee. It concerns cars with Euro 5 and Euro 4 coefficients. There are already Euro 6 cars. This is done whenever a new Euro category is created, 1, 2, 3, 4. We're at 6. It is a request from the automobile trade area to deal with too many automobile sales issues, imports, etc. It is also the amendment with a general number 44 and a special 30 that deal with issues relating to the clearance of the Kopais Agency. The amendment has one single objective: to conclude as soon as possible and finally to end the liquidation of this particular body, which has been involved in the public debate and Parliament, but has not yet finished. It is possible to conclude the liquidation with this amendment. The Minister for Finance is given the opportunity to make a decision, which will define in a much more concrete way what needs to be done to complete the liquidation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u484	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u485	Mr. Brutsi, would you like to clarify?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u486	That's right, Mr. President. I should like to make a few comments on the amendments tabled by Mr Alexiadis. After all, I have made a reference this morning to the fact that I expected Alexiades to come in to give some clarification, especially on the amendment concerning VAT on education. First of all, Minister, let us know if you are accepting the New Democracy amendment that abolishes VAT on education and reduces VAT to 13% in the care facilities of the elderly. But the second thing I would like to say, which concerns this amendment - and this morning I think you are positive that you are abolishing the fines imposed on education - is that this amendment actually conceals the maintenance of 23% of VAT on education. Because, if the law is finally passed as it is, VAT 23% remains in fact with this amendment. Because here, it does not abolish the main tax, 23%, which has been imposed, abolishes the fine. And the amendment does not say in it, as the issue of 23% in education reopens with the amendment, that this issue is being stopped. It remains 23% for taxable persons, namely education, and this issue remains open. Basically, 23% of VAT is incorporated into the bill. So this moment, Mr President, is crucial. And now we want clarification on the fate, on the fate of the amendment signed by all the Members of the New Democracy and tabled by our President, Vaggelis Meimarakis - not to repeat it - for the abolition of VAT in education, but also for what it hides, and if it is finally adopted with this amendment, 23% in VAT, something we are opposed to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u487	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u488	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, I would like to respond to the issues raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u490	You accept the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u491	I'll answer you right away. I think it is very clear what I said and I think that in the Minutes of the House it has been recorded. We are not bringing an amendment that abolishes VAT on education. We have said that these issues, the equivalents, etc. are at a stage of discussion. You all know what we're fighting for, why we're absent from here and what things we're running for. At the moment we are not bringing an amendment to abolish VAT on education. We have tabled an amendment to take care of the extensions that have been made so far by law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u492	The fines.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u493	Oh, no. And extensions. Expansions were given...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u494	The main tax.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u495	I'll answer you. Expansions were given to VAT in education at its beginning and there was a legal problem. With this amendment we are resolving the issue of these extensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u496	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u497	I think it was your request and everyone until the tax was abolished. That's the first. Secondly, we are dealing with the issue of fines because some fines have been imposed. Now let's go to your request: I expected you to bring an amendment and ask for the abolition of HISPIA - and I wonder how you haven't brought it yet, but by the night it will come too, okay - and income taxes and many other things. On the subject of VAT in education, I told you, make a little patience in the day, tomorrow, there will be announcements from the government, specific provision will come and it will be resolved. Now, on the other issues that you say about the VAT amendment to education, of course it is not acceptable to the reasoning I have analysed - of course, Mr Skourletis is here to address these issues - but also to the care facilities of the elderly, we have answered both a timely question and have explained it. Happy we would be to abolish everything, but through the political necessity of the agreement that we were led to because of the disastrous economic and social policy you had in previous years, we are obliged to have a tax policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u498	All right, Minister. It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u499	Mr President, may I have the floor? I want to say something complementary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u500	You have a right to speak. Not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u501	In addition, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u502	You want to talk now? Take the floor as a Parliamentary Representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u503	For two minutes, let me have a word on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u504	You don't have to. You will take the floor, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u505	Clearly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u506	You're making it easier for your colleagues, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u507	Please, clarification. I did not say, Mr Alexiadis, that - and I made myself clear - that this amendment abolishes VAT. I said the opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u508	Good. He explained it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u509	We regulate the deadlines, reasonable. We welcome the abolition of fines, reasonable. But basically 23% of VAT is incorporated and maintained. For the main VAT tax which arises, you say nothing. I repeat, if the present is left...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Brutsi, he made it clear. You may not have been satisfied with the answer. You're going to take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u511	...amendment, VAT remains...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u512	Make it easier for your colleagues! Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u513	Mr President, it did not last long. Thirty seconds for something so important?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u514	Here you go, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u515	To solve Mr Brutsi's doubt, I would refer him to read yesterday's statements by Mr Moscovisi, who said that there has been no debate at all on VAT on education. Now, because it has been submitted or will be tabled - I do not know - an amendment to extend this tax until 16 November, the reason is obvious. Our amendment has been tabled and the government is trying to get time, to leave today's sitting. However, if it were serious about the government's intention to negotiate VAT on private education, it did not have a better chance to do so, rather than now with Mr Moscovisi, where in the context of the discussions on the basis of immigration, the government raises various issues and could raise this issue as well. I followed, Mr Skourletis, the five-minute intervention you made a few hours ago. I would like to say that I am very honoured by the fact that Mr Skourletis was present and that is very important, I would say, for our own parliamentary customs. But you have committed two mistakes: The first mistake is that you do not understand that you are a government minister, which means that your role is to defend the bill introduced into the House rather than attack anti-Population to justify what you actually want to hide. And the second is that you must at some point, in this Chamber, clarify - your government - if this third memorandum is good or bad. If it's yours or it's some third party, or it's the lenders. Mr Tsipras and the government at times have claimed the fatherhood of the third memorandum. So it's yours, it's either good or bad. Let's sort this out. The second issue is whether it is really good or bad. You two are on foot in two boats. Whenever you want to press on in the fact that it is a good deal, but when the individual measures come to implement it, there you say that it was a product of pressure. So you have to choose: Is the Memorandum good or bad? And because you made a comparison with our own memos and our own governance, I would like to ask you whether you have bothered to read the report published today, the report by the Commission, on the situation in which the Greek economy is today. What does the Commission say? That because of the endless negotiation of the second memorandum, due to the failure to close the fifth assessment, due to the referendum you held, due to the bank closure, due to the early elections declared last September, the country's economy took a rapid downturn and from 0.8% growth, the biggest in the Eurozone in 2014, and 2.9% forecast for 2015 and 3.5% for 2016, we have a negative forecast of 1.4% for 2015 and 1.3% for 2016. This is your success. So do you want to compare the two policies? What do these rhythms mean? They mean that, following our own course, today we would be in a complete and concrete phase of getting out of the memoranda and commitments, while you put us in the third memorandum. The consequence of this is the constant reductions in the income of citizens, which you are supposed to defend, the increase in unemployment, the closure of businesses. I can only tell you that since the increase in VAT in the focus from now on, that is, after the end of the summer season, you will count a hundred and thirty-five thousand unemployed because of this measure. Only that measure. That's your policy! That's what you've done! And you dare compare to our own policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u516	Didn't you close your fifth evaluation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u517	We didn't close the fifth evaluation. If we closed it on the fifth evaluation, we'd take measures of 1.5 billion, not 14 billion you took. We would take the 7,2 ladies and gentlemen, who lost them from the fifth evaluation, we would hold the 10 billion that took you through the hands of the CFSF and would not sign a third Memorandum of 86 billion. This is your success. That is the result of the tough negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u518	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u519	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm moving fast, I don't have time. I'll take your private lessons. Let me finish. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to two other issues quickly. The basis of today's proposal for a law is a European directive and this appears to be a prerequisite. I don't know if it's a prerequisite. We have asked you on several occasions in this Chamber from the sixty articles, which are prerequisites. And I ask you directly, Mr Skourletis, despite the fact that you are not the Minister responsible, but - what should we do? - represent the Government: Tell us, is the special reward of members, the President and the Board of Directors, the Rehabilitation and Education Centre a prerequisite? We should know that. And anyway, why don't you tell us what you want to do? Why is there this exception? Let's go to a second issue. You told us before - you said so, and that is why I mentioned it - as regards the oil from the farmers that we voted for it a while ago. What did we vote for, Mr. Skourlet? We voted on the country's stay in the Eurozone. And why did we vote for that? Because it was incapable of the previous government to obtain a majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u520	Where did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u521	We have told you before the House that we are voting on the stay, but we do not recognise and we are not going to adopt the special measures which will come in connection with tax burdens. With what we're talking about today, what are you doing? You come to specify the date of commencement of this obligation. And we're telling you that we don't vote for her. But on one thing, you're right and I'll recognize it. To what? You say 'You voted'. In other words, for our well-meaning position to cover your own government weakness, which you are politically responsible for, because you left the country untimely, on the edge of the cliff and the opposition covered it - we acted like this - you turn now and say: 'Be careful that you voted'. That's good and useful. We will bear this in mind, Mr Skourletis and gentlemen of the government, and for the next legislation, the way in which you are dealing with our well-deserved position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u522	Until then your speech, Mr Stamatis, must be finished. Put an end to it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u523	Wait a minute, I'll be done. And we get to beer. You told us this was included in the toolbox. I did not know that you became so adaptable to the demands of Mr Guria and the OECD. You were telling us more. You said to us: 'Where did you find this international organisation, which is committed to the service of specific interests?' In any case, beyond that, this is in the second toolbox - it is not the first - the paternity of which was also accepted by the Prime Minister of the country. But I will give you an example from the past. In the first toolbox, which was ours, we did not accept 100% of OECD definitions. Do you want an example? The milk we talked about a moment ago. Eleven days were the dates set for the designation of raw milk. We made seven of them, and in order to cover our own producers we established the'milk day' against the toolbox. So you guys, from where and how far you find the right today to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u524	Mr. Stamatis, and if you were a minister, you would have spoken half a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u525	Hey, what do we do? They interrupted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u526	Are you done and I didn't get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u527	I was written to talk in the first place. Uh, I couldn't mix it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u528	What can we do, Mr. Stamatis? Put a perfect one, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u529	So as far as beer, which you say is in the OECD toolbox, is your creation. On the other hand, the problem arises: will we allow these Greek units to be destroyed? Because a famous theory was heard a moment ago, which said: 'Let production increase'. What about the mood? Disposal is not subject to those rules, i.e. the manufacturer's disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u530	Mr. Stamatis, our mood is exhausted. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u531	It's the way a product passes on to the market. When the other man is an emperor and blackmails the shopkeepers, how will the small producer increase production? To make it available where, if we don't make it easier for him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Stopatis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u533	And the question, Mr Skourletis, because you told us at the previous meeting: 'What interests do you serve?'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u534	You ignore me and dialogue with the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u535	With this provision, what interests are served? Tell us who is served by this provision. And I say this because it has been strange to hear that this provision will come back to life. That's where we'll find the size of the ass and who's doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u536	Mr President, I would like to make a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u537	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u538	I'd like to make a legal improvement. In paragraph 5, Article 51, after the end of the ‘Marcopoulou Convention’, the following annexes are added on the subject of the OIE, Annex I, ‘Description of Property’, Annex III, ‘Equipment’, Annex IV, ‘Title and Licences’ and Annex V, ‘Third-third-party rights’, as follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u539	Mr President, I also have a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u540	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u541	This is a legislative improvement concerning the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Article 42 and the second subparagraph of paragraph 4, again Article 42. It's a series of legislative improvements to the annexes. We're filing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u542	I would also like to say that the amendments, as the Deputy Minister for Finance has presented before, are accepted. In particular, the amendments with a general number 44 and a special 30 - I will not mention any more, because you have just heard them - with a general number of 43 and a special 29, with a general number of 42 and a special number 28, and also with a general number of 38 and a special 24. Parliamentary amendment on the possibility of transferring refugees and immigrants is also accepted and tabled by the Members of Parliament, Mr Sevastakis, Mr Armalene, Mr Kamaero and Mr Pallis. Also, the amendments referred to earlier by Mr Dritsa under a general number of 45 and a special number 31. All this has been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u543	They have been distributed, but what are you accepting is the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u544	What I'm saying is accepted. Also, the amendment tabled by Mr Paulakis under a general number 37 and a special number 23, concerning the administrations of hospitals, and the amendment with a general number 39 and a special 25, which deals with matters relating to the management of property and logistics. It corrects various old and some additional new responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u545	Minister, do you repeat the numbers of the parliamentary amendments you are accepting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u546	I am very grateful to you so far only mentioned one. It was Mr. Sevastakis's transfer of refugees. Also, the amendment tabled by Ms. Meropi Jufi under a general number 46 and a special 32 regarding the modification of the exemption date of the Company "Mechanical Industry of Epirus S.A." and the presentation of tax information only in case of collection due by the public limited company "Greek Defence Systems" to meet the public operational needs of the Armed Forces by way of derogation from the applicable provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u547	Wait a minute, Mr. Carras, an announcement to this House. It turns out to be adventurous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u548	I feel comfortable, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u549	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-six students and students and three teachers from the 10th Ioannina Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Carras, you finally have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u550	Before I begin, I would ask the Minister to explain something to us in an amendment. Have you referred to an amendment to the hospital administrations or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u551	Yes, Mr. Paulakis developed it this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u552	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to understand how we legislate. I am trying to understand whether these laws, which are introduced by a rain of amendments, can finally be understood. Legislation is not just about us here talking about it. Legislation will apply to the public services, to the courts. It must be the property of every citizen, legislation must be democratic. Unfortunately, however, today - at least the legislation I have been following in the committees, and today in plenary - I see that we are overwhelming by noxious amendments. They may be useful, they may be urgent - I will not judge it at the moment - but it is a series of amendments that are inconsistent with each other that catastrophic the consistency of the legislation. I do not want to comment any more, but I would like to point out that this way of legislation, whether in good or bad, cannot continue. The legislation to be passed by the Greek Parliament must have the conquest of the democratic principle, that is to say, that every Greek citizen who knows few letters, reads it, understands its content. But the way he cannot help. So I come to say the following now in relation to the amendments in themselves. What creates journalistic noise, journalistic saliva comes as an amendment. How long will the question of VAT in education be dealt with in the House and in the Greek society? Either the government decides that it should be imposed or rationalised or abolished. It cannot, at the moment, change the law for some days, abolish the fines imposed when the law was in force and say: 'I haven't studied it yet, tomorrow I will bring in and answer it.' I think we are now losing our seriousness. I did not want to use this expression, but I am forced by facts. So we are talking about this bill. We are discussing this in detail in committee, in plenary yesterday and in plenary today. What can I say? May I say that the incorporation of the directive is a good measure? Yes, we have said so from the outset that energy savings must not be just legislative texts or wishes, but also be an act. We shall see, then, and if this incorporation of the new directive can still be done and it can be done in the economy that Greece lacks. I want to say something, however, to the Ministers for Rule 14 and I would like to ask a question. In Article 14 of the draft law entitled 'Strasbourgs', we read a series of fines to producers, retailers, to each category involved in this subject. So I would like to ask: are these fines imported after the imposition of European legislation? I would ask Mr. Skourletis at this point to listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u553	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u554	I don't contract. So I would like to ask: I read of fines ranging from EUR 5 000 to EUR 50,000, I read of fines from EUR 5 000 to EUR 100,000, from EUR 5 000 to EUR 15 000. Are these fines, Minister, an obligation of the European Union or are they the criteria introduced by the Greek Government to place the fines? They have a vast range, which is not justified. If we start with a minimum of 5,000 euros, let us get to 15 000 euros, let us get to the maximum of 20,000 euros. We can't go 30 times up to 150,000 euros. I'm on my way. I had at the committee meeting on the issue of geothermality, which at least the Centro Association considers to be an important issue for the development of the country because, at least in the present year, of the energy poverty that we are observing. It was said, therefore, that PPC - renewable contracts should be extended for five years so that geothermality can be developed. I had to resort to the PPC website - Renewables and legal information banks. What did I find out? I found - and I am tabling this on the Minutes - that the first decisions to grant the geothermal fields to PPC were in 1986 and had thirty years' power. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios-Dimitrios Karras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I found something else that PPC - renewable comes on its website and confesss installed power zero. So why don't we give them back where they're not being used, where they're inactivated? I propose that the provision be abolished, withdrawn, Minister, so that Greece can move forward, with cooperation, with strategic investors. Why here is a question asked: Previously the newspapers wrote that funds from abroad for PPC - Renewables had been taken over, so that there would be a strategic investor. The report tells us that the banks have not financed. Since there was a strategic investor, would the bank be necessary? Finally, I should like to refer to the amendment which I have asked for and explained by the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Dritsa. I am a Poriot and I was informed about the issue of the fact that the licenses of these old ships circulating in the Argosaronic have expired and should be withdrawn. I have seen Mr Dritsa's amendment giving a small extension. He answered to my question, too, that they have navigation certificates. I propose that it be accepted, but under time limitation. An extension is given for one year. I do not think we need to get to the point, 30-five-year-old boats traveling through the seas and the Saronic, which also has its own specificities. Let us give them a quarter to five months to make sure they are adapted to the legislation so that they receive the new European Union certificates, to see whether they are safe or not. Because already the Special Speaker of the Union of Centres and the other speakers who will follow, if they do so, Mr President, will be mentioned, I will stop here and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u555	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u556	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a request to the Minister, who is obviously uncertain about all of us. I ask, if he can, that a legislative improvement be accepted. Where we have engineers qualified for energy auditors we have forgotten the agronomist engineers. I would ask the Minister, in order not to table an amendment, to accept this legislative improvement which includes agronomist engineers in the energy auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u557	Mr. Hajisavvas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u558	The second time I've been elected a Member and the bills come to Parliament in the same way. The same day they are being discussed in the committees and until we understand what we say in the committees has already been voted on. Members don't know when and whether they're gonna talk, but we're sitting here waiting for our turn. The New Democracy, which now renounces SYRIZA for bringing the bills in this way, did exactly the same or rather invented the way they are doing and continue, saying for these months of governance of SYRIZA that it is a rave that burned Greece. We agree. It was a throat that burned Greece. But what exactly did the New Democracy disagree when it even voted in the summer on this agreement, which was a third memorandum? Now we heard the speaker, who says that it doesn't matter what the agreement was writing when we voted for it, meaning, he says, he has how after the beam we interpret the vote. We vote first, when they need us, then we say that we voted to save Greece from a disaster, which we hear every time elections and referendums are coming, and now it says that they are not voting. All these measures are consequent. Of course, now they don't need the government to vote and play resistance, that they don't need to vote. When the time comes, they will vote again. They led the free professionals and some branches, such as taxi drivers, for example, to a demonstration of the 10 euros they cut, 6 euros being costs. Pharmaceuticals, in a completely non-competitive situation against multinationals, who will open up pharmacies everywhere, should work from morning to night. For the bakers with the frozen dough we have told them in other talks. You've completely kneeled them. We now have the VAT on education, which took a postponement late in November. It's not just colleges and private schools that the rich go to, it's also foreign language schools. The people who will be writing, if VAT is actually imposed, will continue from there on new registrations, or will it be retroactively to those who have already registered their children? I come to the subject of excise duty on small breweries that have been voted against. It's a good vote. I think that it has been voted against, so that the ANELs can have a point of view. Otherwise, I don't see why he's in the government. The question was raised by us to safeguard consumers against so-called Greek products, which are presented on television as Greek products, told us by the representatives of brewers that they are not Greek companies, but have been purchased by multinational trusts, such as "FIX", "MYTHOS", "ALFA" and other similar companies. All right, they work Greeks there, but at least there's no such misinformation on television and say "Buy this Greek product", which is a foreign company. In fact, I had noted to ask you whether you would bring it in, to sneak it over to another bill. You must have caught up with us. We see that there is an amendment which leads to it. We, the Golden Dawn People's Association, denounce that none of this is by chance. You have identified, targeted and destroyed all sectors of the primary sector, farmers, farmers, fishermen and fishermen. You increase taxes and levies and reduce the discount on farmers' oil. That is, almost at the same price as someone's going to put oil on his jeep to take walks to Kolonaki will put the farmer on to go orgasm his field. You think that's how it's going to be developed? Do you think that by putting all the equivalents on the producer's back, you will receive more money, will it increase competitivity? Do you consider them income, do you consider them free professionals that every day they have revenues, that month they come out, they have revenues and can pay the increased contributions you're going to put on them, the tax for next year? Even if they will grow next year, farmers do not know about the floods in both Kilkis and Serres and other regions. I have also seen a proposal for an electronic oil card based on IACS declarations. Okay, but you know ICUs all producers do, from the smallest to the biggest. What criteria from there are we going to put on the card? And when you were government, who suggested this card, why did the Greek hydrothroats look at it was a matter of conspiracy and you didn't extract it? We, Mr Kegeroglou, the Golden Dawn, propose to create a friendly environment for protecting the primary sector, producers, farmers, fishermen, an environment for protection and intervention to ensure production and honour, of course not with the pathogens of the old CYPRUs or the associations that had built up shops, which most of them were preparing to become MPs or ministers in a government. The extraction of natural gas and oil, Greek oil, is the only solution. With this we have to make cheap Greek fertilisers and give the Greek farmers. We must give cheap oil from the Greek we are going to mining to farmers to grow. All the bills you bring, it is the management of the memorandum and of course the reactions of the Opposition are also for the unsatisfactory management. I understand, of course, your pain, you on the left, where you said you were the system's rebels, to become ultimately simple system managers. As for genocide or ethnic cleansing, Minister - we have said so, we have said so before, I will not say the same - I just call upon all of you to see the democracies of this democratized left in Santa, for the mothers who drowned their children so that they wouldn't fire them and tell me whether this is genocide or not. Of course I'm Cappadakis, I'm not Pontius, but I'm elected in Kilkis and I represent the mouse element that votes for us at least. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude in five seconds, Mr President. I would like to tell you that if you do not have the issue, do not concern yourself. If you own it, that's what you're doing. Do at least what the descendants of Lenin and Stalin do here, who dare not - and well do - to engage in terms like genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u559	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u560	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the incorporation, among other things, of a Community directive and there has been a lot of discussion on whether we have delayed its incorporation into it, about who is to blame for the delay, about whether we are consistent with our obligations as a country, on a number of such issues. I will say that they are of course important, but since we are talking about our credibility as a country, about our international image, about the importance of all this in our foreign policy, I do not think anyone can avoid thinking about what the impact of our foreign policy on a particular target of our foreign policy was on the statement by the present Minister. The Minister referred to a particular issue and I would also like to hear - and I listen carefully enough, because I have listened to the other Minister, Mr Skourletis, but I have also heard colleagues from Syriza - what exactly is your position on Mr Phile's position. Are you defending him on what basis? On the basis of freedom of speech? Is that what you're talking about? That he has a right to say something? Do you think this is our conversation? Yes, sir! If our debate is this, then we must finish it quickly, because there is obviously freedom of speech. But the question is: Is there a political impact from what a minister says or is it not? The Minister, not Mr. Philis, not the private, not the professor, not the scientist, the Minister of Education of Greece, is entitled to have a different position and to express it as Minister than the Minister said by the Greek Parliament? So here the question is clear and addressed to SYRIZA, it is addressed to the other political forces. Is there a political force today that says that with regard to the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontou, as recognised by law by the Greek Parliament, we must rethink it and review it? Does anyone say so in the Chamber? Let me hear! Does anyone say so in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u561	Did anyone bring it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u562	You say that, ma'am?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u563	Did anyone bring it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u564	Yes, sir. So I guess I don't. No one says so in the Chamber. So, Mr. Friend is on his own. Mr. Skourlet, does the government say that? Because I have heard fellow Members say to open up the debate, discuss what genocide is, discuss what ethnic cleansing is. I repeat: does anyone open this debate by the political forces? Because if he doesn't open it, then Mr. Friend stays alone. And let's go to the next one. Did Mr. Friend's statement harm Greece's foreign policy? Don't think too much. Refer to the headlines of the Turkish press. Yes, he did damage. And let's go to the next one. The Prime Minister to his Minister who took this position, despite the will of all the political forces, who took this position despite the will of the Greek Government, has anything to say or says: 'All right we are, shall we go further, despite the damage that Mr Philes created in the national position'? Leave the freedom of speech now. Let go of these now. Look, if anyone can't keep his mouth shut when he's Minister, he's coming down from the dorm, he's out of the hall and he says what he wants. But these positions have commitments because you don't serve yourself, you're not SYRIZA Minister. You're the Minister of the Greek Government and you serve the national position! So the question arises: is there any way to stop the debate? Because I heard that from Mr. Skourlet. You're, he says, patriots. Are we patriots because we say that this Minister's statement is harming foreign policy and national policy, in the direction that you are supposed to have agreed? And we're patriots? Do you want to close this thing in three seconds? Help us, Minister. Resign. I'm appealing. You take responsibility for your error... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I love you having fun. You're having fun because you obviously don't understand the importance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u565	The results of your rhetoric have come, Mr. Voridis! Crewed Member of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u566	Now we'll talk. Oh, that's our rhetoric, Mr. Philie? Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u567	Who's arming the hand of the trumpets, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u568	Tell me who's arming it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u569	And instead of telling me first about what you see in front of you, you're telling us theories now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u570	Yes, sir. So we're going to what I see in front of me and Mr. Skourletis is sensitive to this and he's doing very well. I congratulate you, Minister. Who's arming your hand? Not those arson statements?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u571	Your arson statements!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u572	So, this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u573	So you're just justifying this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u574	Oh, no! Of course I do. You told me who's armed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u575	Reveal yourself, let everyone see you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u576	Mr President, our speaker speaks. Please limit the Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u577	I don't mind, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u578	Mr. Brutsi, Mr. Voridis gave his speech an interactive text,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u579	It's okay. I'm the one who's used to dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u580	...with the result that he will take out his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u581	All right, Mr President, but let me finish this. Mr Skourletis, when there is of course an insult, a daisy Member of the New Democracy, instead of being self-critical, your Government for the misery it has said, will you come and tell me if I can justify the act? The act is self-determination, but we need to find out who's triggering it. That is the question: who deceives the whole political system and, of course, it triggers the terrible trabucism. And instead of being self-criticist, do you come and give us up? You're agitating us on top? Instead of apologising, instead of repenting, instead of placing yourself in the only way there is, where is the resignation of the Minister, you come and resign us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u582	Because you've kidnapped politics all these years, will we, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u583	What policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u584	Who bankrupt the country, Mr. Voridis? Who bankrupt Greece? Who never applied what he was voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u585	We're talking about bankruptcy now. You probably went to another click of the debate, because we were not talking about finance now. Now we've been talking about the national manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u586	It has nothing to do with it. The devaluation of politics is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u587	Mr. Femmelle, please. Mr. Voridis, you have now thoroughly taken the analysis of the bill, but time has run out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u588	So should I say two things that are of interest to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u589	Not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u590	Why 'not now'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u591	It's late.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u592	Because time is running out, Mr. Voridis. We don't have any different timescales.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u593	If I may be 20 seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u594	Time's up, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u595	Keep the Rules of Procedure in order to ask for custody.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u596	Why are you keeping him, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u597	Please, Mr. Femmelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u598	You, because you are exemplary and never one of SYRIZA Members has gone beyond time, so you give up on us. I request permission from the President. If he didn't give it to me, he didn't give it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u599	Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u600	Thank you very much. Two points: the first is that we have tabled an amendment. This concerns the well-known issue of airport returns. The previous decision you have taken, the legislation you have made, actually interferes with pending judicial disputes. You have the opportunity, in accepting the amendment, not to make this disgraceful intervention, which is in favour of a company and at the expense of local authorities. You can accept it and start setting from this. You have the ability to do that. And the last is the amendment for hospital managers. Excuse me, leave the commanders to hospital administration without appointing them. They shall resign and shall not be supplemented. You don't put any deputys and you don't have any governors. Hospitals don't work legally. They're making illegal decisions because you don't want to apply the law in force. And are you bringing us an amendment that actually sets up the carpet for illegal changes of administration? It is possible to go to ex post legalisation because you left administrations without governors, why do you not want to implement the law? Is it possible that you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, will not respond to such extremes anymore? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u601	Mr. Diaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u602	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u603	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u604	I think I can have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u605	I don't think so, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u606	Okay, it's important, Mr. President. He's a congressman to make an exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u607	Come on, Mr. President. Give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u608	If I may be allowed by this House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u609	A Member of Parliament has been beaten and has the right to address this House, Mr President. Give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u610	Ask the House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u611	I'm not asking this House. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u612	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, you should be aware that history, and indeed its most tragic moments, its most dramatic moments for a nation, is not recorded or deleted. Also, Minister, it is not forbidden. And there have been many who have attempted to falsify our national history.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u613	Mr. Kumucaco, will you speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u614	I never thought that among these could be my country's Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u615	That's not right now. You asked for the floor to speak on another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u616	It'll also be mentioned in this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u617	I'm convinced...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u618	Mr. Kumucaco, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u619	Having suffered the violence of extreme unacceptable trumpets, I am convinced that soil and water to develop this violence and such behaviours offer such statements as those you have done. From there on, I know, I have seen faces, and I know under the direction of which these tramps, those who tried to rob the pain and the justified indignation of the Pontian unions, have acted. And those who did, spiritual fathers, are the ones who have murdered, who are the actors of racism, xenophobia and the most extreme ones there is in our country's social and political life. I expect an overall condemnation of this. At the same time, I believe that the Minister has come to consider what he has sparked and done accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u620	First of all, Mr. Kumucaco, I want to apologize...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u621	Mr. Kumucaco, tell us what happened. Let's find out what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u622	Please, that's what I'm saying. Mr. Kumucaco, first of all, I apologise. I was in the Chair, and I had no knowledge of the incident. It goes without saying that the condemnation and disapproval of energy, which, as I have heard, has committed extreme elements. She's self-evident, and here she is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u623	The Golden Dawn, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u624	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u625	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u626	Quiet! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u627	Do us a favor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u628	Sit down, I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u629	Do us a favor! The Bubbies, you should have told them that! You gave the Minister of Education forgiveness!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u630	Sit down! Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u631	On a point of order, Mr President, there is a major issue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u632	Here you go, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u633	Mr. Kumoutsakos is coming here and making an incomplete complaint. The House demands more information so that we can be informed. Neither did you, Mr. President, say that you knew...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u634	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u635	So please, Mr. Kumucako. These things are serious and from what I heard - he says - they were inside the building.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u636	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u637	Mr President, I want to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u638	Mr. Brutsi, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u639	It's on what you said, I believe. We had just before the condemnation of the violence against Mr Kumucaku. This should be aggregated by Parliament as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u640	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u641	Let's say it, Mr. President. It's crowded by everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u642	I think I'm expressing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u643	You must say that it is aggregation by all the Members of this Parliament. It's a critical size!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u644	I think I'm expressing the will of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u645	To withdraw, Mr President! All the orders to ask to withdraw!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u646	I'm saying something else now. Let the conviction be bundled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u647	Tell us exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u648	Mr. Balaura,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u649	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u650	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u651	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express my sympathy for what Mr Kumoucasos has suffered, as well as for what Mr Varvitsiotis has hardly suffered, who has only escaped from the madness of the extreme right trumpets on the field of the Unknown Soldier. It was a few hundred, who of course speculate politically, some who professionally manage people’s memories in an outrageous, trumpetic, fascist manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u652	You feed them, Mr. Friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u653	I would ask you not to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u654	Minister, what you said was brought about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u655	A little respect for at least the ones who beat up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u656	Mr. Cryazides, at least you must apply the order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u657	Yeah, but some issues are...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u658	I'm on my way. How did that happen? Has the Minister of Education triggered it, as has been said, a provocative and outrageous statement? He armed the bullies' hand in this House in fact, in front of them, attacking MPs and shouting slogans "Colders, traitors, politicians" calling me, of course, only as a traitor, but in total, they arrested everyone, apart from the Chrysayites, as traitors and lame politicians?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u659	Whatever you said, exactly!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u660	Don't make your position worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u661	You said that! For five years you have been talking about this!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u662	I would ask that there should be a calm and that the unanimous condemnation of energy to the detriment of fellow Members should not be disturbed by interventions which might be taken to undo this condemnation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u663	That doesn't relieve you. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u664	Mr. Kegeroglu, are we going to have a dialogue now? Please. We're in the House. We're not in Syntagma Square.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u665	It's pain now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u666	Together you were upstairs in the square.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u667	Who's arming the hand of the trumpets? Who were just armed with knives to kill poor people in the center of Athens?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u668	It was your dolls.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u669	Who armed the hand of the Bridge Killer? Who are today continuing to arm the hand of the trumpets?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u670	You did it, Mr. Philly, with your statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u671	It was you. You gave them food.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u672	Hatzidakis, who hit him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u673	It is clear that democracy must not be divided in the face of the threat of neo-fascism, the threat of racism, in front of the tramps, who, although subjective, do not retreat and are here before us and cause democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u674	With the fascism...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u675	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, a little calm and cool. With the rats, do you or with SYRIZA? Take it easy. Decide what you are angry about and interfere where you are. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u676	And it's another proof that what's threatened today isn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u677	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u678	It is impressive that the PASOK MPs break the just-expressed condemnation of Golden Dawn's trabourism against MPs with unadulterated attacks on the government. That's a sad thing. Decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u679	You're lying. You're a slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u680	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u681	In court, you guys.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u682	Get it back! You're lying! Get it back now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u683	You're accountable and continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u684	Take it back and apologize! Take it back and apologize!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u685	Here is the House and all the speakers say their views. Mr. Cassidy, please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u686	Take it back and withdraw now! You don't respect anything! Respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u687	You say what you want. No one forbids you. You won't forbid politicians to speak their opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u688	The major issue, which is being raised today in a way that is fortunately not as much as it could be tragic, but hideous, is a threat to the democratic rights of citizens. We experienced it by pre-confliction, by falsification of opinions that began with the falsification of my opinion about the Pontius Genocide. I asked and replied clearly that as Minister I support and implement the official position of the State for the Genocide of the Greeks of Pontou and that I honor the victims. I honor the people who have fallen victim to crimes of the Turkish atrocity in Pontus and that I respect the pain of today's offspring. That's what I said from the first moment. It is poor and unnecessary to discuss this issue. I asked - and I did not have the initiative - whether I have a different scientific view, not a political one. The political view is clear and it is of the House. I didn't print it now. I referred to an older article of mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u689	Minister, don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u690	You're a moral engineer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u691	What exactly are you seeking, gentlemen? What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u692	And here I am ending, because I respect the suffering suffered by the two New Democracy colleagues, the victims of a intolerance caused not by my own declaration, but by the attempt to use these problems in a small way, by the attempt to revitalise the nationalist speech in our country, the one who plunged our country into the crisis, the one who had registered it and led it to the delay and to a zone of suffering, frustration and lost opportunities. It is clear that in this course of a division of our people, the course of a nationalist rhetoric, which insults the patriotic feelings of Pontius and of all Greeks, these genuine patriotic feelings are offended by the patriotic nationalism, by the ethnic fraud. In these respects and perceptions, the Left Government, but also all the Greeks, it makes sense that we have a duty to be categorically against all the instruments provided for in the Constitution and legislation, with all the means allowed by the democratic ideology. We must be uncompromising, not just in the conviction of small cases, but in the condemnation of the big incident. And the big case is nationalism, the ghost of nationalism, which in some cases also has elements of speculation, politics and others. So, as we have seen now, what is at stake and is threatened today is democracy. And what I lived in the form of pogroms from the televisions, which twisted my statement and showed me that I am against Genocide, while there was a rationale against crimes, regardless of legal determination, which is a scientific issue and has been politically solved by the Greek Parliament. What we have today and which will suffer all the wings in here is this threat to democratic rights. A congressman, who also happens to be a university professor, spoke yesterday about'secrets of scientists'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u693	I did this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u694	Mr Loverdos, who today also accepts the responsibility of what he said yesterday, obviously knows that there are no "scientific sketch". There is a scientific research under the crisis of the scientific community.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u695	You're not a university student. The other one...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u696	Gentlemen of the Democratic Partnership, what passion is this today? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u697	What is at stake today is something else. You want to set limits to scientific research. It won't pass you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u698	Don't cause any more! Is it genocide or not? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u699	Resign!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u700	Mr. Voridis, you wait in second act. Let the Democratic Compact end! You want to be all together? Then I shall apply the Rule of the Rules of Procedure on order!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u701	The threat is against basic democratic rights. And, I repeat, he suffered what was suffered by television tramps from the perversion of our statements, which were clear and before the Greek people. The first element of these statements is respect for the decision of the Greek Parliament on the issue of Genocide. I respect it as Minister, I stressed it and stressed it, regardless of personal views, at scientific level. What we are, unfortunately, judged today is that we are facing a revival of nationalist rhetoric. The fact that the Golden Dawn filed a complaint against me for violating anti-racist law confirms what I'm saying to you. And regardless of the differences we may have between us, it must be a spirit of logic, a spirit of democratic arch in addressing these challenges. [[Heavy controversy between SYRIZA MP, Mr Mitafidis, and the Member of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdou]] It's sad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u702	Mr. Mitafidis, please sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u703	Madam President, this is the one who swears me the worst!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u704	"He here"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u705	Please have a seat! I'll have to interrupt at the expense of the speakers to see what you'll understand from the field atmosphere you're creating! You don't have the floor! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u706	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u707	The speaker's in Step. I don't give the floor to anyone else. You know the Rules of Procedure better than I do. Mercy! Mercy! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u708	I have also heard the argument that the wording of opinions - and I repeat - on an issue of political importance, the wording of different opinions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u709	Mr Balaura, please have a seat. I can enforce the order. We have the Rules of Procedure. We don't need others to mediate. We have speakers, we have a procedure to decide what to do. Please. Please. Calm down! Anyone who can't get out. Finish it, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u710	I'll be done. It has also been argued that the wording of different opinions gives our opponents an argument. It is obvious that this has little to do with an open society, democratic, with a conception of European society, as some people are saying above all that it must be our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u711	You're a front page in Turkish newspapers! You happy about that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u712	I'm not happy about anything, I'm not sorry about anything. I support my country's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u713	But you don't support her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u714	I support the right, when I ask as a person, not to change my mind. I'm not a politician. I'm not one of those who's changing positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u715	So you're continuing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u716	You're on, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u717	I repeat: I support the national position concerning the Genocide of the Pontians, and from there on I am not an arrogant politician to say that I have said nothing in my life. Is it clear what I'm saying? Clean stuff! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I would like to stress one last point: in democracy, a system of suspension of personal opinion does not exist. That's a genocide of opinion. It is a genocide for democracy if we insist that we put our political views on ice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u718	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u719	You may ask me to reconsider, to change my mind. This is another conversation. It's a democratic context. I repeat and conclude: I respect the patriotism of my compatriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u720	Quit and then say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u721	Apologise and resign!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u722	I respect the genuine patriotic feelings and the pain of the Greek Pontians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u723	You put salt on the wound.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u724	I respect the official position of the Greek state and ask you to respect our democratic city, because otherwise I am sorry, but we will have worse results than what you have just seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u725	If you keep this up, we'll have the worst.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u726	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixty-eight students and apprentices and five educational attendants from the 5th Kavalas High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u727	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u728	We have to come to an understanding. There is an tension, which is unjustified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u729	He'll get over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u730	There's a colleague who's been hit. We have asked here for the whole House to agree to express our support and condemnation. Instead, while the Minister speaks, there is a situation which is incomprehensible by the members of the Democratic Partnership.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u731	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u732	What exactly do you want, Mr. Loverdo? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u733	On personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u734	The personal speech, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u735	Do you all have any personal? Excuse me, is there no politics in this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u736	On staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u737	When each one of you speaks politically, does he realize who is insulting? What ideologies does it expose?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u738	Madam President, on personal occasions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u739	If we do everything personally to talk to each other, we'll never finish. Please. Please. Mr Theocharis has asked for the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u740	No, no! Staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u741	No, here's the staff to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u742	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u743	Mr. Panayotus, he has asked for the floor before you. You two will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u744	Here's the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u745	Mr Panayotaros asked for the floor after Mr. Theocharis. You'll get the floor later. Everyone sit down and be quiet, calm. We have witnesses, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u746	We're being watched by young people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u747	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u748	Here's the staff. A very clear report has been made...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u749	This is a parliament. There is freedom of expression whether we understand it or not. When you get the floor, you'll say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u750	Madam President, the staff are ahead of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u751	This is a slander against our party and we must respond now. It is our party's response that precedes it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u752	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u753	Wait a minute. Half the House is exalting us. The answer to the slander is ahead. We must respond and then anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u754	Mr. Panayotarus will speak after Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u755	We have been slandered and attacked and our representative must respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u756	If, after every speech you have made, Mr Cassidy, anyone who is creeping around with what you say, we would do nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u757	Our representative will now speak to respond, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. That's our right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u758	Mr President, take over the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u759	Sit down. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u760	The reason for this must be given to our representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u761	Personnel first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u762	You had us in prison, you slandered us. The reason for giving the spokesman of the Golden Dawn!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u763	I found it here marked by Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u764	Let's get this over with. Give us the floor. The reason must be given to the representative of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u765	Mr. Theocharis asked for the floor before you. Calm down, no one takes your third place. You're third! Have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u766	These ironies in your party!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u767	The irony of the Afghans and Pakistanis. Ironies, not us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u768	Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u769	But you're ironic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u770	Madam President, will you close my time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u771	Madam President, our parliamentary representative will speak in his turn. Now on personal grounds, I ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u772	Then. Now he's the speaker at Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u773	No, no, that's not it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u774	Then, Mr. Loverdo. There's no staff. Here we were all here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u775	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u776	Please! Help restore tranquility, Mr. Loverdos, which you have disturbed personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u777	No, you're not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u778	Have I disturbed her? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u779	We'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u780	Mr. Comrade, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u781	No, Mr. Theochari. The staff have to respect it yourself. Staff first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u782	Madam President, what can I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u783	The Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u784	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u785	No, it's personal and serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u786	I can't talk to my colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u787	I'm asking for your respect. You're not giving him to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u788	Mr. Loverdo, what exactly do you want? What personal? What's it to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u789	You're not listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u790	Anybody gonna invent staff to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u791	You don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u792	What do I care about your staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u793	Don't you care?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u794	Do I want to censor you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u795	You're protecting us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u796	So speak for two minutes, let's hear your staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u797	One minute is the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u798	I need a minute, thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u799	So say it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u800	We also called upon our Parliamentary representative, Mr Theocharopoulos, to say that we agree, unanimously, with the condemnation as expressed by Mr Bordenos, before you, that Mr Kumucasakou should be beaten by tramps. However, the Minister for Education has taken the floor, obviously in order to find an alibi to these facts, and he has said his views. They have indeed caused a reaction from the House and what you have seen from the President's seat. However, while this was the case, a colleague from the majority, probably respecting his own struggles - which we too respect, because we know him - addressed us in a way that was unworthy of Parliament. We ask him - I do not want to repeat - to apologise with a phrase - even out of the Minutes - and this is an end to us. If it does not, then, Madam President, it goes beyond two-minutes of my speech and will hinder the process. We don't want it. We ask him, even out of the Minutes, to apologize to us and it ends for us. He spoke to us in a way that is inconsistent with Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u801	All right, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Theocharis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u802	Madam President, we will now speak too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u803	No, Madam President, he must apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u804	Mr. Loverdo,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u805	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u806	Say an apology and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u807	Mr Loverdo, you are talking about something that the Chamber has not understood and much more the President. So please! I can't help you with what you're asking. Neither do you name the colleague nor anything else you say. It can't be done! This is not a question that we can resolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u808	After my colleague's apologies for us, this is an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u809	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u810	We'll talk for a minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u811	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u812	No, Madam President, now we will talk about our staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u813	Now I'll take it personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u814	And I'm not going to talk about illness, I'm going to talk about personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u815	Stop listening to what you're saying. Mr. Loverdos spoke on staff of an insult that he received from a colleague in the Chamber. Did you accept anything from someone in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u816	Yes, Madam President. You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u817	The bored man was presided over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u818	Madam President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u819	By whom, Mr. Panayotas? I don't understand. These things can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u820	I'm asking for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u821	All right, take the floor for a minute, see what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u822	Thank you very much, Madam President. It was heard by Mr Kumucako that the ones who trampled him were golden. The Golden Dawn condemns, like all other political parties, any acts of violence against both Mr Kumucaku and anyone else. But it cannot be said that Mr Kumoucasakos was golden. Get it back! One of this. Secondly, the Minister, Mr Philis, for a quarter instead of speaking of the enormous problems he created in his statement, in honor of not taking it back, but he should resign because he is the Minister of the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u823	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u824	Not to devour the Golden Dawn for 15 minutes. Because it is ironic that Mr. Friends, with his statement, who has made fires and is headlines throughout Turkey...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u825	Okay, that's political. Have you heard what you say every time, Mr. Panayotare? Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u826	They will use it tomorrow, Madam President. When we ask everyone to internationalize and recognize the Pontius Genocide, we'll see Mr. Friend's statements sticking to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u827	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u828	Revocation of Mr. Koumoucascus! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u829	You've got eight minutes, Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u830	Madam President, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u831	Madam President, Mr Kumoutsakos is asking for the floor on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u832	Would you like to withdraw, Mr. Theochari?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u833	I still didn't say anything to call it off! Then I'll call back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u834	Mr. Kumucaco, I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u835	I ask for the floor on personal grounds, Madam President. I have heard what has been said from the side of the country's extreme racist and intolerance political power...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u836	The New Democracy is unimportant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u837	So I want to tell you, because I was there, that both the phrases and the practices and the fact that next to this group that started the violence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u838	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u839	...one minute ago the Congressman, Mr. Gregos, was with them, whom I saw, make me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u840	To withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u841	What's he saying now? You're slanderers! It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u842	You don't respect anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u843	The man doesn't know what he's saying! Liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u844	Get it back and apologize!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u845	Well, I'll have to take action. Gentlemen, stop right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u846	You're a liar! Get it back! Rescind! We don't tolerate insults from anyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u847	Please stop yelling. Carry on, Mr. Kumucaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u848	They gave me the opportunity to say what I said in my prototype. I'm not used to lying. I never did it, and I never did it this time either.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u849	You're doing it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u850	Having just said this, Madam President, I would like to reiterate, with my firmest conviction, that the hands of violence are armed with provocative statements such as those made by the Minister, who must decide when he is a citizen - scientist and when he is a minister. He's a moral author of these violence. From there on, it is the Golden Dawn that permanently cultivates practice and the reason for violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u851	Immediately withdrew! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u852	I think it's time Mr. Theocharis spoke. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u853	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must do my own self-criticism. I've accused you so many times that you don't have a plan. You have a plan. That's true. The plan is now obvious, i.e. rosétes, day-to-day recruitment and orders from outside, because every good plan needs three pillars. Not to say that I lie to you, because I am not like you, Pinocchio - you are government - "Pinocchio" Ministers - "Pinocio" and the Prime Minister - let us look at some examples of this bill. With the Education Ministry's amendment you give the ruffles, the first pillar. You give the Secretary-General powers for supplies perpendicular to them. We call for a concentration of supplies in order to reduce corruption and problems, and you are also'spraying' within the ministries, rather than gathering them between the ministries. You're pro-corruption. Mr. Papagelopoulos said this morning that the maritime loans of the Agricultural Bank have been filed. A SYRIZA government is filed. The biggest scandal is being filed with you to the government. Of course, it's not your law. The law is of the New Democracy. That's why it's being filed. The law is in force today. To bring us the amendments - express requests from outside, you know. So please repeal the law that puts these cases in the file. Otherwise it's your law. It's not a law of those who voted for him. It's also a law of those who know what he's doing and let him go. So change it, otherwise we too will have the right to say 'corrupted' to you. As far as ruffles are concerned, I will give you another example. With Article 57 you are giving an extension to auctions, because the system in the EBRD is not ready to put the auctions online so that there are no circuits and some more money to print the auctions. Who? In the papers? There is at the moment when we are also talking about HICP with an active auction site and the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which has made a site for my day. Tomorrow, if you want, you can put the auctions there temporarily, so there can be publicity. That's what you need to do, if you don't want to make ruffles. But you do. Another example is the Mansion. The Mansion for you was the worst scandal of all times and it is the second time - one with your previous government and one now - that you have an arrangement not to need insurance or tax information. Tell it to a back doorman, to a free professional who keeps him and doesn't let him work. If you really want, bring together the resolution of the OMMA, the plan that exalts it and not extensions of the administration. Mr Xydakis, then Minister for Culture, promised it. Where's that plan? Why does it not resign, at the same time that it takes a second time to come to such an amendment? Why is he staying in his place? Is that your efficiency? Oh, no. That's the inability. As far as recruitment is concerned, Mr Paulakis is bringing us an amendment to put his own children in hospitals. Shame on you! Isn't there a shame?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u854	What are you talking about? Is that what he brought? You've got the wrong idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u855	That's what he brought to have his own kids. There is a way of changing administrations. There's the physicist and the lawful one. But you also speak of dignity. I've heard Mr. Skourletis talking about dignity before. The Minister has not yet condemned the attack on university evals. When do we wait for him to be convicted? Destruction, therefore, in tertiary education with such cultures Balta, destruction in primary and secondary education with most gaps from the payment of the Greek state, destruction and support and private education with the pointless forwards - back of VAT to 23%. Good thing you've found - if you've found it! - equivalent to what we have said in the amendment we have tabled, in one of the three points that we have told you to find equivalent. To understand what it means to be responsible for opposition. Because you do not have a problem with the 'Reformation'. Even now that you're in government, you're in opposition! In the'responsible' you have a problem. You've never been responsible! So the OPAP saved you. Do you want to say what you've done with the OPCW these seven, eight, nine months you've been ruling? In the process of privatisation 500,000 000 were granted for the gaming industry, the so-called VLTs. This investment has not started at all. Do you know why? For arbitraryly Mr Varoufakis, with one of these amendments with which you are constantly changing administrations, has changed the administration of the Committee on Games. The new chairman of the committee - who opposes VLTs - has arbitrarily changed the conditions under which one can function. So this investment doesn't go any further. Do you know how much we lose? The budget is $230,000! We're losing up - under 250 million a year! It is created in the 750,000,000-dollar program in the three years running the program. And if, because you've canceled the investment, the OPAP goes and asks for the 500,000,000 privatization and won it, a new hole of 1.250,000 is created! Who's gonna be called to take this money? Who's gonna pay for it? That's what I'm closing down from outside. Even for the equivalents you never thought of beef, because you were ordered by Mr. Dezir. We've been through this before. Because the OPAP doesn't get paid by Frenchmen. Otherwise, he would have ordered us not to put tax on the OPCW. The most interesting thing, of course, is that Article 52 is coming back to beer. That's how we see! You've lost the committee, but you're bringing it back. So you're proud of the tax you're going to put back into Greek small and medium-sized enterprises? From all the toolbox that we started? Dutch and Danish interests arm your hand? Ladies and gentlemen, none of us can help this disaster, at least as you build your status. At least we can't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u856	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr Panayotus, would you like the floor as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u857	Yes, Madam President, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u858	Here, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u859	Madam President, won't we Members talk sometimes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u860	You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Dimitras. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u861	Okay. But there is also a look at the Members!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u862	Half an hour, we ate it at the evacuation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u863	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to start by commenting on what Mr Kumucasos said, who indirectly admitted that it had nothing to do with Golden Dawn, because he was telling us about truths, practices and other things. Reminding what New Democracy has done in the recent past, which is a patriot. Let's remind Mrs.Reposi's book, which was to be taught in schools in New Democracy and which was talking about aggregation on the waterfront of Izmir Mirasiates, Pontius and other Greeks by the "friends" and merciful Turks! Because that's what this is about! And let's not forget that Mrs. Reposi just came out yesterday to support what Mr. Friend said. Remind New Democracy what Mr Varvitsiotis had said very recently when they were burning Greek flags and justified and said that a piece of flag is, a piece of cloth. It's nothing tragic. To remind the New Democracy, where the patriodocaust has done it a normal job, the inauguration of the Kemal Ataturk Museum in his false home, which was not even the home that was born, where Gerontopoulos attended, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the New Democracy, to understand that some citizens may not have a weak memory and therefore not throw it all at Golden Dawn. Mr Philis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, expresses the official position of SYRIZA. He just said it a few minutes ago and doesn't change it, and that's to his honor. However, the fact that SYRIZA's official position is an anti-national position, which they are trying to convince us in every way that there is no Pontic Genocide and says 'Others I must say as Minister and others as a person'. But this should have led him to resignation and as a private person to say what he wants. Because, as Minister of Education, it has specific positions and opinions beyond the graduation within the Greek Parliament or the television stations within the Greek territory, what has happened - and it has been a huge success for Turkey with the help of Mr Friend, I repeat it for those who do not understand it - is that tomorrow, tomorrow, when a national government wants to internationalise the problem of the Pontian Genocide and will want to recognise it by international organisations and other countries, the Turks will come to us and they will "fruit in the face" the statements of Mr Phile, the Minister of Education of the Greek State, not the statements of a private person. If you look at the Granwolves phrase, it is not at all the same as Mr Amanatidis's friend, Mr Amanatidis, who SYRIZA officially justified his friend and SYRIZA MPs. Let us not forget, too, that much has recently been removed from the curriculum of the 3th High School History. Why? Is it bothering? Looks like it's really annoying, and if you see what they're bringing to considerate and taught matter, it's actually for laughter, it's also for crying, and it's definitely for garbage. Madam President, you spoke before about irony, referring to various within the Greek Parliament. If you want to talk about irony, Madam President, we can talk. As ironically it is to be the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs someone who is both an atheist and a dense patron, and all he doesn't care about, after all, is the problems of his ministry. From a hundred questions that have been put now and which concern the Ministry of Education, most of them remain unanswered, because very simply he has no answer to give, because you don't know what is happening to you. By the end of the day, but your programmes were the election campaigns, but you were telling the world, and now call for a number of reasons to do the opposite. Your old election promises, that is ironic, Madam President, tragic irony! What should we want to do first? HNVIA, the debt audit, the deletion of most of the debt, the mortgage loan, which in the end only we "bad fascists" insist and say that it must be directly required to enter the state's budget as income, but which all of you have done and turn through the engagement. What can we talk about? For your charity policy? Until first, you were talking about a minimum pension and a minimum salary of EUR 751 and now, with the signatures you have in the bills you bring either by joint ministerial decisions or in various other ways that you have drawn up to a precedent, everything shows that wages and pensions will reach EUR 300-400 and officially. Because this is unofficially happening in the street, gentlemen of the government. Go and find out how much they don't give for rotating work, but for five-day and eight-hour work and you'll hear something numbers that Bulgaria's wages will look great in front of what's happening in our homeland, to understand what's going on. It seems ironic that the Independent Greeks, a patriotic party that breaks through its clothes for what is happening in the patriotic matters, are also fighting against the Greeks. Who would forget Mr Kammenos who cried and said before the referendum: 'No reduction in military personnel in the National Defence'. And after the referendum, with the third memorandum, she voted for the biggest wage cuts, pensions, defence funds that have ever been made. The National Defence Fund that had a budget of more than 700m euros a year, currently has less than 200m euros and has to reach the active chief of GFS and say that we cannot accept those who cut off their deferral, because we do not have to feed them, nor clothes to wear. We saw the phenomenals, the sad, the terrible incidents, where the new policemen don't wear the blue police uniform but green, because that was an opportunity. They were the only uniforms left, those farmkeepers. We are talking about signs and monsters that are happening in Greek society, which justify what the President said about irony. As for this bill, here to see irony. To come up with an article to give tax and insurance information to the Congregation of Music for once, when you yourselves were beating on the benches here, when the New Democracy brought these articles or amendments to a card. But for the free professionals nothing at all. Bring yourself, the 'first time left', the tripling of taxation on agricultural oil, which is the main weapon for the farmer, in order to do anything. We also saw the battle of beer, where the Independent Greeks were unable to cut defensive expenditure as co-pilots, they were unable to get the illegal plan, where all those who come to our country would take citizenship, could not keep any red line. He finally kept the red beer line. But it seems that, rather late in the evening, it will come through the back door - we do not yet know how - because it is, it tells the OECD's prerequisites, and that, in the toolbox, taxation on the substance of a company, not to say what we want. We are talking about the Vergin beer, to say some things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, may I, if you like, for a minute. Thanks, 'cause the bell's annoying. Because the beer "VERGINA" and its owner, who spit out blood to set up this operation, in a vicious cycle of bureaucratic obstacles that put the Greek state - not only the Greek state but also some multinationals - managed to set up a business, sell the beer not only in Greece, but at all the lengths and backs of the earth and advertise our country as well. You see that name, 'Vergina', perhaps makes a more constructive foreign policy than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does on the issue of Skopje, where the Skopje have now fled. They call themselves "Mega Alexandros" their archaeological museum, which has horn patterns in it, because they really can't have anything. Their national road, which was built with funds from the European Union, is therefore called "The Great Alexander Avenue". Every 100 meters they have signs that you and we have paid them and they say: "Get to Alexander the Great Avenue!" Money of ours! And then you talk to me about foreign policy? These are ironic. The airport of Skopje is called "MEGAS ALEXANDROS", statues exist, etc. And you were disturbed by the beer "BERGINA"? Well, the beer "BERGINA" will continue to sell and grow for various reasons. And this article, if you bring it, will not pass. Remember that! You have also flammed us in the amendments. We can't make it. No one's in time. They come at a rate of storming. There are two - three amendments that are of real interest, which, when the time comes, we will tell you what we are voting for, what we say 'no' and what we say 'no'. On the substance of the matter, you are using the excuse - and the previous ones have done so, so that they do not take their tail off the ground now - that they are prerequisites and we must vote on them. It's not all prerequisites. Too much goes through the back door for various reasons suspects, as are suspected and ironically what is happening in this society. To conclude, I would remind you that the Golden Dawn has always condemned any acts of violence, from wherever they came, which others did not. Let us not forget that five days ago it was the anniversary of the murder of two young chrysalis, who were murdered two years ago by "left" terrorists. And even the President of the Republic did not send a letter of condolence, the parties did it arrogance and no one did anything at all. Don't talk about the other day that was a two-year anniversary. Word! Nothing at all! That's who you are, and it's too bad for everyone! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u864	Mr. Shahinides has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u865	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mr Balaura, who has previously asked for information on the fact that he took place outside in the Constitution Square. Because no one gave him the lights, and because I have the honour of being one of those who has sued the Minister of Education, I will tell you exactly what happened. Fortunately, at the moment by some wings and other parties there are other Members present, who will confirm that the Golden Dawn instigated the incident mentioned before Mr Koumoutsako, who should be ashamed of lying in the Greek Parliament. Witnesses? Ask the Member here in front - I'm sorry, I don't know your name - from Imathia, ask the Member at the last seat of the Central Association, ask Mr. Michelogannakis, who was present. And I ask Mr Koumoutsako: What is the reason, who, by big, thinks that he is in New Democracy to target him in the Golden Dawn and make incidents against him? We were at the very first moment, not in the capacity of the MP, but as ordinary Greek citizens, who came down to protest. What I'm telling you is that I'm now asking these Members I told you to say - because they saw where we, the Golden Dawn MPs - were - if we moved the incidents. As regards the Minister who left, I will say: Mr Voridis said earlier that the anointed people tell us that 'better you leave Vima than to speak'. I will say to Mr Philly, 'better to chew than to speak'. And unfortunately, the Minister is very chewing and speaking! The Minister spoke of a distortion. The only distortion in this Chamber inside is the presence of the same Minister, who, in his statement, managed to create the climate you see outside the Greek Parliament. Mr. Phil, the black one - because you referred to this as well, and because you're completely unbelievable - is the color of the Moles. And the traditional uniforms they wear and the T-shirts with Pontou's one-headed eagle have black color. But, apart from insurmountable - I couldn't describe you any differently, I respect the space in here - you need to learn some things before you go up to this Step and talk as a scientist. I, at least, admit that I am not a scientist, because - if you want to speak scientifically - I would speak differently. I know how to speak, too, Minister, scientifically. Since when does a journalist have a scientific viewpoint? And scientifically how would you like, gentlemen of the Greek Parliament, if we, even one of our members or Members of the Golden Dawn, question any other genocide of any other state? Would you have reacted the same you on the Left? We do not say that all the left-wings are atheists and nationalists, but, unfortunately, all the atheists in this country and the nationalists are left-wing. But let's get through to the bill. In today's draft law by the Ministry of Environment and Energy on energy efficiency, the amendment or the abolition of directives and the adaptation to European Union directives, there is unfortunately no mention or provision for the compulsory installation of photovoltaic units in all public buildings as well as in buildings in the OTA. Think of the multiple benefits that could result from the installation of these units, the economic benefits - we are talking about the electricity that would not be burned - environmental, spatial, as well as the resolution of the bureaucratic issues that would be solved if photovoltaic plants were installed. So this is the proposal that the Golden Dawn has to make in terms of today's draft law. Article 28, arrangements for the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas: It refers to the programme of specific metropolitan interventions for Attica. In particular, in the urban reconstruction of development on the coastal front of the five hundred acres, as Golden Dawn, we consider that there is indeed a positive intention to renovate, promote and create green spaces within the urban fabric, which of course will enhance the quality of life of the inhabitants, but because it is not clear what investments will be made and, because of lack of information, we will vote against this article. Article 20 provides for arrangements for professional farmers - energy producers. We fully agree with the extension of these declarations, because they relate to compensation for farmers producing electricity. However, we will be voting 'at present' because we believe that it is too short a period of two months which is given as an extension and should, of course, be longer. In Article 51 on financial and structural arrangements, you are asking for an increase in the rate of excise duty on oil from EUR 66 to EUR 200 next year at 330. As you know, this oil is used exclusively in the agricultural production process. You are talking about growth while you are destroying the primary production sector. The consequences of this abolition are well aware that it will be the increase in the cost of production of agricultural products and you know very well what this will result from. It will make them uncompetitive on the markets, and all of this, together with what will follow with the tax-insurance, will make the exercise of agricultural activity forbidden. Where will the armies of the unemployed farmers be absorbed? How many empty secretaries do you have in your Ministries to restore the unemployed farmers of SYRIZA? In conclusion, I shall pass on to Rule 53, Amendment - replacement of provisions of the n. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a Council Directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. They're going to the General Income Secretariat. What's actually going on? This Special Secretariat is hereby repealed, at the risk of the limitation of economic crimes which, by reason of the occurrence, will be retained. We have heard several times in this Chamber talking about the Lagard list. Tell the Greek people that it wasn't a Lagard list, it was eight, not to say any more. Let us know exactly where the check has been made on these lists. Finally, let us know whether even a euro has been collected from the fines you have imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u866	I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Alexiadis, to some sort of legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u867	We are bringing a legislative improvement to the amendment tabled today by a general number of 38 and a special number of 24. With this legislative improvement, we are creating a protection shield for the control mechanisms against unnecessary civil or criminal proceedings that are directed against them and problems with limitations, because in any case, the limitation has been postponed for a year. It is a matter that protects and shields the control mechanisms and we put it in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u868	I would ask you to distribute the legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u869	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u870	Do you want the floor as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u871	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u872	Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u873	Madam President, you will actually allow me to make a statement on the events that have taken place, and then, if necessary by the end of the procedure, I will be able to make a statement if new issues arise. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, fascists who have taken advantage of the justified mobilisation of the Pontius against the unscrupulous and provocative statements made by the Minister, Mr Philadelphia, have attacked, betrayed and hit the New Democracy MP, Georgios Koumoutsakos. He is a man who, as a diplomat, has served, played and devoted for many years to supporting the rights of Molecular Hellenism, but not only as a diplomat and as a MP, in defending our national interests of all Hellenism. Trumps were also attempted to hit the New Democracy MP, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. We strongly condemn these trumpets and their violence, and call on all the political forces to do the same, beyond the unanimous decision of all the MPs we took just now - the condemnation - but also their own parties with announcements. We call on the Greek Police to proceed immediately to the arrest and referral of the perpetrators and to lead them to Greek justice. This must be done immediately and I am addressing the government. Finally, we call on the government and the ministers who fuel these fascistoids to recover, withdraw the insults they have launched against the Polish Hellenism. With regard to the amendment by the Deputy Minister of Finance on education and VAT, I will now repeat, Minister, that there is this amendment that cancels the fines - which we welcome - and you change the dates so that they can be adapted to the new data of the delay in the finalisation of VAT as you say, which is also correct and we agree. However, while this amendment remains and there is no other provision to change 23% of VAT on education, it is actually confirmed by second legislative intervention that VAT on education is 23%, because the provision contained in the amendment does not speak and says nothing about the main VAT rate of 23%. I say this to the Members, in particular, of the Co-Population, to consult each other, to know on many occasions what we are voting on, what we say and what is contained in the amendments which are indeed scientifically qualified, cannot and does not have to know exactly what each Member is involved. That is why, Minister, we see this amendment with great reservation, even though we see the two sides in the right direction. But basically it confirms the 23% stay in education, which the New Democracy was vertically opposite from the outset, when you even brought in August to pass the law, and we warned you that it would create a turmoil, that will cause problems and that is a great injustice for hundreds of thousands of people. I recall - because this is very important - that the Prime Minister himself committed himself to the Greek people that immediately after the elections 23% of VAT on education will be abolished. And today it has been over a month and a half and not only has this been undone, but it is also coming to be confirmed by the amendment for the second time. We in the New Democracy are making a point of responsibility for you, even at this very last moment. We have tabled an amendment through our President, Vangelis Meimarakis, and indeed for the increased validity of the amendment, all Members of the New Democracy signed. With this amendment, which we ask you to vote on, we come to claim the self-evident, what the Prime Minister has promised in an election, the abolition of 23% VAT on education. I hear the story about the great immaculate equivalents, the famous parallel program, which was pre-electionally the rhetoric of SYRIZA. It was the story you politically won and the elections. Wherever I was, not only me, the Members of the New Democracy, but also all the parties in this House, were facing the same challenge. ‘It can't be. Mr Tsipras' left-wing government will keep her word today. He didn't keep him in January, he didn't keep him in the referendum. Hey, what the hell? Now there will be immaterial equivalents.’ And when we smiling very simply, "Where will they be found?" They responded 'but they are in front of you and you, gentlemen of the New Democracy or the other parties'. Where were the equivalents finally hidden? He was on the Lagard list, he was in smuggling and tax evasion. I as a Member of Parliament today, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, ask the Deputy Minister of Finance, after ten months of ruling - there is no alibi anymore, because you are ten months of government - how much money you received from the Lagard list. How much money is there in your forecast by the end of the year? Tell me how much money you got from smuggling and how much from tax evasion. A rough estimate speaks for over 5 billion. That was your election announcement. Right away. This is the step of Parliament, Madam President. The previous Minister against Corruption - who is unexplained why he did not enter the new government - said "2.5 billion is warmly next month". That's the equivalent. Shouldn't anyone apologize to the government and say 'children, we made wrong assessments, did we not do it' and there was an apology? An apologies to the Greek people, an apologies to the hundreds of thousands who will suffer 23% of education, to the farmers who will receive 26% of taxation, to the islanders, my patriots, who have lost the great advantage of reduced VAT in the Aegean. It was a comparative advantage that Constantine Karamanlis had given, when the country entered the EEC, and they lose it all the Aegean islands. You delivered him to a gift pack of VAT in the Aegean Sea. For all this, Madam President, we have serious objections. We are following the parliamentary procedure, for which we are very critical. It's a humiliation. Today we are voting on a bill, on Monday's eve, which is an important Eurogroup meeting. We ask the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Government to answer the VAT of education. Why do you not vote for the New Democracy amendment? Why don't you make use of the equivalents we have proposed after ten months? For all these reasons, I will be following the procedure until the end of the day and the New Democracy awaiting the government's answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u874	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u875	You want to answer something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u876	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u877	You're welcome. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u878	Very soon. I respect Mr Brutsi's tax knowledge. The service of both of us at the Treasury leaves squirrel in these matters. But tax knowledge and other political issues. At the moment, the government does not bring an amendment to abolish 23% in education. The amendment aims to regulate the extensions legally and to delete the fines they have found. In the next few years, we will bring a provision for 23% in education. In other matters, questions about the Lagard list and all these issues, what has been requested of me will be submitted to the House, I will testify when the time comes to speak and the 100-dose table you requested. All this will be submitted and answered. What remains a question is to tell us PASOK, New Democracy and Potami what they did, when they were in the government, on these issues. That's why we're still waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u879	The river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u880	The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, has the floor now. Mrs. Generation, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u881	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that this House is discussing today is another demonstration of the curiosity and inadequacy of the SYRIZA Government - Independent Greeks in the crucial theme of negotiations with partners. The MPs of the Democratic Integration with their initiatives and interventions have highlighted the governmental album that is embodied in this bill as well. In addition to Rule 1, which Members are invited to take back a provision on insurance, which was passed 15 days ago, we have already presented detailed and documented why we say 'no' to the new burden on the oil of the farmers, on the parties to the service councils in the field of education. We ask, Minister, that this provision be withdrawn. We say 'no' to the exterior taxation of small Greek beer producers. Of course, we say 'no' to limit the powers of self-government for waste management. At the same time, we have tabled amendments on particularly important issues for the citizens and we call on you to support them in order to stop the anguish of thousands of Greek families. VAT should not be levied on education and should not be increased to the care units of the elderly. Let the government finally stop this little kitty of the equivalents, which ultimately makes her ridiculous. In order to introduce a farm oil card, you have a responsibility to find a solution now that is transparently supported by agricultural production and, of course, to return to EUR 1500 the misappropriation of wages, pensions and benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express our deep concern at the absence so far of any provision for red loans, even though it goes on, and we supported the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks. It is now known that for all other things, Mr Tsipras has said as opposition and others are doing as Prime Minister. On this issue, however, there should not be a single step behind the regulations that the PASOK governments had achieved to protect poor and medium-sized households. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 3869/2010, which imposed the protection of highly indebted households, is the law of PASOK and SYRIZA voted against him then denounced him. The rules on the protection of first residence were in force until December 2014. Now SYRIZA must ensure that they continue to implement them. It is not possible for citizens who have experienced the crisis and who are really unable to respond to their loans to live under the state of anxiety not to be undone from one moment to the next. And the partners must understand this very well and stop insisting on proposals that increase this insecurity. I raised this issue with particular emphasis at my meeting with Mr Schultz and Mr Moscovisi. However, the process of recapitalisation of the banks has also raised another important issue: the need for a rapid solution to the issue of red enterprise loans, particularly those relating to small and medium-sized enterprises, a question that is directly linked to the prospects for growth and employment in our country. For ten months the government has promised and announced solutions. But the nipple is drowning more and more. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government - Independent Greeks today shows completely locked in its memorandum, while immediate priority is a new national, development and productive shock, which will give impetus to productive forces, will bring investment and create jobs. But that seems to be not particularly concerned with the government. Farmers are being threatened with overtaxation, which will be an exaggerating factor in the productive reconstruction of the primary sector. Our tourism is burdened with three parallel increases in VAT, hotels, catering and the islands. The capital controls in the banks will remain for many more months and the recapitalisation will not solve the financing problem of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is no longer the case. The country needs investment in Greek and foreign, from the use of the NRP resources, from the implementation of new financial instruments, together with real progressive reforms, strengthening competitiveness and the cultivation of investment climate. Unfortunately, none of this is seen in the horizon. The government cannot overcome ideas and dogmas aimed at every business, which is the result of total immobilization today. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the role of the Ministry of Development has been taken over by the Council of State. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We lost in 2015. We don't have the luxury to lose in 2016. Let us at least make sure that we prepare ourselves with concrete projects, with innovative proposals for the use of the Structural Funds, the so-called 'Yunker package 2014', which, under conditions, can prove a very great opportunity for Greece. And a few more points: Our universities have the opportunity to make an active contribution to development effort. But that will not happen as long as we tolerate behaviour that is violently inhibiting their normal functioning and evaluation. Higher institutions cannot be a field of arbitraryness and trabuccalism for different groups. Finally let us agree on this in this Chamber. Mr. Friends has a great deal to do at the Ministry of Education, rather than go into politically naive and nationally dangerous statements. Of course, we strongly condemn the attack against members of the Greek Parliament today by few extreme right-wing members who have nothing to do with Pontian Hellenism. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mr Philis, who has also prompted him to condemn them, should he consider: who is feeding the division and giving rise to extreme right-wing logic? The Parliament in 1994, at the initiative of Andreas Papandreou, issued an institutional recognition of the Genocide of the Pontius.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u882	Homos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u883	Mr. Philis is Minister of the Greek Government and is bound by the decisions of the Greek state, which he must respect and not harm national interests. At the same time, the Prime Minister is reluctant to follow him. Let him take a look at the Turkish newspapers, to understand the exploitation and damage that is being done ahead of his visit. To close - one minute, Madam President - I want to make a brief reference to the big issue of refugee. It's time to stop mourning human lives. This also requires decisive action and intervention by the international community and the European Union. I have informed the Government, the European Commission and the European Parliament of the ten specific proposals we have put forward. Amongst these, of course, are also the need for emergency funding for the country, in order to meet the responsibilities it has to assume, but also a number of support policies for local communities and economies on our islands. At the same time we stressed that it is time to set up the main recording centres in Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan. That is the only way to solve the problem. I suggested that they should start their implementation from the most vulnerable units. No child and no pregnant woman should return to the boats of death. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We will bring this proposal through the Eurogroup of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament. The solidarity shown by the ordinary Greek citizens honors our country and our culture. However, we must not forget that some are prisoners of tension, xenophobia and racism. It is not the refugees who are rivals of our people. The opposition is the fascists with their unacceptable perceptions, who exploit the absence of the state. And, unfortunately, the absence of the state has been screaming in the past few months. The Democratic Alliance will defend European and Greek humanitarian values. Greece needs stability and security in an environment of solidarity and humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u884	The President of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Vassilis Leventis, has requested the floor. Of course, they haven't spoken for too long Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u885	Madam President, can I just say a word about the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u886	There are no procedures. That's what the Rules of Procedure say, Mr. Dimitras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u887	How are they not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u888	It's common to speak two speakers and then one...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u889	Do you want to make it easier, Mr. Leventis? This is in the context of good practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u890	Okay, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u891	Thank you very much. Mr Iason Fotillas has the floor, which he has already asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u892	Madam President, I was called by the previous President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u893	He had called you by mistake. Come on, Mr. Lightla, it's your turn. Then there's Mrs. Iglezi. You, Mr. Deiaras, are next.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u894	Thank you, Madam President. And in any case, thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, another bill on the prerequisites of the third memorandum by the Tsipras - Kammenos government. This debate, of course, does not take place in a vacant capacity. The frustration that the government has sown with the unbearable overtaxation of citizens is evident in society, even in the faces of the voters of SYRIZA. For SYRIZA voters, author Christos Homenides wrote an excellent article two days ago. I'm reading you a quote: "From those who have trusted that another road, without a memoir, without an EVIA, with a resurrected wages and pensions, is immediately possible, as long as the magic paper is thrown into the poll, the ignorant voters of SYRIZA are the most tragic faces of history." As if that were not enough, little criticism from the government is being heard about what he said in the election. Is it true, Mr Skourletis - has Mr Skourletis left - that you are thinking of apologizing for the civil war that you have caused among the people of Halkidiki for the investment in their area, now that the Council of State seems to be giving them a definitive right again? What are you going to tell the thousands of workers in the region if they are definitively entitled to the cuts that have been lost due to your election pheasant idea of suspending the work to get your election client to vote for you? Really, what investor would invest in our country, following your disastrous policy? In addition, we also see ministers such as Mr Phile, on television, who, instead of being more humble about his unacceptable statements about VAT pennies, VAT 23% and looking for consensus solutions, turns into a judge of history. But you, Mr Philly, and your party called the Memorandumic Policy 'genocide', by rushing words, logic and poisoning society, by bringing citizens into conflict. You are now applying it and begging for graceful regulations because of the refugee. Hypocrites and ammonias! From his position the Minister of Education has completely destroyed what remains at all levels. There are gaps in schools, in general and in special treatment. Especially for the latter, it is disgraceful that the abandonment of the LEADER was abandoned, because this is where you made promises with the bunker. In Achaea most schools do not have infrastructures to accept children or teachers with disabilities. It launders the law of Diamantopoulou and appoints party subordinates to education. That is why I will judge Mr Philadelphia and I will not make my flag, colleagues of the New Democracy, sensitive national issues, which cannot be debated with outbursts and pretexts, as unfortunately you have attempted to make forty-five of you. Ethnicism, after all, is the fertilizer of the soil on which politicians and professional patriots, whose victim today was Mr Kumucaskos, who has the support of all of us. On this bill, I could mention a great deal, for sloppy, sloppy, ambiguity of provisions. Some are indeed in a positive direction, others are negative and for some of them you had voted differently a few months ago. Your bills! You continue, Minister, to close the eye on the debts of the Concert Hall of Music with the second graceful extension you give. I present for the Minutes of the House the announcements of the SYRIZA Culture Committee on the same subject in December 2014, as well as the former Minister of Culture Mr. Xydakis in February 2015, which highlight the size of your hypocrisy. In a few months, you stinking assholes! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, introduce unrealistic provisions for the area of Keratini and Drapetsonas, stepping on real needs of the local residents for a better future for them and their children. It is obvious that the Prime Minister's agonizing attempt to change the tax raid agenda in a micropolitical way. I'm going to talk about the field of education, because you're bringing in the relevant legislation. It is firstly positive that the introduction to the HEIs, which are distinguished into student Olympians, is envisaged. And we welcome the fact that with "SYRIZA II" excellence is now being rewarded and ceased to be reciprocity. I would like to insist on the two amendments we tabled on education - the first concerns VAT equivalents and the second concerns the choice of training officials - because they also show the government's policy in contrast to the way we are in the river. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to give ears and suggest good equivalents, which do not exist, as was shown by the tragic administration of the issue by the Tsipras Government. Our proposal is a realistic alternative, by taxing it to the extent that we can, without paying for the well-known mortgages, that is to say, wage earners and low pensioners. Those who are going to rush to condemn us, let us compare our proposal to the corresponding one - whenever they bring it, because you are bringing back - the Tsipras - Kammenos government, to see who really cares about the people and who really proposes realistic tax solutions. The second amendment concerns the choice of the regional directors of two of the five members of the service councils. Another premium for partyism in public administration. Say I was surprised to hear that? I'll lie. In any case, have the regional party directors not been placed? We propose a more objective procedure and we want the citizens to compare the two proposals. And let them draw their conclusions on who really wants education to be free of the firm hug of the governments concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. The amendment to hospitals comes to solve a problem that you have created on your own, forcing governors and subordinates to resignation. You left hospitals headless and with boards without legal composition. They risk - if not already lost - millions of equipment from the NSRP and an administrative hub has been created. However, by allowing hospitals to operate without a commander or a sub-commander indefinitely, the amendment opens up the way for cleansing which Mr Paulakis does not stop proclaiming. It is necessary to introduce a time limit, otherwise the amendment is lame. We will expect to see the government's attitude to these amendments, without being too optimistic about your policy to date. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in contact with a government which is unprepared and inconsistent, with amendments that go in, come out and come back at the last minute, such as brewery. Great to assume, Minister, the pressure from the big breweries? But, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, whatever saint protectors are called upon by your extreme right-wing psalmist Mr Kammens, the truth is only one, that you have led the mind of our people to Nadir. Every day the bill passes is growing. And it's an account that the Greek people have to pay. I've told you before from this Step, that the liar and the thief in the first year are happy. Your time is running out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u895	Mr. Leventis has the floor for eight minutes. Then Mrs. Iglezi follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u896	When will Mr Diaras speak, Madam President, as well as the intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u897	It's his turn next. You have the list in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u898	Good evening, honourable Members and Madam President. I see now on television a match between New Democracy and SYRIZA who had a better memorandum. One's memorial was better than the other! And they explain why the memorandum was better. I remember, however, that Mr Tsipras had lifted five years of an antimonstrous flag, which he sent to a night and went and signed a Memorandum definitely worse than the New Democracy, because he signed it under panic. Because in the Chamber, Mr. Friend, who said in his speech - I was not in the Chamber, but I heard the speech, because I appreciate him - that as Minister of Education he respects that it is a Pontius genocide, but as a man he may have his views, I would like to ask him this: this second saying, what did you want? Every man can have his opinion. What did you want with her? So you can continue to light more fires? To correct and say: 'I'm sorry, I had an unfortunate phrase. I respect Parliament's decision and respect that it was genocide what the Turks did to the Pontians." The fact that you have your personal opinion, Mr. Philly, why did you add it? To light up new fires, or at the time when we are discussing a very serious bill, should there be disorientation and people's attention elsewhere? Because you saw where the world's attention went: to be beaten by MPs, to have trabourism and to take advantage of a familiar side here your saying. The Minister for Education must be clear that he respects the Pontian Genocide. As to whether you have an opinion, we all have an opinion. We don't formulate it, we keep it inside, especially when we're public men. Meanwhile, the bills you carry are'supermarket'. Now that I've been sitting here for ten minutes to talk, you've brought in a couple of pages of amendments. What's that? That's not a parliament. Does the Member have time to read the sitting and decide whether to vote? This is an unprecedented deterioration of Parliament! You bring for shipping a year more for ships, which, as you know, are coffers. They're coffins for these ships running in the Argosaronian. We give them a year more. Do not adapt to Europe's directives immediately, but in one year's time. So the shipowners take an extension with the amendment, or have you not understood it? Then another amendment came in that taxes are never to blame. And forget to check, no matter what they do, an amendment has come that it is never the tax authorities' fault. On the canals, your parliamentarians are reckoning that they are chasing tax evasion and, on the other hand, you are distributing a document that forgives all taxpayers. I am very sorry, but I am starting to draw conclusions in this Chamber, that you people of SYRIZA are changing, not to the right, but to a form of hard right, in essence. Why is it missing to be right? Right what is it? Be a king-in-law? To be a pigeon? That's not all. It's going to pass laws on the urgency procedure. This is right mainly, not only the royals and the pigs. That was until ten or twenty years ago. Now, the words 'right' include behaviour. The behaviours of voting against it, the behaviour of bringing amendments which are a volume every hour and making'supermarket' bills and, in other words, the SYRIZA and a thousand New Democracy will have a thousand advisors. And you of the New Democracy are not the innocent pigeons. How many advisors do you have with those you have in your offices? I'll see you another time, not to tire you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u899	Analogously a little more than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u900	Yeah, I know how many you have. Democracy is very expensive. We have a very good democracy, but very expensive. If you believe - and I told you last time - that the people are following these meetings and rejoicing that you represent them properly, you are mistaken. There is a social explosion in Greece in progress, and the extreme right is exploited, that the political system is continuing to decline in its decline. That's the situation. I watched Mr. Voridis who messed with Mr. Friend. Does Mr. Voridis know about it? [[Laughers in the Chamber]] I mean, here we have a general amnesia, or we have occasional memories. We remember what has happened over this three-year period, but not over the past twenty years. Everyone remembers what suits him and what suits him. And the PASOK is sitting on the bench. But the PASOK forgets too - to tell the truth - how many he appointed and that bankruptcy from there started.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u901	They forgot us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u902	Very well, Mr Loverdos - I have no objection - the day before yesterday came out and he regretted the victims of the plane. For the victims here, the ten thousand who have already killed themselves and so many others who are ready to kill themselves, Mr. Loverdos, have you expressed your regret?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u903	Many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u904	You've got it. Okay. The fact that you belong to a party that started to bring socialism and instead of socialism brought a form of compromised right, you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u905	Hey, hey!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u906	You don't? Is that a lie? Are you left, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u907	Mr President, you are getting away now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u908	The left ones are us, the left ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u909	Are you more left than SYRIZA? Because we said that, because SYRIZA now went right, you might be lefter. You know, when everything in this place moves like ballarins, you can find yourself at any point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u910	You are getting away now, Mr President. You've been a candidate member of Mitsotakis, on the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u911	Anyway, let go of the bugs. Is it a lie that PASOK appointed a million people? Is it a lie? It's not a lie. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't come here to fight with you, nor did the Centro Association enter this House is to mess with all of you. You know very well that the Centro Association voted for it to start something new. Because the river is moving in a declining sphere and the PASOK is the ruins of the old PASOK, since the voters have moved to SYRIZA - you know that - and the right - is once a memorial and sometimes an antimonetary. We have a lot to see. The kitten still has many changes for New Democracy, and I expect to see which of your four chosen ones you will elect, because I have heard a view of the radio today - I don't know who it was said - not to be a second round and whoever comes out first. So, if one of them comes out with 22%, and the others with 13% or 15%, will he go out? I don't know who it was said by a large executive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u912	We are pleased that you are watching us closely. You have great anxiety for...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u913	Anguish about who you're going to get?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u914	Because you're referring.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u915	After I've said whoever you get out, you'll be lost. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] I don't have much anxiety! I don't have a lot of anxiety. I've said that all four aren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u916	That's an honor for all four.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u917	One, Mr. Meimarakis, once failed, always failed, the other is a bookseller far-right - the gentleman what's his name, I forget - the third is son of king-in-law from Thessaloniki, Mr. Djijkostas, and fourth of whom do you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u918	Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u919	The Mitsotakis. He's got the curse!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u920	This is an honor for you to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u921	The curse of the family drags her away, so we can make some sense of humor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u922	But it's time, Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u923	Is time passed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u924	Hey, now, it's going!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u925	Oh, sorry, Madam President! You must discuss here, because there are many amendments you bring. If you continue to bring two, three volumes of amendments at a time, to undo the original text of the bill, firstly, Members will not be able to read them, so they will certainly vote as not to say what. You know what Members are voting on when they cannot even read the amendment. You know, Madam President, how they vote. Anyway, I want to hope. I have always been in favour of forming a universal government since 2009 and had told George Papandreou not to form a government, although he had a hundred and sixty so many MPs. Because - I told him - what's gonna happen to you won't be described, you won't be able to leave your house. I am saying the same right now to Mr Tsipras. Because the control has been lost in January to find the courage to go to the President of the Republic to submit his resignation to form a universal government, not to hold elections. To be a universal government, I insist on it. And you right to stop rejecting everything, because you have voted before the elections everything in the name of not leaving Greece from the euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u926	So we don't reject everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u927	Or are you now a drachma? Are you with Mr. Lafazani? Maybe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u928	Mrs. Inglezi has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u929	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by putting things in place, on the so-called plenary decision of the Skouries Council, since there was a debate this afternoon in this Chamber. So how's history? At 11 a.m. on Monday morning, at 10 a.m., there was a press release of "REUTERS" for information on the decision of the Skopje Plenipotentiary on Skouria, which accepted the appeal of the company "ELLENIC FRYS". On the afternoon of the same day many electronic media reproduced the news, including details of the decision's rationale, which were not contained in the communication of "REUTERS", but on the other hand, the details concerned the reasoning of the S.H.E.'s previous decision. On the same night, the President of the S.A., by an announcement published on the official website, says: "From the office of President of the Council of State, it was announced that in the cases of the company "CHRYSOS SA" which were dealt with in the court's plenary session, no relevant decisions have been taken so far. The conference of these cases has not been completed. Any other news does not correspond to the reality.’ I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Iglezi, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that there is a leak, true or false about this company. The same had happened in 2011, pending approval of environmental conditions from the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when there was a leak that the new Minister, Mr Papaconstantinou, will sign it. The company's share price was launched overnight at heights. The notion was. And not to be very proud of those who, with their signatures, promoted and facilitated investments at all costs, as former Prime Minister Samaras said, and much more when talking about the alleged investment of ELDORADO GOLD in Skouria. It is the investment in the environmental study of the four thousand pages, in which they forgot to report dangerous toxic waste, as they are accounted for by environmental inspectors in their findings. These findings came out a month ago, while the results of the checks were found for three years hidden in the drawers of the Ministry. They also forgot to mention that the area in which they will build blocks of toxic waste, a hundred and fifty feet [50 m], has given within the 20th century two earthquakes of 7 Richter. They forgot to say that during the extraction of the staircase, tremulite fibers will be released into the atmosphere, one of the most dangerous forms of asbestos. Do we want these investments, ladies and gentlemen? And to come to the bill. Because we have not only to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis, but also energy dependency and clearly climate change, I consider this legislative proposal to be very important. As you know, at the end of the month we will be in Paris for the international conference on climate change. Climate change is not just a matter for highly qualified scientists. Its consequences have a serious impact on the sustainability of ecosystems, water resources, public health, food supply, agricultural crops, industry, transport and infrastructure. The development we are seeking for the country cannot take account of this factor. The conference will have a legally binding agreement which will take us a long time, and the aim of reducing primary energy consumption, limiting energy imports and reducing greenhouse gas emissions is imperative. This draft law, and in particular Article 25, recognises the issue of energy poverty as a major social issue in the country. The fact that Article 21 for the Special Energy Efficiency Fund also provides for the financing of actions with a social character and the prioritisation of energy efficiency measures in households affected by poverty or social housing is hopeful, because the Ministry of the Environment and Energy shows that it is not intended to simply draw up an action plan to address energy poverty, but is aimed at resolving the problem on the substance. It was very disturbed by Article 32, which concerns the amendment of No 32. Date of birth: 4280/2014. During the debate on this law in the summer of 2014 I was a rapporteur on behalf of the opposition officer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Madam President, please. I had him denounced as a foresticide, and I asked for his withdrawal. I consider it necessary to amend the provision on land reservoirs by the Ministry. In fact, the Ministry's intention to tighten the reafforestation exemption framework and interventions in a destroyed forest is imperative and will find us all - I believe - in agreement. As is necessary, the overall amendment or better abolition of the environmentalicide and unilaterally-oriented law with a multitude of photographic provisions in favour of business interests against forests and the environment. Because someone spoke this afternoon about the amendments, a hundred and seven amendments had come to one night in that law. The exploitation and development of our forest wealth are not self-evident against the development of investments in it. Its protection, however, is self-evident and undeniable. So I do not accept from those who had voted for Article 52 of Law 4280 to denounce today's more favourable for its forests, which protects forest areas which are directly threatened by business interests. Ladies and gentlemen, environmental issues are horizontal and go through all policy areas. They are at the core of what we often call "social and ecological transformation of production" in the context of the country's productive reconstruction. Energy policy with a social and environmental sign is one of the areas that gives the mark of a left-wing government. The current government is also firmly oriented in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u930	Come on, Mr. Deiaras. You have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u931	Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago Ska Keller, the Green Members of the European Parliament and Vice-President of the Green Group in the European Parliament, attended our meeting and fell at a time when there were still the convergences in this Chamber. I felt very bad, and not just because it was Ska Keller here, but from the picture that we gave Parliament. I think it needs self-control and self-restraint. I appeal to my fellow Members, not to play the game of those who want to degrade Parliament, because then the degradation of the democratic culture comes. Everyone has the individual responsibility for his behaviour in here. Every democrat Member should avoid the dangerous challenges - traps of Parliament's undermining. As a representative of the Green Ecole here, I will speak mainly on issues of ecology. We have a bill that, in necessity, contains many issues and indeed unsuccessful amendments. Does anyone think that there are Members of the SYRIZA or ministers who like these procedures? The criticism of the PASOK and the New Democracy - and they also made it to the committees - that we are not implementing a left-wing programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, for farmers and even for the environment, is good for us. They remind us not to be like their own parties and their own governments, who have been ruling for decades. Not to be integrated into the system and the simple management and handling of current cases. We must not compromise with complexity and corruption. We must not compromise with anxieties and inefficiency in public administration. Not to compromise with injustice, lawlessness, mediocreity, ochraphism. We should not, as parliamentarians, be indifferent to any privileges and main aim of re-election. Then we lost the game. It is the right time, the right time, to make sectoral and radical changes, seeing the mistakes of the past and the causes of maliciousness. We all need to agree that a sustainable prosperity strategy needs to be established, to which there should be convergence of the large majority of society. The sustainable prosperity plan is largely incompatible with what we call 'neo-liberalism'. The dominant multinational companies, chasing speculation, constantly create new needs, most of which are plastic and not real needs. With the help of the media, who control directly or indirectly as advertised customers, they even shape people's desires, even their aesthetics, for example, in fashion. The economy is shaped by the competitions and doctrines of economists, the continuous quantitative growth of GDP without quality of viability, with a guide to economies of a large scale, competition and anyone who can withstand. The financial system also operates in that logic. The companies are after tax havens and cheap work. We are living through this: deindustrialisation of countries, plundering of natural resources, unbalanced economies ready for collapse, peoples in unemployment or the threat of dismissal. We Echologians and the consistent left are questioning the neoliberal globalisation system. The political ecology is not expressed by the great state, which many collaboratively match with the Soviet model. Remind me Marx was talking about state erytheism. The ecology expresses the model of administrative and economic decentralisation, strong local economies, social enterprises, the political choice of drastically limiting multinational enterprises and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the resource economy, nature protection, and the change in the model of perpetual consumption created by the unconscious market. Also, food self-sufficiency. I have said this in general to highlight the distinctive aim of political ecology from other policies, that our duty towards the next generations of people and life on the planet is not exhausted by some measures that we will take for the energy economy or for the protection of forests. We must rethink serious changes in the social and economic system. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] This draft law brings in provisions for harmonisation with European directives on energy savings. And it comes a few weeks before the Paris World Conference on Climate Change. That is why I will mention some of the consequences of climate change according to the elements of the GREENPEACE organisation. More than three hundred thousand people around the planet die every year because of climate change. More than three hundred and twenty-five million people are somehow affected in life due to climate change. I won't mention all the evidence. However, desertification is now expanding in the temperate zone. What the report says is what we need to do. It sets the targets by 2020, but there are also the European Commission's 2030 targets: at least 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels. An increase of at least 27% of the total energy consumption from renewable energy sources. As I have pointed out to the committees, our country, in spite of all efforts to make a mandatory shift in renewable energy sources, is far behind, especially in the energy saving sector in the two main sectors that we can economy: in buildings and transport. That's where we move with turtle rate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u932	Mr. Deiaras, two minutes, no. Wait a minute. We must respect those who are missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u933	The relevant directorate of the Ministry of the Environment, says Article 6, is responsible for drawing up a long-term strategy report on investment mobilisation and renovation of the building stock, consisting of residential and commercial premises, public buildings and private buildings, and includes these obligations. However, measures are now being implemented and the objectives are being exceeded. Energy upgrading of buildings is a necessary measure, but should not be left to the laws and studies. Investments and money from European funds can leverage a sector that will give jobs. It will then give impetus to other relevant sectors of the economy. In Greece we have specialized scientific and technician staff who are in unemployment and decency melancholy. Let's use it. At one time, incentives were given for the solars...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u934	Mr. Diarah, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u935	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me close with the last one. The energy saving programme must be extended beyond buildings and transport, the development of the railways in our country, the networks of bicycle roads and the sidewalks within towns. It is a project prepared by the Polytechnics Institute for Athens and which has not gone ahead. Low-powered motor vehicles, hybrids, electric, hydrogen and others; The SYRIZA Government, cooperating with the Green Economists and our society and all political forces, have an obligation: To protect the future of our children and the miracle of life on the unique planet that we called Earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u936	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I appeal to my fellow Members to show mutual respect and respect for the six-minute time. Then, whoever has text, adapt it and reduce it to close at six minutes. Secondly, I will not give the floor to the President-in-Office but only to the end. If they have to respond to clarifications requested by colleagues, they will be given a five-minute answer for clarification. In the meantime, I am not going to stop the flow of Members and give the Ministers a speech. Thirdly, Members of the groups who have applied for a roll-call vote will be present at 22.30 seconds to read the list. Fourthly, the Conference of Presidents had decided by a large majority to end this evening's sitting at 22.00 p.m. On behalf of all the Members of the Bureau I apologise for the fact that some colleagues will not be able to speak. Because of the events that have taken place, I take responsibility for the President of Parliament, because I have not asked him, and we will be going until 22.30, so that more Members can speak. At that time we shall begin the roll-call vote. Because I see that there are representatives from all the parties in the Chamber right now, I ask: are we in agreement with the procedure that I have told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u937	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u938	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to today's bill, I would like to say a few words on today's events, on the grand course in which thousands of people participated, organized by the Pan-Popidian Federation of Greece on the basis of the statements by the Minister of Education, Mr. Phile. And of course we have also had the diversions that have happened, and I think we are all condemning them, whatever their origin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u939	It was fascist, not excitement!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u940	For the first time, however, the Greek Government officially questions the Genocide of the Pontius. When a Minister is called on any broadcast, he is not invited to express either his personal opinion or his scientific opinion. He is required to say his opinion as Minister, as a representative of the Government. And coupled with the fact that the former Minister of Education of the SYRIZA Government removed the chapter on Pontian Hellenism from the book of History, should we lead to other thoughts?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u941	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u942	Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, this is an insult to our dead and a concession to national territory. I hope and hope that there will be no other plan to be drawn up in the absence of the House. I now come to the bill, which is the second bill of prerequisites, as you claim, which has been agreed with the lenders. Apart from the fact that it contains rules which are not urgent and therefore for no reason justified as a matter of urgency, the first Article relating to the amendments to Article 1 of the Treaty is not justified. 4337/2015 that we legislated a ten-day time ago, irreparably exposes the government. You must understand that Parliament cannot legislate under pressure, because there are serious mistakes, which are also exposering the country. You only force us to legislate by means of procedures or urgent or urgent. In addition, this bill brings two new regulations, very serious, of course not urgent, which would in themselves cause storms of reactions and which you are trying to hide in the other articles of the bill, which are about improving energy efficiency. The first regulation concerns Article 51, the abolition of agricultural oil. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a key blow to primary production, for which we all agree that it is the main pillar of development, so that the country gets out of the crisis. You have exterminated farmers by increasing VAT on agricultural supplies. There is an increase in tax rates from 13% to 20% and 26% next year. You're more than tripling the insurance contributions to the OGA. You increase the tax advance from 27% to 100% gradually. You are also taxing agricultural subsidies from the first euro. And now you're coming and you're pulling out the agricultural oil. These certainly did not exist in the past. By the way, what will happen with the unified link that we are in the middle of November and which our farmers have not yet received? What about the agricultural oil you owe them from last year? Is that the result of a proud negotiation? Or is what Mr Stathakis said to Mr Lurado, the President of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association: Look - we are under surveillance. The lenders give us 100 billion. Some classes we'll give them dry. If that's what you feel like, I'm not proud. And I come to Article 31. You SYRIZA colleagues, weren't you the ones who used to fight for the autonomy of the local government for twenty years? Now what's changed? Have you become government? Last week you legislated the Ministry of Finance to manage the regions' finances, and today you are totally undermining the role of regional councils and regions. Trying to control the S.H.I.E.L.D. process, you make it central commanders. What does it mean "the Regional Council adopts the Minister's view"? So the Minister decides. The implementation of the memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, has altered you and I think you are in ideological confusion. With regard to the first part of the bill, which refers to energy efficiency in all areas of building activity, there are no disagreements, although all these procedures are complicated and I doubt they will be possible. The national target for 2020 with 18.4 tonnes of oil equivalent is very ambitious, if not impossible. Article 21 creates a new public section, a new specific Energy Efficiency Fund, for the purpose and targeting which fall within the scope of the Green Fund. At this time, this is unacceptable and we have not been convinced of the need to create it. Does it serve anything but the war of the dayrs? SYRIZA colleagues, you have abolished the privileged benefits. Remove the ESS. It is possible from the day before yesterday to auction the first home. In insurance there is a salt. You are making a retroactive pension cut, even under 1,000 euros. Are you proud of this? Is it at least an opportunity now to show a sensitivity to the polytexts, as well as a small one is the percentage and costs that it does not have, and to accept the amendment on polytext retransmissions beyond the 15% rate? We are also informed that the 2015 IKY will not give prizes and scholarships to students who were distinguished in the TEI exams, because there are no credits, he says. It is not about credit. It's about the idea. It's the fact that you say every day that excellence is a relic. How can there be appropriations for other assignments, for other posts that you have announced and do not exist for the perfect ones? I am not going to refer to Article 53 of the Athens Concert Hall, which is granted a third extension. Remember what you were saying about all this. I come to the amendment tabled today by the Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis, for the administration of hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u943	The amendment is closed, Mr Kelles. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u944	Of course I'm closing, Mr. President. With the applicable legislation, when the commander or the deputy commander is absent from the hospital, the board of directors cannot take a decision. In fact, the Minister was invited this morning as an example to the University Hospital of Larissa. That's it. Yesterday, however, Mr. Paulakis said that the governors and the Deputy Governors of the hospitals of the country have been evaluated and the most of the percentage is imminent. And he comes to the amendment today and says that hospitals will be able to operate under the direction of the head of the administrative services of the hospital. Is that the reason for the amendment, Minister? I think it is a disgrace and you must withdraw this amendment. Is it the governors that the hospitals didn't work? Did the commanders sabotage the hospitals?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u945	Come on, Mr. Kelles, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u946	You know what the hospital problem is. It's sub-financing. They operate with 40% of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that fairy tales about the prerequisites and the country's commitment ends here. It's time of truth. Of course, we will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u947	Until my old colleague Mr. Koutsoukos comes to Stepma, Mr. Dimitrios Emmanoulidis, Mr. Igoumenides and Mr. Nikolaos Papadopoulos will be prepared. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u948	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the question that goes on over the Chamber - not the ghost that goes on over Europe - is whether the mutant, memorial SYRIZA has an integrated plan that goes beyond the commitments and works it has made with this third most vague memorandum, or simply exhausts its government activity, through its ambiguities, abstracts, in the implementation of the commitments made with the ANELs or, in any case, in what our lenders impose on them. Why am I saying this? Because this bill has typical examples of what I said. What do government ministers say when they are found in a panel or even here in the House when they turn around about what will happen? Their first conversation is productive reconstruction and they invest it with a theory. So, look at this bill how it interferes with productive reconstruction. The first issue raised by this bill is that the refunds on the oil tax for farmers and, instead, the government does not accept a reasonable proposal, worked out - we started it when I was in the Ministry of Rural Development - which says that we can, on the basis of the UAE, give farmers a card to reduce production costs. The cost of production increased due to the increase in supplies from 13% to 23%, the cost of production is borne by a number of fiscal changes made by the government, which are also borne by farmers with an additional income tax and an additional advance. This is a characteristic example. I am glad that the Minister for Rural Development is here, because something can tell us. At the moment, it cannot tell us when we will not give the single aid, namely subsidies. I remember that on 16 October farmers protested because they had not taken the subsidy because they expected it to be taken on 15 October when the agricultural year began, and our government took the European Union's permission to make advance payments and did so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u949	Last year, when did you give it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u950	Now, then, farmers have accepted that this government cannot give them subsidies and go out on the streets to defend that they are left with the populace that comes. A second example of productive reconstruction. The government suffered a parliamentary defeat under the reaction of the whole opposition. It therefore tried to get back the advantage we had given in a decade ago, since 2003, in small beer industries and crafts to be competitive, to create jobs, to promote local entrepreneurship in combination with rural development. This government's political initiative was stigmatized by everyone, as it is self-evident that it serves the two large beer monopolies, a few shops in fact. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Mr Kyritsakis of the Competition Committee, has 10 years in his hands the audit report on the dominant position in beer production. You're looking for her? [[Applause]] For I would remind you, Minister, that Mr Kyritsakis has rushed to make a decision and punish the Greek cooperatives in Pindos and Arta for harmonized practices, and the fines have even been adjusted by the hundred doses. What's your job for productive reconstruction? I refer to the two examples in the bill. I now come to the other example, which is back in the bill. This is about tax evasion. What's the government's plan? It has a provision transferring five hundred employees of the ILO to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and four thousand cases. Mr Alexiadis has brought us here, which says that the Secretary-General - and I would ask him - will draw up the criteria for selecting these cases, will also monitor them with the legislative improvement he has made, and prepares for all that some will be registered without any responsibility. On the other hand, he puts Mr Tsipras here to the House - and the SYRIZA MPs applaud him - that he extends the limitation of the cases on the Lagard list and on the others. What's that? In any case, let us answer Mr Alexiadis - we have called him out of the preamble - what is going to happen with the cases, the remaining thirty-four thousand entering the ILO, the two hundred-five employees, who are mature? And finally, those who go to the General Secretariat of Income will not go with audit reports or information sheets and who will check them? So this plan, for what they are bailing out every day, namely against tax evasion on televisions and in the House, turns out to be completely on paper, is a waste and when it comes to apologizing, they will not then be able to denounce the previous ones, but they will have to tell us what they have done themselves. The third issue of this contradiction, ladies and gentlemen, is insurance. He did what the government did with the Memorandum, three times voted for them, took it out. We have made a legislative proposal, which we tabled in an amendment, which says that the guaranteed rights on the day we voted on these provisions are not affected. Mr Petropoulos tells us other things, which we have heard here at the Step of the House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Do you know where this contradictory policy of the government leads, ladies and gentlemen? Besides cutting off the insecure super-employee pension, apart from reducing the basic pension, it leads others to take them to sixty-seven and others at the end of the year to make them come out with thirty-five years while they want to stay in their jobs. I could therefore refer to other examples of this bill, such as the Congregation of Music, for example, which you have bailed against the extensions we have given. Do you have a plan for the Congregation of Music, or are you just now doing public relations? So, ladies and gentlemen, with these and other things that anyone could say about the bill, it turns out that the second hope of "negotiating hard and I have a plan" goes away, too quickly, as the first one has left, "I am tearing up memos" and, unfortunately, things will not be easy for Greek citizens at all. Another policy is needed, another country's exit plan from the crisis. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of fifty-nine seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u951	Me too, Yannis. Mr. Emmanuelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u952	Ladies and gentlemen, the style of each one of us is a hint of his ethos. In critical historical times, like the ones we live, we should all stand up to the circumstances, which means restraint and self-control in any responses, justified or unjustified. I should first like to address the Members of the New Democracy and PASOK. I note, ladies and gentlemen, over the past nine months, your behaviour in this Chamber has been uncomfortable. You cannot take care of yourself with your successive overwhelming election defeats. You are looking - unfortunately, for you - for the causes of your political depreciation by the people in SYRIZA's so-called populism. You have not clarified the difference between these terms, 'latic' and 'laticism'. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, you finally find contact with social and political reality. The stubborn support society provides to SYRIZA is not the result of its populism. It's the result of her experiential relationship with the Left. Our people realise that the SYRIZA MPs, who are here on these benches, are flesh from their flesh. Our social and political recognition and acceptance did not give us any political fireplaces, it did not offer us any support for economic patronage. All the years we have come together with the people, because our existence is in the deepest part of the people. This relationship with the people cannot break into any painful social agreement, the result of the extortion of creditors, and this is because society, despite the cruelty of measures, feels that only a part of itself, such as SYRIZA, can be managed with a sense of social responsibility that your governments have in all the post-government years brought them to the place. Please understand, ladies and gentlemen, the clear distinction between the two terms. I know it's hard to embrace. But, believe us, it'll be for your own good. With regard to this draft law, we are discussing improvements in the energy efficiency of public and private buildings and amending or repealing specific directives. We are talking about the incorporation of a directive, which I believe the European Union and our country have worked because of the delay in environmental protection. However, because it is never too late, even with unjustified delay, we are harmonising ourselves in an undeniably need to protect the environment, by upgrading the energy efficiency of buildings, both public and private. At the same time, an important economy is achieved with the ratification of this directive, especially in times of economic suffocation such as the present ones. On this point, I should like to say to the PASOK and New Democracy colleagues: in Kavala, a region from which I come, public buildings have been built in recent years, such as the courthouse, the general hospital, the closed swimming pool. Tens of thousands of square meters were built, without the slightest energy saving provision being taken. Activating and costing buildings were built in the logic of abatitism. It is a monument of criminal retreat to build a closed swimming pool, without any provision being taken for the use of a renewable energy source by placing it on the roof of photovoltaic elements. This is for society to know how the rulers perceive public benefit and respect for the environment. I shall then refer to the urban intervention in the area of Drapetsona. This regulation gives society an area for decades to downgrade, guaranteeing access to the sea for local society and creating goodwill, in an area of emblematic human suffering, as Tasos Leivaditis defined in his 'Drapetsona'. With this arrangement, the inhabitants of Drapetsonas now have life to paraphrase Levadite, since their soil will henceforth be able to enjoy it by highlighting the industrial architecture and ensuring the collective historical memory of the legendary Drapetsonas. Finally, I should like to say a few words about the Minister's statement on the Pontius issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u953	Two words, however, dear Demetrius.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u954	Ethnic patriotism classes the left won't accept. Its contribution to bloody sacrifices on the altar of the defense of the country is recorded in the historical collective memory. So we don't need patriotism certificates. These are to be settled with historical truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u955	Before giving the floor to the President of Potamio, Mr Theodorakis, who had informed the Bureau that he wanted to speak - and, under the Rules of Procedure, each Chief may take the floor at any time - he has asked me for the floor on staff for half a minute. I'll give you a minute, Mr. Grego, because half a minute anyway. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u956	Thank you, Mr President. A little while ago the New Democracy MP, Mr. Kumoutsakos, with a general statement implied that I was involved in an attack on him. Because this claim is false and slandering and because I have been elected by the votes of the Greek people since 2012 and I have shown that I respect colleagues, I demand that Mr Koumoutsako immediately withdraw this statement from him, which is false. That's how it's going to be restored and cleared up the obvious thing, that I have nothing to do with his attack. Otherwise, I will appeal to justice by filed lawsuits and lawsuits against him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u957	Thank you. Written your opinion. Mr. Theodorakis, knowing best of all of us here in time management, I give you eight minutes, as all the Chiefs have. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u958	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to go back a little bit in May 2015. At that time, I told the journalists: "We say we have to agree. If a European agreement is reached that will keep the country in the Eurozone and will not lead it to the cliff, we will support it." That was my statement, which many SYRIZA officials later made a flag, saying that it was Theodorakis who was pushing us to bring any agreement. I want you to hear my statement again. "If a European agreement is reached that will keep the country in the Eurozone and will not lead to the cliff, we will support it." So let's see if I was right or wrong. The measures you bring today, yesterday and tomorrow testify that I was right. Many of the things that you are promoting this winter in summary procedures would have avoided if you had negotiated and if we had made an agreement before Greece came out of the programme and before they were closed or rather before you closed the banks. But maybe it doesn't matter what I say, because I'm in opposition. So let's see what some new friends of yours say. Let's see what Mr. Juncker says, your valuable supporter after the last turn. I don't know if you've noticed what Mr. Juncker says. Greece would have paid less costs if Mr. Tsipras had accepted the proposal I had made to him. He said it in the documentary "Greece, the next day" of the channel "ARTE". Greece would have paid less costs! I think that phrase will come after you. After all, he admitted it and Mr. Tsipras speaking in the summer on the radio "STO COKINO": "We were indulged in a negotiation which was essentially a constant deterioration of our flesh." Similar words escaped sometime from Deputy Prime Minister Drasakis in August at ERT: "We thought that if we threatened out, the Europeans would be terrified. It has proved to be the wrong assessment.’ You will allow me a little to continue with what your new politicians are interested in in this documentary of French television. Pierre Moscovisi, in the same documentary: "Baroufakis was the man who was there to keep him from negotiating. He was taking instructions from the Prime Minister, so he wouldn't negotiate," Moskovisi says. The Commissioner for Economic Affairs says much more. He's talking about the role of Mr. Pappas in the negotiation, who's not here, but you'll pass it on to him. He said, "Every time there was this Pope" - it was Mr Moscovisi's exact statement - "which said "no, Prime Minister, you cannot negotiate on this basis". And then Mr Tsipras returned and said: "I cannot negotiate on this basis." That's right! Of course, it also has the point that Mr Yunker and Mr Moscovisi are talking about fear - so they say - of the Prime Minister not to hurt some Greeks, who, although they have carried their activities abroad, continue to want to invest in Greece. Who are these Greeks? Let's listen to Mr. Juncker: "I was there with my Tsipras", so he mentions him as "My Tsipras", "and I spent two hours to convince him to agree to fairly tax the shipowners." Two hours! I had to say to him: "Look, you're a communist, I'm a Christian Democrats, that is, for you I'm a waste, conservative and reactionary, and I'm here to tell you what to do all the time." And Moskovis humorously tells the Franco-German channel: "Jan Claude turns to me and tells me: "Fortunately we are here to help the socialist ideas prevail." So let us return to the constant question of Greek society. Why all these measures? Why all this injustice? Why this tax storm? Why are you depriving them? Why didn't we negotiate and sign a deal when we were with the back wall? So the prerequisites you are calling on us to vote today and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow are largely products of SYRIZA's inability and ideology. "You live," says a French philosopher - because you seem to like French a little, I will repeat - "from the perfume of a bottle, your idealism." We have, of course, supported the country's residence in Europe, but all this is well known, but now you must continue on your own. We will only vote for the necessary and will not vote for your mistakes. There is no parallel programme that you promised beforehand, no equivalent measures for you, because you do not want to cut off the costs of your guards, the public. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have learned from the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr Papaggioulou, that the file for the parties' loans goes to the archives. One of the greatest scandals of postmopulation, therefore, is forgotten. One of the flags you had closed. The damage will be paid by those who pay for all the damages, the unleashed taxpayers. You say, ladies and gentlemen, that you disagree with what PASOK and the New Democracy have done, but you are letting the case with the rural sea-lovings. And come to the point where all the households are talking. Remember what you were saying about red loans: seismicism. And with this slogan, which you well know is empty letter, you have been opposition all these years. Now you are talking once again about a painful compromise. So what about red loans is the question. How will it be ensured that arrangements and ruffles are not made, because some have a "dad in the Koron"? What are you going to do with the socially weak borrowers? Will you let the loans be judged by the same ones? Some answers must be given and not just say that the institutions are pressing. We propose that all loans be raised to a poor bank with transparent criteria and capitalisation in such a way - a combination of private capital and public guarantees - which will not be charged with debt. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, wants realism, for us progressive realism, not hollow words. But you continue to play with the agony of the world. I am referring to Rule 28, on what needs to be done, on what you say will be done, on the refurbishment of the coastal front in Keratsini and Drapetsona. Inside areas of the GATT, the National. When will these be resolved in court? Where will funds be found to regenerate this area? Can you make a specific commitment about when? When will citizens have access to Keracini and Drapetsona in this area? In 2016, 2026 or 2036? Give me a date. I would like to mention for one minute the last huge issue, the refugee waves, which we need to see how we manage them. From April and Mytilini, we call on the Potami to take initiatives so that the European Union and Turkey can make an agreement. The refugee flows to stop in Turkey. Do you know what answered us, early October, when we insisted on our proposal, the Prime Minister's office? "The pitiful views of the river only echo Mrs Lepenn's views." Alexis Tsipras, in Mytilini today, of course, with Mr Schultz on his side: what is necessary is to come to an agreement with Turkey to prevent flows. The structures should be across Turkey so that the Turkish coast can be relocated. Mr. Tsipras went for it a step further. Who dictates all this? Mrs. Lepenn? We therefore call on you to organise a summit in Thessaloniki with the participation of European institutions and, of course, Turkey. Mr. Schultz, I saw yesterday, he agreed. We must not solve the problem of refugee flows based on Mrs Merkel's promises or on our own with Mr Erdogan. It's wrong. It's nationally dangerous. Greece must not, there must be no human warehouse for certain uncertain exchanges. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we are not here to challenge, but we are fed up with your own challenges in our intelligence, in our prerequisites, in the refugee and in the day-to-day administration. So we're across from you. We also said in this bill'residents', but by voting against all the customer and harmful and by voting in favour of the few. So we will go, responsibly and away from the path of barren, but popular for Greek political things, politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u959	Mr Theocharopoulos has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. I would ask him to speak to two colleagues, and then I will give you the floor. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u960	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to an issue relating to the primary sector and, by extension, to the hundreds of thousands of families in our country, referred to in Article 51 and to the well-known history by adjusting the excise duty rate - known history with diesel - a provision that was mentioned - is not surprising nor news - since August 2015 in the third memorandum. This is a provision that it considers that its implementation will help the public funds with a little less than EUR 80 million. There is nothing new in the Treaty. This provision does not bring anything new, it simply clarifies and clarifies. However, on the occasion of this article, ladies and gentlemen, a campaign to condemn SYRIZA's policy has been launched in the agricultural sector and I would like to refer to it for a moment. "Today the total extinction of primary production and the total impoverishment of the agricultural world has been dawned." These were said a few days ago by my fellow Member of the New Democracy and I stand in this position, precisely because with small variations behind it, the cost of counterpopulation and the position, if you will, shows that the sense of the measure has been lost, the accuracy has been lost, the honest attitude towards the most promising and productive forces in our country has been lost. I would like at this point to stand by what we inherited and how we deal with it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have inherited the dissolution of the Agricultural Bank and of rural faith, a project that bears broadly the seal of the former Government of New Democracy - PASOK. In what way are we trying to deal with it? With the special-purpose bank. That is why the Minister for Rural Development has spoken about and I would not like to stand any further. Ladies and gentlemen, we have inherited the final decision by our creditors to return fines and charges of more than 3 billion as a result of the poor management of Community funds since the 1990s. How do we deal with it? We are seeking to significantly mitigate fines and charges, to pay off over time and certainly not to pay for them by farmers, who are ultimately not responsible for this management. Ladies and gentlemen, we inherited a 2013 law that ranks farmers in business and taxs them 13% of the first euro, taxs aid and compensation. How do we deal with it? SYRIZA abolished taxation for all agricultural allowances. Secondly, we are aiming, as the Minister for Rural Development has stated, for the immediate and timely payment and repayment of all payments and due from 2012 to the compensation of the ELGA in 2014. We are fighting for the relief of the wider majority of farmers, and that is where our position is aimed at tax-free of EUR 12 000 on subsidies. It does not refer to a small number of farmers, it refers to 93% of farmers whose subsidies are under 12 000 euros and we are dealing with it by energising the rights of the new CAP. Being in a live connection and in dialogue with farmers, I would like here, Minister, to transfer some of the parameters we have had with them. Firstly, we must bear in mind the cost of transporting both raw materials and products produced, which are disproportionately great in island Greece and the remote regions of our country. In view of the fact that the Greek rural families, in addition to the costs and costs they have for farming, have the family expenses and any costs which may arise in urban areas. Let us see the issue of foreign workers, who do not have AMKAs, so that they cannot work legally, with what this means for the State as a whole. We need to see a number of measures and proposals for the reconstruction and rationalisation of the agricultural sector, the central idea of which is that production as a whole should be subsidised and not exploited. Finally, we are calling for a tax-free limit of EUR 12 000 not on subsidies, but on all agricultural incomes. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the bad things that we have inherited and the bad measures that we have to implement, and the measures that we take in this direction, to cure the wounds that are opening up to the Greek society. These are the measures that, if you like, confirm the usefulness of the Left from the government's position on the rural world of our country. However, we do not only live in this. It is precisely because we are working in a difficult environment, that the draft for the radical reform of the agricultural sector, as we are discussing it as SYRIZA, which aims to ensure food adequacy, the competitiveness of agricultural production, the retention and renewal of the rural population, as well as to ensure social cohesion in rural areas. In this direction, if you wish, is the fair distribution of eligible pastures, the simplification and reduction of costs and bureaucracy of all procedures for authorisations of all kinds, the relocation of the labour idea on a new healthy basis and other measures. I don't have time to stand on all this. I'm just going to be on tax. Our position is to have tax justice. This is the main axis, the burden of taxation being shared fairly to farmers too, according to their actual fiscal capacity. Tax justice, gentlemen, means that income is taxed and not the profession. The income of five, ten or twenty thousand euros is taxed in the same way for the farmer, for the worker, for the professional, regardless of the kind of profession he is doing. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we are neither turning our backs nor having reason to hide the truth from the farmers. We are making every effort to keep the main arm of productive reconstruction in our country alive, agriculture, and its support, the rural world. In order to achieve this, we need the constant struggle of society and through the continued efforts of the government, we need these fight ties to be strengthened between SYRIZA and farmers, because that, in my opinion, is also the prerequisite for our success: SYRIZA and farmers to strengthen our quest for unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u961	The sober colleague, Mr Nikolaos Papadopoulos, always has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u962	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u963	I call it a preamble. I know what I'm doing. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u964	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague has dealt with many issues, but I shall refer to an issue relating to agricultural photovoltaics. Be more careful about the formalities, because there is a risk that farmers will get out of the photovoltaics. I would also like to make a proposal for small and very small photovoltaic arcs for farmers, especially for agricultural use. We will also give you a more concrete and comprehensive proposal so that the farmer can have no cost in the current. I think it is a proposal which you should see very seriously. Secondly, I read in the text that there is something about agricultural oil. There's nowhere. We have a return to the oil tax. There has been a lot of talk about oil here, and I have to make a clarification. Agricultural oil - we, the farmers, have said - is a tax refund. We took the passover every time along with the qualitative parade. Last year we took the oil next year. At the moment, the state owes the farmers the second instalment of oil in 1913 and those in 1914, so until now we have not taken the oil from the time that others ruled. In particular, a few years ago, it was on the turnover of 3.5% along with the supplies to get the VAT refund. It was 11%. Then, this decreased and a few years ago it came to be at 6%. After a number of years, returning oil went to the eve and started from the twelve euros for cotton to six euros for the wheat. At the moment in cotton is at 8 euros the acre, at 4 euros the acre, in the corn pottery is at 7 euros the acre. So the farmer doesn't get oil and his tax is immediately deducted. There is a certain amount of oil for the acre for each farmer. Then, for tomatoes for processing it is 7 euros the acre. I am saying this because I have heard here that the cost of production is rising sharply. If we're going to the small islands of the Aegean Sea there, it's 4.5 euros a acre. Let us also say another truth, that these small amounts are also needed by the farmer, but not that agricultural production is being destroyed with it. Because this oil reduction was for specific work, while the farmer uses too many litres, especially for arable crops and trees. We understand that this is a very small percentage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u965	Is that the only rate? Is that all production costs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u966	Yeah, that's it. I will say this with one example: a farmer with a hundred acres, with fifty acres with stalks and fifty with another crop, will take for the fifty acres of wine 150 euros and for the other fifty - if it is cotton - it will take 400 euros a year. That's what it's gonna take. Not as it sounds, when I take oil and every time I put oil, I have a tax reduction. It's not true. It's with the acre for every crop. Once. One simpler example: I have a hundred fifty acres of fields and I have them with stalks broken up, with 3 euros the acre I'll get 450 euros. And that's what they need, the poor need them. But don't go crazy that this is where you were giving us some money and we didn't know what to do with it. Of course I'll fight for duty-free oil. I understand, of course, that my country is in a vortex. As far as the taxation of farmers is concerned, I have a POL here, which clarifies how farmers are taxed and says: Profit from an individual agricultural enterprise in accordance with Article 29(3) of Law No 4172/2013 is taxed at a rate of 13%. Agricultural subsidies and compensation. The first subparagraph of Article 29(1) is expressly defined... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I can't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u967	Because of sympathy, I'll give you a minute. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u968	Thank you. As a result, agricultural aid and compensation were initially included in the revenues from agricultural business. Under the provisions of Article 1(2) of the EEC Treaty. However, a new paragraph was added at the end of Article 21 of the FAEC, Law No 4172/2013, according to which, for individual agricultural business operators, the agricultural aid and subsidies granted under the Common Agricultural Policy are included in the determination of the profit from an agricultural business activity only in part of the subsidies and aid exceeding EUR 12000. As a whole, agricultural compensation is not taken into account. This is the truth of farmers' subsidies. So you voted to tax ELGA compensation, and from the first euro, with 13%. Let's be specific. One more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u969	And that's what you're closing up with, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u970	I'm closing, my president. I would also like to mention one element of refugee. I'm a third generation refugee. My grandmother was Turkish-speaking. When we came here, we were told Turkish seeds, picking up and leaving, they called us "we don't want you", they found us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u971	The rightists did that too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u972	Some people did that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u973	Mr. Davakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u974	I mean, my grandparents brought us here. Then they took the refugees to the worst places, Comrade Kegeroglu, and died of malaria. I want you to understand why I'm saying that. My grandmother came thirteen years old, and at fifteen she got married, because she had nothing. My grandfather...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u975	Dear Nikolaus, not all your genealogical tree now! Please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u976	Let him speak, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u977	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u978	Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u979	But to understand that when I saw the refugees here, I was thinking about my grandmother. For six months he was in a tent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u980	Mr. Papadopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u981	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Be well. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u982	The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u983	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to refer to what happened this afternoon. We strongly condemn the attack by a group of right-wing tramps at the expense of MP Yiorgos Kumoutsakou. The poor statements made by the Minister of Education do not justify the eruption of nationalist perceptions. The Minister of Education should have understood that he is Minister and does not express personal views. But no tolerance, no netting. The democratic world is always against fascist behavior. Gentlemen of the Government, the Minister of National Defence is Mr. Kammenos. He is not only the President of the Independent Greeks. Soon ago he said that events and lectures will be held in all the camps on all national issues, in response to what Mr Philis said. What's gonna happen? Are we going to have a friend, a Mr. Kammenos? It's government. They're not parties that say their personal views. You need to get in position. The Prime Minister must take a position on the statements made by the Minister of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned in my position at the outset of the bill, the bill we are debating today could be a characteristic demonstration of the failure of the SYRIZA Government - Independent Greeks to legislate organised, structured and long-term, with substantial dialogue with society and freed from micro-party logic and trends of centralisation and state control. In the first article of the bill, the government puts forward a provision which provides for another provision to be voted on - and you are here, Mr Minister - which was voted on just a few days ago and which concerns the abolition of regulated insurance rights. We have asked for a specific amendment, Minister, which reads as follows: By 18 August 2015, fundamental rights should not be affected and the right to retirement can be exercised at any time. Unfortunately this has happened with this amendment. We have tabled it and said the change we are asking for in committee. Your Undersecretary, Mr. Petropoulos, initially said that he would accept it and override it with what it would bring. It was recorded in the minutes and then sent a note after two hours to inform the committee that it does not override it. And he came here today and told us he couldn't cover it. Is this a conduct with which we can move forward? You have to answer. The second part of the bill is incorporated into Greek legislation by the Community Energy Efficiency Directive, but without any legislative gaps. For example, Article 10 regulates the issues of the energy auditors, but without ensuring the reliability of their work, since it does not oblige them to pass through the National Accreditation System. Of course, too many issues in the second part of the bill, in connection with harmonization with the Community directive, are necessary. That is why these articles and these regulations have stated from the outset, with the improvements we have asked for, that most of us will support them. However, the third part of the bill, to which I have referred extensively and in my prototype, is affecting the primary sector. It is good that the Minister for Rural Development and Food is here to hear these issues. Of course many Members have referred to falsifying positions expressed by members of the PASOK - DIMAR Group. The PASOK - DIMAR Democratic Association insists on promoting the introduction of agricultural oil for which it has tabled an amendment, but also on demanding support for agricultural production of exports and strengthening the incomes of those involved in agriculture and livestock farming. We call on you all to stand supportive in our efforts and to vote in favour of the amendment that we have tabled. The first is to accept the amendment on the introduction of agricultural oil for the first time. Minister, if you can keep an eye on what we're telling you, because you're interested. It's for the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. I do not think you are interested in what we say in Parliament. Well, Minister, you have decided to abolish the refund on agricultural oil and we have said this: Minister, I don't think you're interested in rural development at all...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u984	Mr Apostle, because you will have to respond to the end, as I have told you, I would ask you to look after the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u985	Thank you, Mr President. So, Minister, you are abolishing the refund of taxes on oils, on agricultural oil, and we are telling you this: why do we not introduce agricultural diesel with a farm oil card, as you said in your electoral commitments before January 1915, as was our commitment to move forward? Why don't we do it now? Why don't we move on to this amendment? Why are you not accepting the amendment? No commitment, no prerequisite says that this will not happen. It's another article that's come. We also say that this article would be voted on if the amendment we have tabled were accepted. And let us, Minister, inform the farmers that Community aid will be taxed with 26%, which affects Community competition. A number of Members have put themselves here and said that this is all right, it is happening in a number of countries. It is not the case in most European Union countries and it distorts Community competition when taxing aid more than other countries. VAT on agricultural supplies is increased from 13% to 23% and at the same time you go to other regulations, such as the tripling of insurance rights. It will not be left to produce in the countryside if we continue to have these measures. We do not even go into the national plan for a rural economy. You have not even made progress in a long-term strategy on the agricultural sector. We have tabled an amendment to the effect that 13% of VAT should not pass on to the elderly and that 23% should not apply to the elderly. Nor have these measures which we have proposed, social cohesion measures, which are essential to this point, have been accepted. Not to mention brewing and small and medium-sized enterprises, in which case what happened? The SYRIZA Members voted for it in the committee responsible and did not vote for the whole opposition and the Greek Independent Party. It was actually voted against. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And because some SYRIZA MPs asked: Why the limit of two hundred thousand hectolitres? Limits are coming in. We want to propose other limits. But limits are made to any discrimination between small and medium-sized enterprises. For all these reasons, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will once again point out that, as long as there is no comprehensive plan to overcome the crisis, as long as you do not propose a rule of law with merit, but you remain understaffed to deadlocked policies, the country will not overcome the crisis. For these reasons, the Democratic PASOK - DIMAR will vote against the bill at first, but it will vote in favour of those articles that are moving in the right direction, such as those concerning the adaptation of the Community directive to Greek law. Unfortunately, it's not the largest part of this bill. The largest part is all the measures you have brought from various unrelated ministries - from Rural Development, from social security - and various regulations which do not concern the bill and, of course, are not prerequisites. Most of these are not prerequisites. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why does what prerequisite, for example, say that in training the service councils will cease before the end of their term of office? What prerequisite and what troika has he told you this? This is due to the fact that there's a logic not worthy,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u986	Mr. Theoharopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u987	...but a logic is to change everything, with the logic of controlling them, to control the state and not to create a rule of law, worthiness, as the place needs, reforms everywhere and deep areas, in which not only do I see that you are determined to go ahead, but do the opposite of what the country needs, from a productive reconstruction plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u988	As we have said, two colleagues will follow Mrs Catrivanou, who will come and Mr Mitafidis Trinidad. He has asked for the floor after the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman and will take the floor. Two colleagues will follow, Mr. Georgios Stylos and Mr. Nikos Panagiotopoulos, then the Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs and we will see how far we will arrive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u989	Mr President, please, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u990	Mrs Catrivanu, before I give you the floor, the Minister is asking for the floor. Minister, you weren't in the Chamber. The House unanimously decided that the ministers will not speak until 22:30. You keep everything you have to do by that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u991	Mr President, you have not understood what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u992	You don't understand what I'm saying to you. Before we close the meeting, at the end of the day, each Minister will take the floor to say not only about the amendment, but also about what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u993	I don't want to defend her. I want to report to the House, so the Members will know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u994	What are you going to say to this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u995	Know her, keep her in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u996	Good. Say it, although you could do it at 22:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u997	I would like to inform you that Amendment No 47, and number 33, is tabled and accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u998	What's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u999	Say the title at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1000	Refers to the suspension of execution of demolition decisions until ratification of forest maps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1001	Mr Maniotis, before we have any conversation, I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Minutes to take a picture of the amendment, to share, to see it written, and since you have to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1002	Mr President, we have read it and we want to ask, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1003	We'll give it to you ready, copied.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1004	We've got her. We've read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1005	All right, Mrs Manolakou, you want to talk, you'll be placed. You have read it, the other colleagues have not. To take it, read it, and if they have to be placed, I will give them the floor. Mrs Vassilis Catrivanou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1006	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President, first of all I would like to begin by saying one thing which I consider to be very important. We have lived today the brutal, fierce beating of Mr Koumoutakou from members, against his complaint, of the neo-nazi organisation of Golden Dawn. Yesterday we were living the attack on the Minister of Friends, and I don't go into the question of whether anyone agrees or disagrees. I would like to say that these practices, with different gravity on the one hand, are really a threat, firstly, to physical integrity, secondly, to freedom of expression and, thirdly, to democracy itself. And they are atrocities, which let us think about how we start, how we amplify them and where they end up. And I believe that everyone in this House must denounce them and do everything I can to prevent them from being repeated. Secondly, a small mark on immigration, on what the President of the Potamio said. We have never said, Mr Lepen, that war refugees are trapped in any country, Turkey, etc., and that they are kept there. We, as SYRIZA, are saying that the important thing is the safe passage of people. And how is the safe passage of people, according to all international organisations, in accordance with the Council of Europe? It is done with large numbers of resettlement, starting from these countries, Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya. That's what we're saying. We are thinking of starting a broad resettlement from these countries. We're not talking about getting people locked up there. Refugees must be able to enter Europe safely. Don't paraphrase what we're saying and take responsibility for what you're saying. I am going to talk about something very specific, which relates to an amendment that we have tabled on the continuing operation of structures to support women victims of violence. According to this amendment, the services of the advisory centres and the S.O.S. telephone line, the General Secretariat of Gender Equality of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, as well as consultancy and hosting centres for women who are victims of violence, the Local Government Organisations and the National Centre for Social Solidarity are part of a programme. Co-financed or co-financed by the European Social Fund, under the National Strategic Reference Framework, for the 2007-2013 programming period. With our amendment we want to continue to provide their own services until the integration of the acts or the signing of the conventions on these operations or for the development of them in the framework of the ESDP Programming Period 2014-2020. S.O.S. telephone line. is a first-line service. It is part of the network of sixty-one structures developed by the General Secretariat of Gender Equality throughout the country and provides legal support and psychosocial support and protection for victims of violence and their children. There today there are two hundred seventy - one persons working. We believe that it provides necessary social, pro-active, first-line work. According to our statistics for 2013, 80% of cases in the system relate to racial violence, 77% of domestic violence, 62% are mothers and 30% are unemployed. If these lines and structures do not continue to work, we leave these women in a period of economic crisis vulnerable to mothers and their minor children. Also, as you know, to be effective in providing psychosocial support, it must have continuity, not to stop working, so that there is confidence on the part of those who accept the services. That is why we are calling for the smooth continuation of the structures which support these women and children, as we have said. I think that this, Minister, will be a signal at the moment, at a time of crisis, when women who accept violence can be caught in violence, because they have no other ways of escape than the ones that the state can offer them. They will therefore give a signal that this government is practically working and taking action against racial violence, racism and any concept of humiliating and underestimating women. I would therefore ask you to accept the amendment so that they can continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1007	Thank you, Mrs. Catrivanu. Mr Mitafidis has the floor and then the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1008	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my condemnation and support to the two colleagues who have suffered this trampoccal attack by the well-known right-wing trumpets, who unfortunately also have them in this House. I would like to begin with two proposals on critical issues relating to gaps in education. I have the information from the representatives of the industry that while we have surpluses of teachers in certain areas, in particular the training of trainers, these colleagues, although they could be employed in primary education, are in status - I would say - forced holidays. I have been informed that these gaps do not exist at the Central Council of Secondary Education, so that these colleagues are not employed and recruited as substitutes. I've got a lead given by the heretics. In areas A' and B' Thessaloniki there are thirty gaps for the specialty of trainers in primary school, which could have been well covered by overlying teachers. I expect an answer from the Ministry of Education. The other is, of course, a proposal for those who are written in excess of, as you know, in the schools that they have declared because they have taken part in Olympians. In my opinion, it should be included, in particular, for the physics departments of our universities, and the students representing our country in the International Olympiad of Astronomy and Astrophysics are also a request from the relevant company. I think it's self-evident. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this sad episode, the attack on colleagues, to make some points about the behaviour of the Opposition. I see that today, particularly, it has blown up a kind of political reunion against SYRIZA. There's a strategy of tension. Indeed, I did not expect the Members who have suffered this attack to denounce the perpetrators, from which political area at least they come, to charge the moral automobile to the SYRIZA. That's incredible! I see that beyond the resurgence of nationalism that we have been living in these days and the certificates of social opinion - 'Renounce Friend with abomination, otherwise you are not nationally acceptable' - we also have the withdrawal of the well-known theory of both ends. That was the reason why a provocative attack we took from the PASOK side literally pulled me out of my clothes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1009	Because now, however, you've "done" to the clothes, we're going to the bill. Don't touch wounds again, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1010	Look, Mr President, I think you cannot judge what I am saying. It's not your responsibility. So let me say what I want to say and let my colleagues judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1011	I appealed to you. Because, if you do so, I can apply the Rule of Procedure which is clear and says that we are talking about the bill. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You understood what I said. I made an appeal not to resuscitate the blood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1012	I would therefore like, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are lately nursing this theory and who ask us for certificates of national self-defense, to put a question on this point, because we have also heard conspiracy theories here, that something suspicious is happening. Did Tsipras get Phil - because he's going to Turkey - to make the sweet eyes to the neighboring country? I don't have time. But I want you to answer that fact from now on. I call on you to read the 'AGE' backwards today, to see this debate in Parliament when PASOK colleagues tabled in 1994 the question of the recognition of the Pontius genocide. You need to see what was said then and what purposes it served and what the reactions from your party (ND), Mr Laurentiadis and Mrs Tsouterou were. So I would like to ask you this, according to this conspiracy theory that you have recently rekindled. Eleftherios Venizelos visited Turkey in 1930, as you know, and asked for Kemal Ataturk to receive the Nobel Prize for Peace. Should we be tearing down his statues, putting his name down from the streets of all the cities of the country and blowing up his grave in Akrotiri, as being not "nationally correct"? And I would like to end by saying this: as Mrs Catrivanou quite rightly said, the question is not whether what Mr friend said is acceptable or not, but whether he has the right to express his opinion. You are against the right to freedom of expression here. That's what you tell us here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1013	He's a minister. He's not just a civilian. Does he realize he's a minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1014	So you're going to impose a national orthodoxy here? Will we send you what we want to say for approval?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1015	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1016	That's fascism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1017	Mr. Colleague, you've spent time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1018	Answer what I told you about Eleftherios Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1019	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1020	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be consistent. How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1021	I put it in the first place - so that I don't give it back - instead of for six-seven minutes, so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1022	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also have to start with the attack by our colleague Mr Kumucasos. I would like to say that we strongly condemn the fierce attack by fascistoids on the New Democracy MP, Mr Kumucaco. This attack demonstrates how dangerous the game of patriocardialism, which has been played in recent days on the occasion of, but not essentially, the oldest statements made by the Minister of Education. Mr Philis has now made it clear, as Minister of Education, what he sees as a decision of the House and what he serves. The reactions, however, were not fuelled by its actual placement. Reactions were fuelled in an immoral and unethical way by falsifying his statements and also by the unacceptable demand of the Anti-Population not to have the right to a personal opinion. I would therefore like to remind you that the French urban-democratic revolution was based on the right to express a free opinion. European culture is based on freedom of speech. In this Europe, fascism does not fit in. The opinion clearly fits. Our Greek brothers, the Pontius and the Pontius, who sent out the labour and left movement of our country, defended this right of opinion, that is, the right of opinion, the right to work, the right to freedom. We're not giving you that path. You cannot serve, defend you today afterward by struggling - if you like - their patriotic mood, their own interests. But we can fight together for our society's democratic struggle against fascoids. You have found out what strange diversions can be made. Violence is an enemy of our society and the apology of the supporters of violence, I think we will all agree, must be given before justice. In this bill, however, we have heard a lot of things out of reality, and I have to say it even in the debate on the articles. There are no, dear friends, no contents in the bill on VAT in schools, farmers' taxation, the reform of insurance, first home confiscations. Many opposition parties, almost all, but also many MPs, used these elements in their speech. All we can conclude is that the absence of a political proposal on your part, either on the bill or on the Greek proposal for reform and reconstruction, leads you to use in your position and in the arguments that falsify reality. The reality of the prerequisites was also falsified. Clearly. We repeat this: Prerequisites voted by the overwhelming majority of Members in August are contained in the bill, such as the question of farmers' oil, the question of the staffing of the ILO, the issue of the affairs of the ILO. And suddenly through the window, a matter of Skours came up, because, he says, the majority of the media publicises that there is a decision of the Council of State. May a question normally arise to me? Ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Alliance, let me - of course, Mr Arvanitides, is not Mr Maniotis here, but I also address you and you are entitled to answer - the media define your policy, or do you define what the media say? It is a dilemma that many years we have been trying to understand particularly about the PASOK area. Who runs the test, do you publishers or publishers to you or co-decide what to publish? Does it matter that some of the business interests of the ‘Golden’ are the same as some of the business interests of the publishers of the company ‘Hellenic Chrysos’? I wonder, I'm not sure, I'd like you to answer me. And I ask: Since you so much trust the media, as Mrs Iglezi said, when the media publish an opinion of the President of the TEE that there is no decision, which I submit in the Minutes, what media do you trust: what is your interest in making a policy or what you agree to publish something, to make a policy? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I would like to ask something else: what is the real policy on Squirrels? Is it a real political issue how the Environment Ministers reacted from 2012 to January 2015 in the multiple environmental inspectors' reports certifying a breach of environmental conditions in Skouria? Isn't that a real political environmental issue? Is the substance of legislation and its compliance, the substance of environmental quality and quality of life not a political issue, ladies and gentlemen? Is it a political issue what a rumour is publishing a newspaper, but is it not a political matter if an investment implements and honors the environmental conditions on which it was adopted? Because that is what we have had so far in the case of the Skouries. We had an investment that proposed environmental conditions, approved the way it was adopted, very shortly after Mr Papaconstantinou was appointed and did not comply with them. So what was the state supposed to do? Not to control the application of legality? Are you suggesting that we have a public administration that will not control and implement legality? You're aggressing us because we're controlling the environmental conditions that a PASOK minister introduced overnight? They do not even implement them in the region and take advantage of the need for work in the region, which we too are looking at very carefully, and we will resolve with the local citizens for the benefit of the region, but not at the expense of the environment. Because that, if you wish, is in line with the logic of sustainability, which we have also tabled in the proposal for urban intervention for Drapetsona. We cannot underestimate the quality of life, the conditions of the environment, the natural resources alone, with a view to growth. That's no growth, that's a disaster. But let me say, since we are talking about the articles, and some specific issues about the articles that have been tabled in today's bill. Energy poverty, Art. 25. Minister, we obviously agree on the action plan to tackle energy poverty. But it is a project which must definitely be linked to the social protection network which must be structured throughout Greece, which cannot be self-government from the outside. Because energy poverty is also people with disabilities who cannot have power for breathing support systems, for example, are the ultra-aged ones and they are also a number of our compatriots who need energy and they must also be in the plan. However, the project must be implemented very quickly in cooperation with the self-government and social areas. Secondly, I want to refer to the national waste plan. A waste plan cannot be implemented which has been ratified and is not combined with the national regional plan. Those who complain about the lack of the national and regional connections today were not all those who were in agreement with the ministers to do through the Interministerial PPPs the closed contracts, which shared Greece in packages to make large factories, useless to many people why were they over-recorded? Was that not the agreement with the central leadership and, at times, an agreement that also had economic costs? Do we now have compatibility? I think we should also agree on this. Finally, I shall refer very briefly to Article 10, to the rights of the energy auditors. Minister, we have tabled together with the SYRIZA rapporteur the proposal, so that in the case of rights of access to the list of energy auditors all graduates of HEIs would include engineers, because any exclusion or restriction, such as environmental engineers or energy resources, would create market distortions. I think that access for all engineers to this possibility could solve many problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1023	Mr. Famele, before you came down, is the last thing you said is the amendment you tabled ten minutes ago?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1025	The Minister was asked and replied negatively.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1026	Mr President, one minute's reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1027	Mr. Brutsi, what issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1028	On issues which are particularly serious today and which concern Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1029	In the end, I will give you the floor, as with all the parliamentary representatives. You've spoken, but I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1030	For one minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1031	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1032	Mr President, I have spoken, so I will not abuse time nor take any new time. But I have two things to say. Firstly, all the sites and all the social media have now seen the faces of these fascists and tramps who have raped Mr Kumucaku. I appeal to the government tonight to do everything it can to get these people arrested. You have to do it, Mr. Ministers. You must do everything you can and finally send a strong message as a government! I say this because, Mr President, I do not want to throw oil on the fire, but Mrs Gerovas' statement was unfortunate and I want you to see this. It can't be voiced like that against Officer Opposition. Only if and when what I say is implemented will you be atonemented. I want this message, Mr President, to go to the government's side and to do everything these people can to be arrested, who in an unacceptable way, by trabucism and fascism, have worked against Mr Kumucaku. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1033	I think that was also included in the New Democracy Declaration. And I do not think there is a single colleague in this Chamber who does not agree that if they can be arrested, they must be arrested.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1034	Mr. Brutsi, he didn't say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1035	He said it! Is it possible to say that New Democracy is far-right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1036	Mr. Balaura! Mr. Brutsi! We're not going to ruin the meeting because of Mrs. Gerovali's statement. Here we all agree that the gentlemen must be arrested. There's no one to argue. This is in favour of Parliament too. From that point on, everyone is making his statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1037	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1038	Mr. Philly, I won't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1039	Shouldn't the government talk about the New Democracy appeal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1040	In the end. There is no way that this can be done at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1041	Mr President, I would like you to give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1042	I saw you all. Mr. Maniotis, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1043	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1044	You'll do it. Sit down a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1045	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1046	Mrs Manolakou, too, wants to speak on the same subject. Put your hand down. I saw you, Mrs Manolaku. I'll give you the floor later. On behalf of Mrs Anna Vaguea, who does not want, with regard to time, to develop her statement on Article 54 of the bill, since I am sure I can do so, I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[The above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice, is presented here.]] Now on a point of order, obviously, Mr Maniotis and you, Mrs Manolakou. Therefore, Mr Maniotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1047	Mr President, I would like to ask the following question. The amendment was tabled by the Minister, Mr Tsironi. This is the abortion of the decade. It is an amendment to suspend the demolition of arbitrary land on forest land. The question is, will we have time to place on this unconstitutional abortion, or will we just vote on an amendment incomprehensible? I, therefore, ask for this amendment alone, at least for time to be set aside, either the Parliamentary Representatives or the rapporteurs of the parties. As far as the last abstention of the speech by my colleague for the media and Skouria and Halkidiki Medals is concerned, he obviously considers the odds himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1048	My position is that everyone here must say that the elected representatives of the nation are not ridiculed by anyone - all without exception - and not fall into this trap. Well, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1049	No, Mr President, our parliamentary representative will speak. Unsolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1050	Good. Thank you. I now address the Minister for the Environment. Is he here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1051	He's in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1052	All right, when he gets into the Chamber at the time, because I want to make a proposal to him that we might be able to get out of the fuss that is going to follow, because I understand that from now on. Well, then it's Mr. Stylus. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1053	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by referring to the title of today's bill, which says: 'Retirement regulations, incorporation into Greek law of Directive 2012/27 of the European Parliament and of the Council', etc., has various Community directives, and ends up with 'other provisions'. So when we have a bill starting pensions, it goes to environmental issues and it ends up 'and other provisions', it is, if anything, a challenge for the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman to come and say that Members have referred to matters which do not concern the provisions of the draft law. You are the first to teach by putting in a bill that has provisions from too many different topics. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is taking place in a suffocating political context. It is during a debate to find the famous equivalents of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the famous parallel programme, the one you have put forward in the election and its contents have not been seen. You said so, you announced, you said the title, but the contents we are looking for, we are waiting for it, and it is a challenge from us to come and tell us in particular its content. Ladies and gentlemen, where we hear equivalents for citizens, we note new taxes on middle-income. Today's meeting coincides with the Commission's autumn forecast of the economies of the countries of the European Union. The capital for Greece is entitled "The uncertainty overturns the recovery of the economy". He mentions a recession for 2016 of 1.3%, a marginal increase in unemployment at the time the Commission acknowledges that the Greek economy had a positive outcome before the January 2015 elections. These are the results of the ten-month negotiation of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place during an international humanitarian crisis with our country at the centre. The naive and inexpensive statements of government officials, the amateur treatment of the refugee problem, made our country the main entrance gate of hundreds of refugees. The Government has proved incapable of developing an essential strategy to address this issue. It had to be over eight months before the Staff Government came to take the first package of measures on this particular problem. I shall refer to my position on three issues relating to the bill, first of all, in relation to the Minister of Education's statements on the Genocide of the Pontius. It is deeply challenging, unscrupulous, the Minister's statement, not only because it runs counter to the official decision of the Greek Parliament, which, as Minister of Government, has to support, not only because it has no scientific basis, not only because it overturns historical truth, but because it comes from the lips of politicians who have been unresponsible for the last five years for the reduction of wages, the abolition of allowances and many others. In the same sense, they deny a historic event, such as the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus, because they have been caught by historical chronology. I feel really embarrassed. It's not bad to have a wrong wording. In my opinion, it's not smart, but not to admit your mistake. And I expect the Ministry of Education's political leadership to admit its mistake. The second point I want to make relates to VAT on fuel and, above all, to farmers. I really don't know what to comment on. In Article 51, you are to raise the excise duty on farmers, farmers, farmers and fishermen from EUR 200 to EUR 66. In other words, you triple the cost of energy production in the primary sector. Since the average net income of rural families is around EUR 7,500 per year, this measure will be reduced by EUR 1 000 per year. Therefore, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government pays for dynamic strata from which you expect the growth machine to get ahead. Finally, I would like to refer to the provisions concerning the Ministry of Education and to say that I have repeatedly tabled two topical questions, for which the Ministry of Education's leadership was in a staggered state and did not come to answer them. These topical questions relate to student relocations. With the n. I had spoken here in the Greek Parliament last July and said that this amendment was wrong. But then you were in an arrogance and thought you had the solutions for everything. So you have come with this amendment and you are setting a unique criterion to get a transfer of economics when there are multiples and three families with average incomes that cannot be met in order to get their children relocated. I also want to point out that: there is what we tell the universities and the TEI "the three houses": When a family has two students in separate cities and the family lives in a third. If a family has an average income of 1500 euros, when you all know that it will need at least 1200 euros to live these two children and study, you will not get a transcription of one child and go to the city where the other is studying. And all of this from the sloppiness and inability of the government and its indifference to respond to issues that burn Greek families.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1054	Finish, Mr. Style.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1055	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's the last thing. I have tabled two amendments with the rest of my fellow Members of the New Democracy, concerning the abolition of 23% of VAT on education, the reintroduction of VAT to nursing homes from 23% to 13% and the adoption of the proposal on relocations to multitude families. We are voting against this bill in principle and we call on the government to return to cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1056	Mr. Panagiotopoulos will be speaking in the place of Mr. Davakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1057	Mr President, I would like to reply to something for half a minute for a clarification requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1058	Madam Minister, I said that at the end I will give the floor to all the ministers, except Mr Philly, who will speak for a certain eight-minute time. The rest of you collect what you have to say and answer in less time. Besides, we're coming to the end. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1059	Ladies and gentlemen, forty-five days have passed since the recent elections, and the Greek people can easily draw the inactivity of a substantial government project on the part of the Government. It has been forty-five days, but it has been almost ten months since our Greek fellow citizens trusted you with their fates in order to change that "greedy" and "asphyxiative" atmosphere, created by the memoranda that drowned the Greek people and was a loop in his neck. Unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated. Whoever we ask today in the country, there is no way that there is no way that there will be any illusions about how you should rule. There's inappropriate everywhere. What the government sees is the many words, the sayings, the criticisms against extradition, the expression of ideals, without a substance, a performance of work, a faint - if you like - of the societal situation which has been created in recent years. The airports have been frozen, the NRP is not moving, the major projects have been stopped because - I would say - positions and attitudes of the relevant Minister in relation to the issues that had already been completed, such as the construction of the Lefktra - Sparta road, which has been completed and, unfortunately, we are now sticking to the deletions and other small-scale technical projects. There is something you can see from the statements. Mr. Friends is a pity. I feel bad to repeat it, but we have to say it. He expressed opinions on genocide and ethnic cleansing, as the Greek people's only issues being those! Whether it is genocide or ethnic cleansing the question of the disappearance of Pontian Hellenism in a few years - hundreds of thousands of Greek Pontius have disappeared from the troops of the new Turks - it is a matter of historical and scientific, but the main thing is how the international community takes it. We've solved all the issues, and we've got those too! I don't know Mr. Philly's scientific quality. I know from his curriculum that he is a journalist who ran your party body. In any case, it is inhuman - but it is because of Mr Philis - to accept this attack by righteous and unjust, by those who exploit the historic phase, but also by those who are sensitive - and are many of our compatriots, we are all sensitive - to the drama of our Pontian brothers and to the other massacres suffered by this place, by Hellenism and by the Greek element from the neighbor, and for two-quarters to deal with it. I want to refer to two points in the bill. The 'Enhancement at home' programme is a programme that had gone very well by January 2015. I can tell you that we had sixty-five thousand applications in the programme and since January, which you took on, by September, we had only five hundred and twenty-seven. What's going on? What's gonna happen? How does this program go? You must leave the statements and look at the production of the work. As an example, even the certification of the energy auditor has not been carried out. You realise that issues that put the economy, construction companies and especially soften energy and ecologically, I would say, the Greek households, had to be a first priority for a Greek left government. That's what we don't see. Smart, characterization, complaints, 'you must not speak', 'forty years'. What forty years? Forty years you were buffoons? The CV of each of SYRIZA's colleagues does not have a term of office specific - and of course does - in your own party room, wherever they were each? Didn't you call the claims and benefits of any governments of the former major parties? Didn't you formulate the whole ideology of the Greek society's demand through trade unionism against government positions? The second issue is regional waste management plans. The Office, ladies and gentlemen, has frozen four public-private partnership projects and we do not know what is going on about waste. There are EUR 800 million in the new ESDP on this issue. Sadly, however, this, like the whole NSRF, is frozen. I would like to give you one example: the Court of Auditors, in which the case of solid waste in the Peloponnese was discussed, an area from which I come and which hurts the issue of solid waste, another was the position of the Ministry of Development and another was the position of the representative of the Ministry of the Environment. You understand what aalum is in this case. We have to end this with the issues of solid waste. We have issues that have been solved decades ago in Europe, and today we are also dealing with this. We must finally get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1060	Mr. Davakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1061	I shall conclude, Mr President. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1062	Oh, no. Two minutes, forget them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1063	Just a few seconds. On the issue of taxing beer there were small businesses that made us proud and were a different way of looking at the economy. You tax them without knowing why. You're talking about the OECD toolbox. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is not Gospel the OECD toolbox, much more for you. I close with the issue of abolishing the special tax on agricultural oil from 66 to 200 euros. My colleague from Larissa has made friendly efforts to justify this. We all have to understand - and I am addressing you, because I know that you, like all of us, have the same pain in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1064	Mr. Davakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1065	I'm done, Mr. President. We all have to understand that the agricultural sector is at the last step. We can no longer shake the nipple to the Greek farmer, because with all these measures we take, we make the life of the grim ones, so that there is no future for the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1066	Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary representative of ANELs, Mr Papachristopoulos, will now be given the floor. Mr. Karathanasopoulos will be followed by the Communist Party. Mr. Carras has been asking for the floor for two minutes, but because I know the matter, I may not have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1067	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1068	I'll give you the floor. Don't worry. Then I will give the floor to Mr Philly, who has not spoken about the bill for eight minutes as the Rules of Procedure say. I will ask the other ministers and I will give them the floor if they have anything to answer to colleagues for three minutes. A unanimous decision has already been taken on 22.30, which we will not follow exactly exactly. Mr. Papachristopoulos, do you get six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1069	Perhaps less, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1070	Because of medical co-operativeity, Mr. Papachristopoulos will accept six minutes of speech. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1071	Thank you, Mr President. I want to begin - because the dangers, zeroing and destruction are spreading epidemic and within this Chamber - with a news. It is signed by all the financial staff of the newspaper “KATHMERINI”. It's news today. It is neither yesterday nor yesterday, nor ten months ago. A million new posts in all airlines - and in AEGEAN - as a result of the 2016 good tourist season. The countries that are going to increase the number of visitors in Greece are more than ten, USA, Germany, France, etc. I start with this news, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a risk of depression from what it hears every day and I think it is unfair. I want to put forward a few facts which I said yesterday in my speech and I want to repeat them. The prerequisites were forty-eight. It's a heavy reality. I say again that I am the last person to be entitled to a pensioner or a citizen who is weaker than these measures. He's got all the world's own. And he's got all the world's trials to mess with us, because right now SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks are in government, though. Two billion is in great need. And this is the first time these 2 billion have been going to the market. Those who deal with finance know that. I would also like to put, as a reality, not the news of the CoR, the news of a monkey that Skourletis has not been justified, which is 100% false, by social media or I don't know what, but the news that at the moment we're talking about almost the recapitalisation of banks is given, with positive indicators from too many people and - those who know from an economy, I'm not an expert - with a lot of private interests. That means something. Regardless of the assessment of the recapitalisation, despite the fact that some insist. But this assessment by Monday too is over. I think it is a positive step. Some with the party glasses that they have - their right - see it differently. The reality is, however, different. And the weak layers of Greeks have nothing to fear from first home auctions - wait until Monday and you'll see it - and the equivalent to private education, which has so badly troubled us, is almost ravaged. This means simply Greek that after the recapitalisation, we go to debt regulation. Good guess from the debt arrangement. Already at the moment, two senior members of the European Central Bank are in favour of separating the recapitalisation from the assessment, which I consider to be a given one. "Go ahead," he says. And it's very important not to tire any deposit over 100,000 euros. Because we deliberately let it be under 100,000 euros, which is not the case at all. All because we're moving on to debt regulation. I will say again for once - 'for me violence brings violence', as Gandhi said - that I find almost unnecessary the conversation that has taken place here, but instead of others, etc., with a Parliament which reminded me of the raft that was going to the waterfall and party on the raft. Nothing's over for the country. We are negotiating and we are in this terrible effort. Let's not forget. Debt regulation for us is a key point. If they don't leave our neck nipple over 100 billion, we don't have any prospects. Can you hear me? That's right! No prospect! I am therefore focusing on really important aspects of this government. Can I say something? The government will be tested after that. I think a debt haircut will be done somehow. Then yes, be strict with us, if we cannot make use of the Juncker package that is 35 billion, if we cannot make use of Draghi's relaxation of over 20 billion, if we can do nothing of the 20 billion low surpluses, if we can do nothing for more than 20 billion of the NRP. Why am I telling you this? At the same time as the hit on tax evasion, interoperable, corruption, which some forget it here, I hear for apologies, we have to apologize. No, ladies and gentlemen. The measure should not be missing in this Chamber. Some others should have apologized for too much that has happened over the last forty years. They didn't. It's okay. For once again: The glorious field of glory is bright to be weaned by the atrocious Almighty of the media. Two, three bankers and five canals have put the political system in place for years to legislate for five hundred families. That's the truth! A lot of people are excluded in here, and I admit it. They're not all. It was really...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1072	No one has censured me, colleagues. He hasn't censored me and listen to me and you'll understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1073	It's not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1074	Don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1075	Please don't respond, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1077	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1078	Frequencies are not private. These are frequencies that belong to the Greek citizen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1079	You can say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1080	...and must be treated seriously in the Parliamentary Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1081	Don't go at least!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1082	That's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1083	But leave that now. There was really a challenge to see the New Democracy, the River...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1084	First table, you're on the channels!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1085	And you swear and go and beg!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1086	Listen to me. Don't interrupt me. I don't challenge you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1087	Ladies and gentlemen, let him finish. Mr. Papachristopoulos, we agreed for six minutes. Because you're being interrupted, I'm giving you another one, but hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1088	In the media bill, he writes an old one: "Who you go and who you leave." I don't want to say any more. But I want you to allow me, Mr President, because I have heard that I am far-right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1089	No, because the seven minutes were seven and a half. Please, Mr. Papachristopoulos, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1090	Good theatre! That's a good precaution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1091	Mr. Colleague, I've never caused anyone. And I haven't personally caused it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1092	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please don't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1093	I've never yelled, I've never criticized. I have too many objections. Don't do it. I mean, that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1094	And you're closing up with this, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1095	Leave me a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1096	I'll leave you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1097	I have heard today in this Chamber references to Panos Kammenos, the President of the Independent Greeks. I hear 'right', I hear it again, I hear it again and again. I want to say, without any tension, that the designation is easy, the arguments are difficult. I would like to remind you - and I conclude, Mr President - that it is the President of the Independent Greeks who spoke with names and addresses, who has now sent sixteen cases to the prosecutor, that is the one who has played a decisive role to be confiscated by some who have never touched the system. I would like to ask the Members who easily use this name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1098	Mr. Papachristopoulos, I would like to ask you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1099	I'm done, Mr. President. It was completely personal and I didn't interrupt anyone. I didn't interrupt. In this House, it is up to us, with arguments, to coexist with opposing views. The characterization is easy. The argument is very difficult. I don't want to say anything else. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1100	Before I give the floor to Mr Karathanasopoulos and because Mr Amyras and Mr Psarianos are here, and they will now understand what I want to say because I wanted the consent of someone from Potami, we deleted the phrase of the colleague who was offensive to Mr Theodorakis and I think we had to erase the next dialogue, because the historian of the future will read the dialogues and will not understand why they were. That's the way it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1101	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1102	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1103	Thank you very much. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1104	Thank you, Mr President. We have followed from the rest of the House a barren controversy. A curtain has been unfolded to cover their agreement on the substance. Government and other opposition parties agree with the government's main choices, they agree with this policy. They've voted for it. In order to develop this curry, it was Mr Philly's statements that opened the way for a disorientation plan, which we presented as a party from the start. It is a project of disorientation convenient to the government, because it facilitates it, helps it to cover up the escalation of the anti-population attack, which is also under way in this bill, but also in its overall policy. It is convenient for Civicism, PASOK or Potami, because you show them that they are opposed to the government, and in essence they are in line with government policy. They've voted for it. Indeed, not only have they voted for it, but as government parties - at least the New Democracy and the PASOK - in the past period they have implemented it. They opened their way to the memoranda and to anti-grass policies. This is an attempt to disorientate, which has also been exploited by the ideological children of the Nazi theory, namely the Golden Dawn, of this theory responsible for atrocities and genocide, because he hates man. In fact, the golden ones also had the courage to appear as a patriotic force. Who? These are the descendants, the contributors of the conquerors, the nazis. They also appeared as a patriotic force. If that's possible! Of course, as a JRC, we have denounced from the first moment the attack the New Democracy MP has been attacked by the admirers of this Nazi ideology. At the same time, however, we can see that, apart from the issue of barren political conflicts, the government is coping with its policy, the policy of the previous governments and is continuing with it - indeed, a step further and anti-grassroots measures which have been difficult to implement today by the previous governments are more capable, more effective and more effective in implementing them - it has copied with the guilty tactics of the previous governments. So what do we observe? We see a flood of unrelated amendments. You copy them! You follow them faithfully, by foot! Follow the same practice. You do what the previous ones have done. In fact, we denounce these methods as authoritarian on the substance. And why are authoritarian methods? Because we do not have the opportunity to look at them, but also to place ourselves on the substance of these amendments. It is clear that this bill very easily reflects the needs of capital, monopolistic groups, but includes the memorandum prerequisites. For example, it implements a small part of the OECD toolbox. The next measures, which are planned, will come to the next prerequisites for the next few days. It also includes - after all, this is the main body - the European directive on energy savings. In fact, we heard criticism from both the government and the Minister: “Why does the JRC not accept this directive? Is it against energy saving? Will he not give work to workers, workers and builders?" But what is the main issue, Minister, in an area that has a huge wealth of energy sources and at a time when technology can use all of these energy sources? The main issue is that while there is this wealth of energy sources, while these energy sources can be exploited, there are at the same time extensive popular strata that live in conditions of energy poverty. Are we really going to talk about this? Are we going to talk about who's responsible? Is this the dominant and the primary, that is, that in winter cannot extensively face the cold? We are going to put it as a matter of cutting off the current, why can't they pay it, that they can't meet basic needs? So who's responsible for this? Of course, it is political responsibility. But, above all, it is primarily responsible for the fact that, in capitalism, energy, a social asset, is transformed into a commodity. And it is precisely this case that does not allow the people's family to meet its needs. She turns this merchandise into a profit. That's the one prisoner. The second is the European Union's liberation policy, which is further exacerbating the situation. It is the introduction of RES and their exploitation by the monopolist groups, which increased the energy costs for the people's families. So while taking advantage of green technologies and saving energy could really help to improve the living conditions of the people, in today's conditions they are a tool to stimulate capitalist growth and strengthen capitalist profit. That is why they have as their priority targets in terms of profitability rather than satisfying people's needs. Because if you had this as a priority, that is to satisfy the people's needs, you would put other issues as a primate. For example, you would put an earthquake shield or anti-military protection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These measures, these legislations and directives are capital priorities and are made to a requirement of capital. That is why you are exempting air transport or shipping, as if they were not polluting the environment, as if they were allowed to bear on the environment. In fact, the shipowners were given the right, with the amendment of the Minister for Maritime Affairs, to continue to have one more year on the coastlines and socks. And these shipowners can also have duty-free oil, while bringing an article on farmers, with which you are increasing the excise duty on oil, agricultural products, from EUR 66 to EUR 200 and in the next year, after a year, will go to EUR 330. Who are you doing this for? To serve farmers and production, or to lead to accelerating the disembodiment of the poor medium-sized farm and the concentration of agricultural production on minimum capitalist groups? From this point of view - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - we as a JRC and in principle and on the articles we have this position and we will vote against most of these articles, all of the logic they put forward, and we will be very specific in this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1105	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1106	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1107	Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen. I'll give Mr. Carras for one, two minutes, because he's spoken and won't need any more time. The Minister for the Environment will then inform us of the amendment. In fact, she has received my appeal and the President and will normally be coming next week. But I will give him the floor to inform the House. So, Mr Carras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1108	Mr President, I too would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1109	Thank you, Mr President. It was not my intention to be placed and seconded. For one hour, however, a three-page legislative improvement text was distributed which supplements Mr Alexiades's amendment on the choice of cases for tax control. First of all, I should like to point out that, when we say 'legislative improvement', we are talking about either rectifying articles, correcting verbal, verbal errors or simple supplements. A text which adds nine paragraphs to a previous article is not a legislative improvement, but an amendment, which has to follow the normal course of the Rules of Procedure. Regardless of this, however, I am very concerned about the fact that, with the provisions of the tax authority, the officials of the tax authority are alleged to be liable, Mr President, for limitations, but it is lifting the limitation - and obviously there are hypocritical cases - and it says that they have civil or disciplinary or criminal liability for limitation, since they have not been suspended by means of a notification of a control sheet, etc. So in the sense of immunity in cases and in the tax authority's staff, because it prejudges - a word that I do not know - it says'should prejudge cases to be checked' - cases to be checked, the rest of what is happening? Beyond the fact that it is not an amendment, the next ones are left to be deleted? It's a big question. It upsets Greece the issue of tax evasion, Mr President, and Mr Alexiadis or other Minister must respond to this issue. In conclusion, because I am not abusing time, I would like to say that the Union of Centres shares our voice with the other groups of this House and condemn the attack on Mr Kumucaco. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1110	Thank you, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1111	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1112	Mr President, I too would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1113	Mr. Theochari, what are you asking for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1114	I have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1115	Oh, no. Deuteronology, Mr. Theochari...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1116	I would like two minutes for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1117	Just a minute, Mr. Theochari. The time has come for the amendments. To close with the Minister and immediately after the amendments I will give the floor to the representatives of the parties. Don't worry. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for eight minutes, as the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1118	On the bill, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1119	The bill. Now it's a regular speech. Then the ministers will have the floor for two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1120	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to the interventions of the representatives of the parties and all colleagues on the provisions on education in the drafting of legislation. I have to make it clear that these are provisions which are dictated by urgent problems in the middle and primary education. This is not an overall operating framework. Soon we will be able, through national and social dialogue, to discuss the need for major reforms and divisions in education or, before Christmas, to discuss issues relating to administrative loose ends, in order to move forward with more decisive steps in a public school, corresponding to the demands of society, in a public and democratic school. With the proposed regulations we seek to work more effectively on regional service councils. The new members will be chosen transparently and in a manner that is of public interest. There will be a ministerial decision. It is clear that the hereditary institution is not affected. The appointed members will simply be judged through procedures - I repeat - transparent and aptitude. It was considered that the government, the mechanism, the government's political leadership to choose party persons, while until now the former administrations of the Ministry have been overly suspicious. It's a argument...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1121	Can you tell us what the criteria are?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1122	You're welcome, Mrs. Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1123	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1124	What are the criteria, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1125	Is it possible, Mrs Christophilopoulou, to be with the Golden Dawn and with this subject, in any case?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1126	In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1127	Is that possible? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1128	What are the criteria?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1129	You have a parliamentary representative, he can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1130	He doesn't want to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1131	If that's possible! Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1132	What's the criterion?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1133	The criterion is 15 years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1134	There's a law!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1135	I don't want to answer that. Mrs. Christophilopoulou speaks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1136	There are criteria!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1137	Mrs Christophilopoulou speaks as the deep state of PASOK in education!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1138	Mrs Christophilopoulou, you are an old MP, and please don't make this scene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1139	There's a law! There are criteria!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1140	You have, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, lost your temper. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1141	Mrs Christophilopoulou, the phrase you are asking has been heard and it has also been recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1142	The criterion that exists is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1143	To say the criteria!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1144	Good! We can barely force him!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1145	...at least 15 years of service. We do not put any other criteria that restrict the scope of candidates. In other words, we do not want to repeat what has happened in the past, to exclude a large majority of teachers from training. We want a wider choice. There has also been a view from the point of view of the Potamius - I note it - which accepts the need, as far as I can see, to change what is currently in the service councils, unlike Mrs Christophilopoulou who does not accept it. It's in favour of the regime, as I understand it. But the river has put forward a proposal which is worthwhile. It says that, instead of being one of all the teachers in each region, who have at least 15 years of pre-service - a large number of people and have a great choice - we have to identify and say so by lot of the twenty oldest teachers in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1146	Public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1147	Publicly, not privately. Apparently, with the proposal that the river makes... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mrs. Christophilopoulou, this battle for the training establishment? Is that possible? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But don't you get it? Is that possible? You've been out all this time! Stop it! Stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1148	What's the training establishment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1149	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, I don't recognize you! You're an old colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1150	The river has put forward a very interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1151	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1152	Potami made an interesting proposal: Not to be elected, but to close the two council members from a list of twenty oldest teachers per region. Obviously, with this proposal from the Potamius - which I repeat wants a thought - the principle of sovereignty is being relied on. Because instead of making choices on the basis of their criteria and their value, in public, I repeat, a procedure, and not without saying who the candidates are, in secret and inviting us, he proposes the procedure to draw from the twenty who happen to be the oldest. Obviously this is a regression in the process of antiquity selection and not as Potami says - and we agree on other occasions - in the process with meriting selection criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1153	With what merits?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1154	Now we'll all be judged by choice. And I repeat that there will be public procedures and the invitation and the announcement and qualifications of the candidates. In relation to the issue of partyism, which is true that without having the earliest good witness of PASOK, PASOK brings it here all the time - and the New Democracy -, the prototypes of the party state in our country, who shed crocodile tears with jokes of the press that SYRIZA is partying to public and, in particular, education. Listen to something. We didn't appoint school directors. We trusted the teachers' crisis. A vote was taken and the school directors of the primary school units were selected. This is not partisanism. In fact, teachers were selected without doubt. You said this thing would dismantle education. She didn't break it. On the contrary, he created positive consensus and cooperation in each school unit, and I repeat, in any case destabilizes and proves how hypocritical the party rhetoric of PASOK and the New Democracy is. SYRIZA has also passed a bill providing that such a procedure will be followed for the election of educational directors, fifty-eight primary and fifty-eight secondary schools throughout the country. And that's where they're against PASOK and New Democracy and they think what? What for? The elected directors of all the educational directors and assistant directors of the schools will vote to elect the training directors. So we accept improvements, no objections, but it is not our key element, our main aim, as you said, of party abundance. Everyone votes. What party aliment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1155	Apologise to the Pontians!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1156	Listen, it is clear that we are fighting a great deal to gain greater validity, credibility, public school. This does not like some who had taken the lead in the collapse of education in the past, in the sense that there are symptoms of an undeclared choice, that is to say, to create an incorrect picture of education and often to depreciate public school and education. In these political forces, we understand that we do not like the battle we are fighting for even more reliable public school. And this battle started on the first day of this year. Because we inherited broken schools in relation to appointments. For so many years, about thirty thousand teachers have been retired and there is no intake in public schools. We tried to deal with the phenomenon of gaps, we were normalising the situation. This year, compared to last year, we hire twenty-two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-four-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, four-three-three-three-three-three-three-sholds, compared to eighteen-three-three-three, four-three-three, four-three-three-sholds, one-three, four-three-three-three-three-three, one-three, one-three-three, one-three, one-three-three, four-three-three-three-three. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In circumstances, indeed, budgetary difficulties, the school was a priority, education will be a priority, health will be a priority, public administration will be a priority. This means development with a social forum, a philosophical and a democratic one. And not development in favour of private interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1157	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1158	You do not like this policy that we are pursuing in the field of education, and that is why you have made the aim of your attacks on the Ministry of Education and the government's education policy. It won't pass you. Public schools will become more prestigious, through the contribution of the Greek citizen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1159	Giant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1160	Apologise to the Pontius.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1161	Mr. Friend, I have to tell you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1162	I'll be right over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1163	Mr. Philie, time has been overcovered by three minutes. Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1164	Ladies and gentlemen, a few proposals have been made and amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1165	Please have a minute, please, to hear about the amendments, if there is any agreement on this aspect too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1166	I have listened to Mr Fortsakis, who referred to the amendment with a general number 17 and a special 3, concerning the recruitment of managers of the tourism sector, from formalising foreign universities with equal degrees recognised by the IATA. Your proposal, Mr Fortsakis, is correct and we accept it. Secondly, there is a proposal to increase the criteria for these relocations and these criteria to relate to a greater sensitivity, the island area. We know what an island area means, we know what it means to the crisis that children have in the islands. We will deal with it, we will study it sensitively. We can't make it acceptable right now. We haven't studied this. The issues concerning education on the islands, this blessed peculiarity that our country has, we are dealing with them at a cost and we are doing well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1167	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1168	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1169	It's over, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1170	I shall conclude, Mr President. There was a proposal on the question of university evaluation. Indeed, some incidents that took place the day before yesterday at the University of Athens are doomed. We are not against the university acting with its own responsibility in matters of evaluation or other matters of operation. No one can stop these procedures when the university itself chooses to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1171	Mr. Philly, please. I can't be patient anymore. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1172	I'll be right over. Mr President, the education bill will come soon, as will the research bill. There is work that we have started in the field of education. In special education this year, we get twice as high as last year's number of deputies. It'll be a priority in education. One if permanent staff are recruited this year, they will be in special training. Recruitment in special education will be a priority, because we are aware of the great social injustice caused to the detriment of children with disabilities, to the detriment of their families. We are aware of the heroism of teachers, teachers and assistant staff in these areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1173	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1174	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that we are not politicising, as you are doing, nor are we mourning the ruins of your party state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1175	You're cowardly!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1176	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1177	We have work, we have a mission, we have a goal of rectifying, improving public education. You can't stand this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1178	Apologise to the Pontians!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1179	Apologise to the Pontians!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1180	Rejoice with the Minister's education!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1181	Shame on you! We've got slaughtered. They were slaughtering the Greeks. You're giving arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1182	Ladies and gentlemen, sit down and listen. Mr. Kasapidis, you cannot impose neither one of us nor any of us to apologize. He doesn't want to ask, we're done. What can we do now? The ministers are ahead of them, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but they have asked for the floor - and I will give them the floor later - Mr Panayotaros for two minutes and Mr Brutsis for two more minutes. Mr. Skourletis, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1184	Good. I have promised Mr Tsironi to speak first. Mr. Chironi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who does not understand that our amendment was more than urgent. I did not have the time to place myself on the substance. I intended to do so in my speech, but at the request of the Bureau, to place the other parliamentary representatives, we agreed with the Prime Minister to table the amendment in the next bill to give the opportunity for more substantial dialogue. I hope, of course, that this does not mean that a man will lose his home because of this few months' delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1186	Get her through today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1187	Thank you very much, Minister, so this is not the case tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1188	Mr President, I have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1189	Please, Mr. Maniotis. The amendment has been withdrawn, you will be able to speak. Mr. Apostle has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1190	Mr President, please, in a consensual climate, because many colleagues are involved in agriculture, it is very positive that the agricultural world must realise that there is now an interest in rural activity in this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1191	And that's the first time? And that's your first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1192	Now is there an interest in farms? There's always been!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1193	Because, therefore, I am essentially addressing the forces which are in favour of the European process, we have all agreed together and voted for an agreement which does indeed have painful points for farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1194	You voted for the deal. We voted on the country's stay in the euro area!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1195	You brought this! The deal is yours! You negotiated!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1196	Please! Do you want us to get to two o'clock? Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1197	So from our side, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of elections and after the elections we said to the rural world that we will try to ease the impact.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1198	Put the equivalents to see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1199	Let me talk for a minute, finally! We are therefore saying very simply to farmers that we will use books of revenue and expenditure as instruments first. For example, we are now discussing the excise duty on oil for sectors such as plant production that are high energy costs, the cost of oil. You realise that by registering a large amount of the cost of production, this at the same time reduces the taxable material that can be accounted for between revenue and expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1200	He doubled the tax then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1201	From there on, therefore, our tools are also: First, the collection of VAT that will be incurred by keeping books of revenue and expenditure at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1202	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1203	Mr President, what does this have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1204	Please, this thing is incomprehensible. I have not caused anyone, I just have to say the government's views on a matter the world expects. You were given the opportunity. Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1205	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1206	So the collectivity of VAT to be collected through the keeping of revenue and expenditure books...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1207	Do you feel that those watching by the receivers understand what happens? Nor are they recorded in the Minutes for the history of the future nor does anyone understand where we can be watched by television. There is the parliamentary representative who will take the floor and speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1208	So we are going on to say that a second aspect is the definition of the farmer's profession, that is, the one we say in the main profession of a farmer being treated differently from that of tax. So, secondly, we are going to negotiate something, which is what we are asked for in the agreement. Because there has really been an issue of late payment, you all know that every time the common agricultural policy changes, because the data are completely different, there is a delay. In all previous cases advance payments had never been paid before 15 December. We're just saying, at the end of November, the advances will be paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1209	Mr. Apostle, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1210	...and will reach up to 70%, 75% maybe even 90%. Also, all loose ends since 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1211	Mr. Apostle, you do not answer a timely question. You're very welcome. You asked me for the floor to give you detailed answers on the part of the bill that concerns you and not every scientist of your Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1212	Mr President, half the time I used.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1213	Good. Wait a minute and please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1214	I conclude, therefore, by saying that all these payments will be made by the end of the year and relate to unfinished payments by the end of 2014. The last thing I have to tell you is that we have found fines, charges of over 3 billion. In this document that I have received today, it says that if the issue of charges is not dealt with, the agricultural sector will also be changed to Koropian by imposing fines on a daily basis. This is what we have taken, ladies and gentlemen, and bear in mind that we are fighting great battles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1215	Thank you very much. Mr Chironis, who will give clarification at first, will have the floor for three minutes. The Minister for Education, although I assume that he should have been covered by the Minister, Mr. Phile, will have three minutes. Mrs. Fotou, on what subject? You're not on the list of ministers that the government has given me for today's bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1216	For Chapter 6.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1217	Have a seat last. You'll tell me on what subject. Mr. Chironis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1218	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to the remarks I have heard, in particular Article 31 on the harmonisation of regional projects in the national plan, because it is the only thing I have heard. They really made me an excellent impression two things. Firstly, the tape is stuck in the fact that the self-sufficiency of the regions is being violated. I would like to make it clear that this is already the case with Mr von Wogau. There is no self-respect for the regions, because the law expressly states that there is no self-respect for the law. The regional plans must be harmonized in the national plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1219	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1220	Let me make something clear. I have never interrupted a speaker and whoever is interrupting a speaker, simply suggests his treatment. This is clear and that is what the Greek people understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1221	What did Constantopoulou do? What did the Army do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1222	You have spoken, ma'am, more than all the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1223	Mr. Chironis at least didn't speak at all today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1224	Go, go, go, go, go, go! Go, go, go, go, go, go! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1225	We are therefore clear that there are European directives on the hot issue of waste and there is a national plan to harmonize regional areas. All we do is to clarify the legal procedure by which we harmonize with a CSM. It is also a question of harmonisation. The plans shall be drawn up as before and approved by the regions as before. It doesn't change anything. I shall raise a second point and conclude, Mr President, so that I do not get tired. We have heard about spatial planning that it is first and foremost heard and unconstitutional that they will change in an area of factors of construction or use. Where did that sound, colleagues? Do you want to say whoever you are scientists, peasants or architects, that you've never seen in the Attica stadium changing construction factors? Haven't you ever seen it? Has it never happened to increase by charging old owners who built with the old rates, or to reduce captives? For the first time I hear it's unconstitutional and will raise compensation. To raise compensation, then, because I built a house at a very low rate and in front of me were built mathematics later. I'm finishing here, but a little serious as opposition. I'll finish with one thing. At the disposal of a consensus that always holds my culture, when I heard the objections, I asked the opposition if it has a better proposal on what we have proposed on the substance, and if the objection is there, to tell us. And what did we hear? "We" says "As an Opposition, we won't do your job. We will not bring any proposals.' Thank you. You show how constructive you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1226	Well, the Minister of Education has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1227	I would not have taken the floor if Mr Stylus did not make reference to a timely question he has submitted to us about the relocations. I declared a coma last Friday, 'cause I just had a coma. I was in Patras because my father was running. On Monday, his question will be answered at all points, so that I don't take time to answer it now. A second point: because a lot has been heard at the time of the Minister, Mr. Philis, in a transitional bill that we will table, there will be various problems, which we are trying to resolve: how public education has been used for too many years, how many problems the system has loaded and how it has left doors for private education open from all sides. A third point and I shall end: it is not an honour to anyone in this House. He doesn't look for a honor to anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1228	Not judging the whole House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1229	...you're letting me finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1230	Oh, no! You can't insult the whole House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1231	Would you let me finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1232	Find out that Parliament does not insult it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1233	When there are inside parties that operate in a fascist way and whose power we saw...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1234	Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1235	Take care, then, of the whole House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1236	...and today to defenseless people, when we see the nation's barracks and patrio-familiarity to some extent...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1237	It's not the whole House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1238	Let me finish! Why don't you leave me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1239	Minister, you asked for the floor on the bill and to answer Mr. Stylus...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1240	Be careful, because you don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1241	I said it is not an honour for the former Minister of Education to say "the aspects of the scientists are paid for and they cause us problems".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1242	Mr President, with what he says about the Greek Parliament! He's been found now and he's talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1243	When we speak this way in this House, we create a problem of democracy. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1244	But is it possible to talk like that? Mercy! Come on, get serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1245	Come on, Mrs. Bakoyannis. What did he say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1246	I heard her very well what she said. Did we lose our measure anymore? Come on, Sias! We got into this House and we don't know what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1247	Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for two minutes to tell us the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1248	Let me see what else I hear now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1249	Mr. Panayotaros, Mr. Brutsis, Mr. Theocharis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1250	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1251	Mr. Maniotis, the Parliamentary Representatives are taking the floor. I can't give you the floor, only Mr. Theocharopoulos can speak if he wants. I cannot open a list of Members. You know that, and I'm not going to. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1252	Mr President, it relates to Rule 37, "Questions of the Education and Rehabilitation Centre", and the observations of many Members of the Staff Regulations and of the non-minor opposition, which deal repeatedly with the fact that we are changing the method of financing the remuneration of the president of the CEFT and the board of directors. So I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a '98 PASOK law'. We have not touched on this paragraph. One of the prisoners, to figure out who exactly was legislating and how. Secondly, I categorically state that we will not use it at all. What we have changed and all we have amended was the recommendation of the three members of the board of directors appointed by the Minister. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1253	Well, Mr. Theocharopoulos gives his position to Mr. Maniatis, and therefore fourth in turn he will speak on behalf of the PASOK - DIMAR on the subject of the particular situation that Mr Manatis wants, to which I shall also give the floor for two minutes. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1254	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to denounce the Minister of Protest, Mr. Toska, as a liar and a slander, who made statements and targeted an entire party, the Golden Dawn for the incidents that took place this afternoon. And to cover his gave, or rather his Stalinistic empathy with the Golden Dawn, he commanded his existing ones to start invoking, telephone calls from known, unknown, unrelated and irrelevant. They took a man at the Tower of Elijah and invited him to go to the GAAP, because - he says - he was in the incident. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] These are the shameful ones, this is the left democracy that you so much like. You're passing through!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1255	Mr. Ioannis Brutsis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1256	Mr President, if I speak for a few seconds more, I ask for your grace.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1257	Mr Brutsi, there is a unanimous decision and what I do from now on is by way of derogation from the unanimous decision. So you have the floor for two minutes, just like others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1258	Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the process is being completed. Soon we enter the roll-call vote and the government's outstandingity, namely the Minister of Finance for 23%, as far as education is concerned, remains open. I repeat, in the amendment introduced today by the Government, Mr Alexiadis, and the fines are deleted and we have agreed, the deadlines are changed and we have agreed, the main tax remains. In fact, although it is scientifically qualified - and I inform you - it suggests that VAT 23% remains, when the New Democracy, all the Members of Parliament, we have tabled an amendment and we ask for your support to be abolished. Secondly, you tabled an amendment, Mr Alexiadis, called the 'Legal improvement'. In fact, this is an amendment, Mr President, and you should be more careful. In the last article - and I draw attention to everyone - it has a provision behind which very important issues relating to the economy of the country are hidden. Through the provision, Mr Alexiadis, for the first time, I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism - and here I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism - that they will be tabling it at the end of the year and that information is said about tens of thousands of tax cases which are still pending. That's the one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1259	Since when are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1260	Secondly, the valuation of these loose ends is several hundred million euros. I ask the Minister, who is present, to answer the following: firstly, why is this the first time? Second, who imposed it on them? Third, why did he accept it? Fourth, how many tax cases are they? Fifth, how many hundreds of millions will lose the public? Mr President, we are talking at a critical economic period for the country. It cannot come to nothing but five of such a serious amendment, and not legislative improvements, and accept it simply and resign and look at me in this way and do not allow me to speak. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall proceed, Mr President. Mrs. Gerovali is here. If he was a congressman, I wouldn't be addressing him. But you're Minister. A few hours ago you made an inappropriate, unacceptable statement against the New Democracy. You are too young to put this big line in your mouth, New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1261	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1262	Just, Mr President, New Democracy is the party that brought democracy to Greece with struggles, with sacrifices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1263	We know you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1264	That's your level.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1265	Close, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1266	Two minutes, Mr. President. The manoeuvre is big. I request the Minister or withdraw or apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1267	You don't have to ask, he has asked for the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1268	As far as Mr Philly is concerned, because his presence here from a parliamentary step, what he said, the applause from the SYRIZA Members, did not just do what was a slip, but confirms that he believes it. One word I'll tell the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1269	On the bill, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1270	No one spoke of the bill. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1271	Now you've got it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1272	The New Democracy accounts for Mr. Friend are open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1273	Your Honor, not like this!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1274	First of all, I will ask Mr Alexiadis, but you will answer later. First theme was yours. Mrs. Gerovali's point was the last one. You will answer the substance. If that is really the case and you accept that it is something like this, I would like to appeal to you - given that we have parliamentary work in this House on Wednesday and Thursday - if you would like, like Mr Tsironis, to withdraw it tonight and bring it on Wednesday or Thursday and discuss it in committees with greater comfort. Because it can be good and there is no reason to be tension and not to vote in favour. It's the initiative to you. I'm making the appeal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1275	Mr President, first of all I want to clarify the question of VAT in education. I said it before, but the same argument is repeated. I will repeat the same answer. I wonder how the New Democracy has not yet brought an amendment to abolish the ENPI and a number of other tax provisions that it had brought in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1276	You do that, you remove him. We don't want to steal your glory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1277	We left that for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1278	Minister, when you do not answer questions and speak in general, they are always created. This isn't the first time this is happening. And you do the same, the same things backwards. Please. It went well. Mr. Skourletis said he wouldn't talk about getting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1279	I will respond to the amendment, but I hope I do not interrupt and have no such behaviour again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1280	Oh, no. And don't forget the appeal I made to you. Maybe it's better this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1281	On the subject of VAT in education, quite clearly, the amendment we are bringing to address, firstly, the legal issue of which we gave the previous period of time, because there was a legal gap and we had to cover it. First of all, then, we're covering up this void. Second, we're covering the void we've had. For the services, quite rightly, since there was no law, they have put fines, and now we are coming and we are correcting this issue. This provision does not remove and we do not accept the amendment to abolish VAT. It is very clear where this issue is at the moment. The government at the moment does not bring such a provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1282	Understood. Let's go to the next one. The first two, I think, are unanimously supported. You didn't have to develop them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1283	There is nothing else to repeat here, however much the same arguments are repeated. As far as the second question is concerned. It is the legal shield of the audit bodies by persecution they have had on these issues. There is no question of limitations for 2015, because the parliament passed and extended the cases, for which orders for inspection have been issued or for appeals, until 31-12-2016. But here - as we agreed on n. 4336 - we are bringing the implementation of the prerequisites that said we should legally shield the auditors from the issues of limitations and other sanctions. And as you know very well, in another provision in the bill, there is now much better formulated than in the past how to prioritise controls. Instead of dealing with the control mechanism with cases which did not pay taxes and which did not give rise to audits, it will be prioritised by specific criteria and the whole process will normally proceed. That's all. There's no science fiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1284	That's what the auditors are covering! It's never happened before!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1285	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1286	Mr President, I now answer the question and you have seen parliamentary behaviour. You're looking at behavior now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1287	This is the first time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1288	Keep going, you guys are out there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1289	Mr. Colleague, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1290	To close, to say that there is no question of limitation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1291	If there's no question of limitation, why do you put it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1292	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1293	The Government raised the question of the deletion of lists. He extended the limitations and the next period we will complete these checks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1294	Mr. Alexiadis, I'm coming back. Listen to me. If that is exactly the case - I do not know, I want to believe that it is so - you realize that there would be broad consensus. That's the first. Secondly, what with the experience of 20 years in this House is not called a legislative improvement, please! It's an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1295	Well done, Mr. President! That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1296	If there is no time limit for suffocators, please bring it to the committee on Wednesday, and if that is the case, I think it will be voted on by all the wings. You are wrong with your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1297	Mr President, there is a limitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1298	Mr President, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1299	You have produced the amendment 'legislative improvement'!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1300	The Minister doesn't want her to be withdrawn. The House will vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1301	Do you understand what you're voting for, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1302	Will you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1303	We don't need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1304	Mrs Gerovalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1305	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's appeal to you to come together quickly. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Let me finish, please. Don't make a arena for the House. I'm returning it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1306	Calm down! You get your ass together!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1307	"Was it to recover?"? Is that what you left-wing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1308	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1309	Yes, but now you're a good parliamentarian, you didn't need the beginning. Go ahead on the substance and answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1310	I've been given characterizations, where should we be asking for how many convictions? Look, I referred to my statement in Mr Georgiadis' tweet that he did and said that the Pontius will ask for the head on Mr. Friends' table tomorrow afternoon in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1311	That's not what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1312	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1313	That's not what he said. You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1314	Mr. Anastasiades! Let me answer that later. Why are you interrupting? After all the Members of Parliament, especially the region, told the Bureau to close early, I do not understand you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1315	So I commented...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1316	Will the Government Representative answer on tweet? Doesn't he have another job? Listen, I "responded to the tweet"!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1317	Anything I want to answer, Mrs. Vulture. Whatever I want you to be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1318	Mrs. Gerovali, don't answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1319	If you don't stop them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1320	You're talking about the substance. Don't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1321	So I said in my statement - and I will repeat it - that the extreme right, the people who act against democracy, against parliamentarianism, do not look at what they have in front of them. So they didn't find Mr. Friend's head this afternoon in the Constitution and took Mr. Kumucaku's head. That's a danger to democracy... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You need to shield democracy and not...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1322	In the previous House, you were talking about hanging! Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1323	Mr. Kikilia, we didn't put you as guardian in this House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1324	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1325	Desperate...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1326	Mr. Kikilia, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1327	That's your political culture, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1328	Mrs. Gerovali, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1329	I'm hanging up. I would like to say again to my fellow Members that they do not get carried away. They have elections, we understand anguish, we understand controversy, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1330	Listen, Minister. Close on the substance, because you came here tonight to vote, but everyone else is two days here. Answer, please, and close. The rest won't be needed. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1331	So I understand. I can give an excuse. You've given an exaggeration to your indignation, and I think you've been dragged into it and enclaved. I invite you to reconsider.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1332	Mr. Harris Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1333	Mr President, it is 23.00 hours. Cut them off. Learning to keep hours once!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1334	Mr Yakumato, do not tell the Bureau, no matter who sits here. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1335	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, after expressly condemning the masculine attack on Mr Kumucaco, I will make the difference and deal with the issues of the draft law which we have to vote on. Firstly, we lived to see the first economist environmental minister suspending the demolition of arbitrary demolitions. It has been withdrawn, and we welcome that positively.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1336	Not at all, go to Luca and see what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1337	But don't come back in a hurry in an irrelevant bill. To come to the forest maps bill where it gives a definitive solution once and for all to the problem. We don't solve problems with extensions all the time. And because I have seen the Minister deal with and hope that no one will lose his home in the meantime to think about the government's amendment to the ship-removal limits and wish that the Minister should not happen, as we have seen in the past, from ships which are allowed to continue on routes. Secondly, Mr Alexiadis brings an amendment to normal and not legislative improvements and will be voted on by colleagues and will provide immunity. You will provide immunity through legislative improvement. I could agree with her. You know that I was in this position and I think that, in order for the work of the officials of the General Secretariat of Public Income to be properly done, they should also be given some protection. We have seen it in practice difficult for their work. But, Minister, I too call for you to withdraw it and bring it in a proper procedure to be discussed. You have to withdraw it twice, because you will be accused of having an extermination plan when the previous Secretary-General left without this immunity. Are you emptied of your position, now bring immunity to the next one who will be your chosen one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1338	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1339	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1340	Is that a plan? You've got to do things right at last. It's not just intentions. And the process and the results are important. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1341	Mr. Theochari, all right, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1342	I'm hanging up. Third and last. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Check it out! Not double and triple.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1343	Ladies and gentlemen, now you are interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1344	I shall close, Mr President, with what Mr Apostle said about farmers. Mr. Apostle told us that the tool of "Government - Pinocchio" will be revenue - expenses. Revenues - costs, someone tells him that they have already been legislated for farmers by the former Government of New Democracy and PASOK. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Of course it should, but it's already been done. Will you legislate what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1345	You are speaking to the Bureau and to the Government, not to colleagues. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1346	The 'Government - Pinocchio' and Mr Apostolos have one tool, the only instrument is farmers. Their only tool is the unemployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1347	Don't yell and get hurt. [[Applause - laughers in the Chamber]] We all sound better when we talk quieter. Because I saw you and you're red, and I was scared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1348	Thank you. So the only instrument of government is the Greek people, it is farmers, it is the unemployed, it is the pensioners who you have been mocking for decades and especially for the last five years. Unfortunately, you keep making fun of them. If the government does not change the question of starting to speak truths to the Greek people, then the nemesis comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1349	We're closing. On behalf of the Democratic Alliance, Mr. Maniotis will speak. There has been a change of place with Mr. Theocharopoulos, the relevant paper has also come. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1350	Mr President, on behalf of the Democratic Alliance I shall make an exception. I will not go to the government, I will address the Bureau and colleagues of the ruling majority. I am not addressing the government because the two issues to which I am going to refer go beyond my view are the possibilities for one person to deal with two top, very important issues in the form of legal corrections in one case and in the form of almost midnight amendments in the other. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 921a]] [[To enter page 922a]] [[To enter page 924 a]] In my position, at the outset and at the outset, I said something very simple about the provision that gives the Secretary-General of Public Revenue the right to decide - an appointed political person - and the criteria on which to prioritise the checks on tax matters and not just on the criteria, but on the cases themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept any appointed political person from any government at will, not, in its own will, to set criteria for management and control the administration, if it is doing its job properly and implements the criteria, but to decide arbitrarily, although one-faced body, which is not accountable anywhere for tax rulings of hundreds of millions of dollars? Will you vote for that? I ask you directly. Because we are no longer talking about giving the opportunity to determine the methodology and criteria, but to decide on its own, overcoming the administration, the Secretary-General. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] It concerns you whether you will vote for it. We, Minister, refuse to discuss this in the form of a legislative improvement, and we do not think we should vote in favour of it. Mr President, I would also like to refer to the second issue, which goes beyond any perverse imagination. I am referring to the constitutional coup, the abortion which says that on forest land, where final judicial decisions exist, i.e. where Greek justice has finally decided that it was forest where the building is, the arbitrary building, so no forest map is needed, because this particular arbitrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1351	The amendment has been withdrawn, Mr Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1352	I shall finish, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1353	But he's withdrawn. Why are you talking about the substance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1354	Don't put that on, because we have a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1355	I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1356	Mr President, I should also like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1357	After all, this building with a final decision of Greek justice is arbitrary, so no forest map has to be ratified, asking us for a government progressively to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1358	Please! You will tell this to the committee on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1359	Mr President, please, because 2013...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1360	Mr. Maniotis is wrong, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1361	Mr. Maniotis, on Wednesday in committee you can go talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1362	On this issue, if it goes on, I want the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1363	In 2013, Mr President, this party legislated on the creation of an arbitrary demolition service.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1364	Mr. Maniatou, please hang up!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1365	SYRIZA then denounced the government that it closed its eyes to the arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1366	Well, that's what you're going to say to the committee on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1367	We refuse to accept any debate on the amendment either way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1368	Mr. Maniatis, I'm very sorry because you didn't realize that by way of derogation I gave you the floor. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1369	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1370	Mr. Alexiadis, listen. Once you do not withdraw the amendment, you have responded, we are done. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Retirement regulations, incorporation into Greek Law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013, ‘For the adaptation of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’ is closed. In the context of the changes to the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, I think that we should not go in ten times in one day to repeat the title of the bill. In order to vote on the draft in principle and on Articles 21, 31, 39, 42, 43, 44 and 51 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the New Republic whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1371	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy in order to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Constantine Screkas. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Brutsis. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Pakisotakis. Here you go. Mr. Apostle Vessiropoulos. Here you go. Mr. Emmanuel Consolas. Here you go. Mr. Christos Kelles. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. Here you go. Mrs. Georgia Martinou. Here. Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides. Here you go. Mr. Stergios Giannakis. Here you go. Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas. Here you go. Mr. Christos Bukouros. Here you go. Mrs. Sofia Vulture. Here. I do not need to read the following because the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure has been supplemented by the request for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the bill on Articles 51 and 53 has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1372	I shall now read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis. Here you go. Mrs. Salvation Vlacho. Here. Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Evangelos Karakostas. Here you go. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Michos. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. The rest of you don't need to be. The number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure has been supplemented by the request for the roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. Also, for the vote on the bill on Articles 31, 35, 42 and 51, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Alliance, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1373	I shall finally read out the list of signatories and the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Democratic Alliance to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Ioannis Maniotis. Here you go. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu. Here you go. Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos. Here you go. Mrs Christophilopoulou. Here. Mr. Athanasios Theocharopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Here you go. Mr. George Arvanitides. Here you go. Mr. Michael Jellonis. Here you go. Mrs. Harula Kefalidou. Here. Mr. Theodore Papatheodorou. Here you go. Mr. Odysseus Constantinople. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Scandalidis. Here you go. Mr Leonidas Gregorakos. Here you go. Mr. Dimitris Kremastinos. Here you go. Mr. Evangelos Venizelos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for all three motions for roll-call votes by the three parties, Democratic Consortium, the People's Association - Golden Dawn and New Democracy. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1374	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Do you accept the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1375	The House agrees unanimously. A roll-call vote will take place at the outset and on Articles 21, 31, 35, 39, 42, 43, 44, 51 and 53 of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Retired arrangements, incorporation into Greek law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013, ‘For the adaptation of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions. Receiving the principle of the draft law and Articles 21, 31, 35, 39, 42, 43, 44, 51 and 53 say ‘NEI’. Not accepting the principle of the draft law and Articles 21, 31, 35, 39, 42, 43, 44, 51 and 53 refer to ‘NO’. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Panagiota Dritsel is called on the list by SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax numbers - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure - have come to the Bureau, stating their vote on the principle and on Articles 21, 31, 35, 39, 42, 43, 44, 51 and 53 of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1376	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, sent to the Bureau by Mr Nikolao Kotzias, Simeon Kedicoglou, Ioannis Amanatidis, Theodore Dritsa, pursuant to Rule 70 A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1377	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues from Nikos Kerameos, Evangelos - Vasiliou Meimarakis, George Vlachos, Mr Fotinis Arabatzis and Mr Adonidos - Spyridon Georgiadis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present, they would vote 'OR'. These letters are intended to vote, to be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, but are not counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1378	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] In order to win time, while colleagues will count, we will proceed to vote on articles that were not included in the roll-call vote. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1380	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1381	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1382	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1383	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1384	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1385	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1386	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1387	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1388	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1389	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1390	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1391	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1392	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1393	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1394	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1395	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1396	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1397	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1398	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1399	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1400	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1401	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1402	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1403	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1404	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1405	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1406	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1407	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1408	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1409	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1410	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1411	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1412	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1413	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1414	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1415	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1416	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1417	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1418	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1419	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1420	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1422	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1423	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1424	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1425	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1426	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1427	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1428	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1429	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1430	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1431	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1433	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1434	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1435	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1436	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1437	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1438	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1439	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1440	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1441	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1442	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1443	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1444	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1445	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1446	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1447	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1448	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1449	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1450	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1451	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1452	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1453	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1454	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1455	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1456	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1457	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1459	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1460	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1461	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1462	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1463	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1464	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1465	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1466	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1467	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1468	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1470	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1471	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1472	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1473	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1474	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1475	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1476	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1477	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1478	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1479	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1481	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1483	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1485	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1486	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1487	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1488	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1489	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1490	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1491	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1492	Article 38 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1493	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1495	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1496	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1497	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1498	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as it has been unanimously. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1499	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1500	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1501	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1502	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1503	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1504	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1505	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1506	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1507	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1508	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1510	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1512	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1515	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1517	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1519	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1520	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1522	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1524	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1525	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1527	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1528	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1529	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1530	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1532	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1533	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1534	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1536	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1537	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1538	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1539	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1540	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1541	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1542	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1543	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1544	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1545	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1546	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1547	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1548	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1549	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1550	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1551	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 37 and a special number 23?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1552	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1553	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1558	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 37 and a special 23 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 38 and a special 24, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1559	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1560	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1561	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1562	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1563	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1564	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1565	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 38 and a special 24 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 39 and a special number 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1566	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1567	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1568	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1570	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1571	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1572	The amendment, under a general number 39 and a special 25, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 42 and a special number 28?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1573	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1577	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1578	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 42 and a special 28 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 43 and a special number of 29?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1580	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1582	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1583	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1584	Therefore, Amendment No 43 and a special 29 were accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 44 and a specialist of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1585	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1586	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1590	The amendment, by a general number 44 and a special 30, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 45 and a special number 31?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1592	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1594	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1595	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1596	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1597	Therefore, Amendment No 45, and Amendment No 31, was accepted by a majority, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 29 and a special 15?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1598	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1600	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 29 and a special 15 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 41 and a special number 27?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1601	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1602	The amendment, by a general number 41 and a special 27, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 21 and a special 7?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1605	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1607	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1608	The amendment, by a general number 21 and a special 7, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 18 and a special number 4?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1611	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1612	The amendment, by a general number 18 and a special 4, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 19 and a special number 5?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1614	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1616	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1617	Therefore, Amendment No 19, and Amendment No 5, was accepted by a majority, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment, with a general number of 28, and a special number of 14?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1618	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 28 and a special 14 was accepted unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 46 and a special number 32?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1622	Therefore, Amendment No 46 and a special 32 were accepted by a majority and is part of Article 52. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 48 and a special number 34?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1623	The amendment, by a general number 48 and a special 34, has therefore been accepted unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment by a general number 17 and a special number 3?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1628	Therefore, Amendment No 17, and Amendment No 3, was accepted by a majority, and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1629	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the result of a roll-call vote at first reading. A total of 280 Members voted. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAI', 153 Members voted. Against the background of the 'OH' principle, 118 Members voted. They voted for 9 MPs. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Retirement regulations, incorporation into Greek law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on Energy Performance, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013 ‘Adjusting Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on Energy Efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. At this point we will suspend and wait for the result of the roll-call vote on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1630	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the result of a roll-call vote on Articles 21, 31, 35, 39, 42, 43, 44, 51 and 53. [[Get the bill on pl. 973a]] A total of 280 Members voted. In favour of Rule 21, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 21, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. Article 21 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 31, i.e. 'NAH', 162 Members voted. Under Rule 31, i.e. 'NO', 107 Members voted. They voted for 11 Members. Article 31 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 35, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 161 Members. Against Rule 35, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 102 Members. They voted for 17 MPs. Article 35 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 39, i.e. 'NAH', 198 Members voted. Pursuant to Rule 39, i.e. 'Notice', 65 Members voted. They voted for 17 MPs. Article 39 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 42, i.e. 'NA', 153 Members voted. Under Rule 42, i.e. the 'OHS', 115 Members voted. 12 MPs voted. Article 42 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 43, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 165 Members. Pursuant to Rule 43, i.e. 'NO', 125 Members voted. Article 43 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 44, i.e. 'NA', 178 Members voted. Against Rule 44, i.e. 'Notice', 90 Members voted. 12 MPs voted. Article 44 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 51, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 51, i.e. 'Notice', 127 Members voted. Article 51 was therefore accepted by a majority. In favour of Rule 53, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 255 Members. Against Rule 53, i.e. 'Notice', 25 Members voted. Article 53 was therefore accepted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1631	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1632	The latent article was unanimously accepted. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Retirement arrangements, incorporating Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on Energy Efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013 ‘Adjusting Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on Energy Efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’, was accepted in principle and on articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1633	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1635	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1637	Accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1639	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1640	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Retirement arrangements, incorporation into Greek law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on Energy Performance, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013 ‘Adjusting Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on Energy Efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1641	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1642	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-05-S1-commons.u1643	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed for today, Friday, November 6, 2015, at 10 a.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
