ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. We enter the SPECIFIC HORIZATION OF THE BULLETIN PLACE Discussion on the Government's Schedule Declarations. In order to win time, I do not repeat what Mr Voutsis said yesterday and unanimously approved by Parliament. I just want to remind you that the other colleagues have room for the eighth speaker to be on the list now on the Programmes, on the basis of the names given by the parties and not as in other cases of meetings where they were entitled up to the first two. I would remind you that there are six minutes for each of my colleagues, because some of them play the role of the party rapporteurs, we will show a minute's tolerance, but from there and beyond to speak as many Members as possible, I would like to ask you to keep everyone's time and not to be embarrassed. On behalf of SYRIZA, on the basis of the list I have before me, it is Mr. Famelos, from New Democracy, from the Golden Dawn Mr. Lagos, from the Democratic Asylum PASOK - Democratic Left Mr.Lovertos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from Potami Mr. Lykoudis, from the Annellos Kammenos Dimitrios and from the Association of Centres Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u3	No, the procedure has been unanimously approved since yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u4	No, you said something differentiated, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u5	No modifications. I just said that the Members of Parliament were registered and usually between the first and the first, and now it is up to the eight. Please don't waste time. The process cannot change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u6	The time for the MPs you said it was six minutes yesterday, Mr Voutsis said eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u7	No, it's been said six minutes. It's written in the Minutes. Six minutes. Mr. Femelle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u8	Shall we start putting the cards?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u9	Once Mr. Famelos starts talking, he opens the electronics and you can put your card on. Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we have an effective and productive parliamentary term. I hope that the Greek people's decision to give SYRIZA the strong command for government and with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, will prove to be a four-year choice that will improve Greece's position on the global political map, as well as the quality of life of Greeks and, above all, the future of Greeks and our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek citizens have clearly chosen to continue with the progressive changes in our country, with points to combat corruption and interlocutory and strengthen Greece in Europe, not in Europe of austerity, but in Europe of democracy, law, civil society and human rights. Two weeks after the parliamentary elections, we proceed directly with the government's Programmatic Declarations, proving that we are thus satisfied with the country's need for effective governance without any political instability, thus disproved the Cassandras, which at the end of August were at risk of the country's future and were trying to prevent the free will of Greek citizens, as we discredited the Cassandras who were threatening that the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks would lead the country outside the euro, lead the country to the spiral of bankruptcy and constitute a left-wing parentheses. In practice, the Greek people have shown that they do not need bad counsellors of the past, that it commands us to continue the tough and honest struggle to keep Greece up and, at the same time, close the door to the bankrupt political past and leads to radical changes of the political map, but also to all parties of the old political system. It gives us the mandate to end with corruption, with the complexity, but also with damage, which is more than obvious with the large number of scandals that have been brought to the public prosecutor, with the sea-lovings of the Agricultural Bank, the problem of the Post Treasury, armaments programmes, the issues of smuggling, the issues of banks, and even problems in the field of sport, but also in the area of tobacco and spirits. But the strong mandate for a fair state that respects the citizen is not just about the central political scene. It also requires a change of attitude, a life-saving attitude that all of us parliamentarians need to relay and fuel society, a life-saving attitude that prevents the small - complexion that the old political system has committed to everyday life in order to keep the citizen a barber of their politicians and parties. We want this client state to end once and for all in this parliamentary term. Because justice and dignity will return to Greece, because it has been decided by the Greek citizens. The return of justice and democracy, however, not only in Greece but also in Europe is already the work of SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras, and perhaps it is the central political challenge, the central political essence of the major changes that are taking place in the world. When neoliberalism abolishes the rights of states through TTIP contracts, Greece succeeds at the level of the UN, but also at the level of the European institutions to reintroduce and safeguard democracy by putting the European Parliament as a key interlocutor and critic of the changes and the salvation of our country, and by succeeding in introducing the debt issue as a central political issue worldwide, which no political principle in Greece has ever been able to do. And here we understand the difference between having a government that cares about its country and its people or having a government going to Europe and signing what its German bosses give it. We understand what it means to have a government elected by the Greeks and apologies to the Greeks or to have a government appointed by the Cannes or any other summit. We also understand the great geopolitical importance. We understand what it means to have an independent policy in the country for the benefit of the citizens. But the negotiation that we gave honestly and forcefully with the strong citizens' mandate in January never stops. We are never reassured and continue our efforts to change our country's political role. Negotiation for the benefit of the social forces continues, and today on the agenda, as the Prime Minister made yesterday, the issues of red loans and overhead households, protection of the first home, the regulation of the labour market, the publicity of electricity, as well as the Fund for the Evaluation of Public Property are being raised. All these changes will be kept, maintained and promoted, only if citizens remain active through an indisputable relationship with politics, without intermediate, outdated and party leaders. From now on, we are committed that politics will take place in front of the citizen. It will not be done in the virtual reality of large words with small meanings and nice costumes. It will not take place in the logic of a 'fuss' development, but of fairness, with a redistribution for the benefit of the weak social strata. It will be fair with a reduction in social inequalities, because that is the true meaning of the Left, the real meaning of democracy. Many were won in the July and August negotiations, but also in the previous six months, which would not be won if we accepted 'an agreement and whatever it is' or if we supported the text of 'yes' supported by the other opposition parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we must choose. Are we going to be with the honest, patriotic, fighting attitude of the government, or are we going to be with Weber of the People's Party of Europe, who wants the devaluation and degradation of our country? Are we going to be together with the Cassandra who is spreading lies about taxation, insurance, or are we with the government, which reduces the contribution of solidarity to the low strata, imposes taxation on the channels and brings the House in the next period of authorisation? The lies are over, because the citizens have chosen that the truth is the only power we have at our disposal to move forward, to real growth, with domestic added value, with the strengthening of innovation and new scientists, with the strengthening of industry and primary production. We say 'no' to a Greece of services, but 'yes' to a Greece of the real product, which gives self-sufficiency, adequacy and power due to an exchange-rate balance in the negotiation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] All this can be done within Parliament in a compositional manner. We do not underestimate the possibility that this parliamentary term may give, but we call on the citizens to shape the conditions that, if you wish, will force all the political forces towards the major democratic changes and reforms that the place needs so that they do not give the future to anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up. I've given you a minute and a half more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u12	Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. The reform of public administration, the tax system and justice are development tools. We are sending out the message that hope remains alive, with deserved democracy, democracy and progress for our country, for the future, with the citizens. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u13	By the time I summon Mrs Kefaliannis, I would like to inform you that the parties, while respecting the Rules of Procedure, have appointed for today's sitting as Parliamentary Representatives Christos Manta from SYRIZA, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis from New Democracy, Mr. Christos Papachristopoulos from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Athanasios Theoharopoulos from the Democratic Integration, Mr. Athanasios Pafilis from the KKE, Mr. Mrs Olga Kefalayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of an extremely critical parliamentary term. The battles we have to fight are many, but most importantly, they are difficult. They define the present of the Greeks and the future of the country. The battles will be given within a general framework of depreciation of the political system and a climate of lack of confidence on the part of the citizens. The abstention recorded in the elections of 20 September should concern us all. The shrinking of the electorate, the anti-systemic choices and the anti-parliamentary culture that forms a risk to the foundations of the society that we should not underestimate. It needs to be addressed, and it needs to be addressed immediately. All the parties to the democratic arch, but also the new Bureau of Parliament to discuss a moderate initiative to defend democracy, to shield parliamentaryism. There is a need - I think so - and the will. Both the Prime Minister's reports on this issue yesterday and his reference to the Constitutional Review will have to go through the theory in practice, but without surprises and institutional games, with open paper and consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, our resignation to this difficult situation is in no way a case - as we have proved in practice in the past few months - to leave Greece unprotected. We will not allow the present and the future of Greeks and Greeks to be assumed. Within eight months we have experienced a series of inconsistent operations at the level of negotiation and governance, which have cost the place very much. The lack of a plan and the total - unfortunately - government incapacity has led to the third and most ruthless memorandum, which bears responsibility and signature of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. They risked the fundamental, national, historical choice of our European path. We have, however, prevented the danger, acted as a nationally responsible force, as the original expression of the European orientation. We'll do the same now. We will be at the forefront of a structural, tough, but always fair counter-population, without populism and unworthy opposition rhetoric, with knowledge and determination. One thing to be certain, gentlemen of the government: the lies are over. You are not going to have one day's grace period. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past eight months, the economy has been back in recession and the public economy in primary deficits, banks have closed down, capital controls have been imposed with incalculable impact on the Greek economy, unemployment has increased, structural changes and privatizations have not progressed, the private sector of the economy has plunged, investments have blocked, taxes have increased, ENPI remains, pensions have fallen. And, unfortunately, this is the country's economic situation, that is your past, which unfortunately is bored by the present. Reading the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations in January 2015 are the definition of absolute denial in all fields, everywhere (economy, foreign policy, public administration, education). Unfortunately the Prime Minister did not dare to reflect reality yesterday. He followed the path of demagoguery, general references, the cultivation of enemies in and out of the country, the way to the end of the reversal of reality. It is clear that neither is there a plan now, nor is there anything but ideologies and obsessive references to outdated policies. Nothing seems to change. And I wonder, did the elections work like a costly reshape, an internal party cleansing? Same policy, same big words, same false expectations. A few days ago Mr. Tsipras in the United States spoke to foreign investors without any message at all. It further increased the doubts, weakening the country's solvency and credibility. He said that Greece would go out on the markets if a debt restructuring had taken place, not a haircut anymore. Yesterday we learned that this solution was no other than that our Government firmly and effectively promoted, as was shown by the recent change in the principles of sustainability by the IMF. It took seven months to destroy the economy to understand that the haircut is not a good solution for the specificity of the Greek debt and only methods that ensure a progressive return to viability within the European framework, ensure the return to markets. And that's all that can mean the end of the memorial. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] After all, these principles were followed by our Government and led Greece to the markets in spring 2014, an achievement destroyed by the political instability created by SYRIZA by playing the game of those who today call "the extreme conservative circles of Europe". What did you do? You have thrown away the efforts of a five-year-old, the sacrifices of the Greek people in the basket of unusable. After three years of stabilising orbit, the debt fell in 2014. It took six months of foreign governance to increase by 40 billion in a three-year horizon. The growth-driven economy in 2014 was derailed and today you come to announce to us two more years of recession and unemployment. And that's because you've been privatized by falconry, to raid power. You have completely ignored the consequences of your policy and the results of this indifference today by Greece. Even now you are not telling the truth that only through a structured progressive return strategy to viability can we get out on the markets again, that the measures for the first assessment must be implemented, and then there must be substantial discussion on the debt, access to the cheapest liquidity of the ECB and the bond market programme, so that the recapitalisation can be completed, prevented from cutting the deposits, which you caused as a risk, to stop the capital controls, which you have put in place, to normally run the banks that you have closed down. This is the series that ensures investment and European resources in the country. This is the safe way to start restarting the real economy. Only you again appear foolish, disfellowshipped and unwitting to go ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, the way in which SYRIZA has been dealing over the past few years as an ideological opposition that has moved on its path 'not to everything', and as a devastating government, we are not allowed to have any confidence or to have deceit. None of what they have done in the past, far and close, can convince us that they will effectively govern the place. For these reasons we are voting against the government's Programmatic Declarations, we are saying that we are present in the first series of battles that are coming and I am sure that our prolongation will once again express the tested society, I am sure and above all hopeful that+ we will vindicate it. After all, it was our unique priority, it is and will be Greece, the interests of the country, the interests of our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. The third speaker, Mr Ioannis, has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much. Yesterday, from this Chamber, we heard about two hours from the Prime Minister of the country speaking and telling us nothing at all. We have heard the Prime Minister of the country promise a number of things that will happen in the future from Parliament, from his government, but of course, you will allow me personally and my party, not to have any confidence in what the Prime Minister of the country says, because seven - eight months ago they were other things that he said and others he did. And, of course, before he became a government and took over the government of the country, he was telling us completely different things, telling us about shaping the memorials, telling us that by a law he would wipe all this out. And finally, for that reason, and for the lies he said so many months later, for seven to eight months, he lost about 1/3 of his parliamentary power. And that was the reason why he led the country to elections, once again charging the Greek state. The only reason that Greece was led to elections about twenty days ago is that the Prime Minister wanted to clarify his party landscape, he wanted to take out any internal opposition he had in order to be able to continue this work that he is unfortunately doing at the expense of our country. We heard him speak yesterday and tell us different things, such as bringing in a new institutional framework for governance and related matters. But, on the basis of this institutional framework, which it implemented six to seven months ago, its government is the draft Katrugalos law, which brought back all the juror civil servants, all the doctors who had taken a briefcase, all those who had been prosecuted for some illegal acts. So on this, will the new institutional framework work? Let's see them along the way, because we're sure what's going to follow. We also heard him at some point talking about the anti-population that now exists in Greece from the old economic establishment, that he is being chased by him, that is, himself and his Government, the old financial establishment. We would like to ask him: does Yanna Angelopoulos belong to the old financial establishment or to the new financial establishment that he is going to implement and with which he fully cooperates? We also heard about the different development goals that exist between his Government and the Opposition. But this is at least ridiculous to say, because it was his Government with all the opposition parties who voted for the measures brought to the Greek Parliament, and indeed the New Democracy Party that was a Dedicated Opposition - and it is a Civic Opposition - told him directly through this Chamber that you are not afraid, we are not going to throw you down, bring the measures that are there and we will vote on them, just as it was. So there is no different way of thinking, there is exactly the same plan they apply. We also heard him talk to us about social cohesion, which will be applied in our country. Just tell him that social cohesion cannot exist in a country of 10 million inhabitants, when there are about three million illegal immigrants and these amounts are constantly increasing. So this social cohesion cannot exist, and let it go to the Aegean islands, which accept every day thousands of illegal immigrants, but also in the center of Athens, where we have a huge problem. Social cohesion will occur when Greece operates as a single state with the specific structures it has had for so many years. It is also courageous when we hear the Prime Minister of the country accusing some of their support - he says - of the referendum he held - 'yes'. Of course it is a disgrace to some who supported 'yes'. But the worst shame is in his government that took this referendum and turned the "no" of the Greek people into "yes". In other words, after five days of the referendum, the Prime Minister himself turned it into a referendum and now has the courage to tell us that others swept away the 'yes' and also has the courage to say that he will ask and will then apply the government itself to continue and to have referendums! But there's no need for referendums. If the referendum is held and receives a concrete answer, and he turns it as he would like, what is the reason for the referendum? So we're supposed to be democrats? Of course these are funny things, and these can only be denounced by the Golden Dawn because this one has been saying the same things for so many years, unlike all the others who are supposed to be bailing in these seats of this House, but when any bill that is the mandate of the European Union and of the loan-to-curlers comes, the government itself and those who are supposed to be opposition are entirely in agreement with everything. He told us about the smuggling of public money that has been done over the last forty years in Greece. We agree, we have said this since last time, we keep saying: Yes, money has disappeared from the public fund, money has disappeared and property has been made, we know that. But in the seven months that governed the country, we did not see him actually willing to come into dissent with them and charge responsibility and see who has stolen the Greek citizen's money and given responsibility for all this, and not just beautiful and beautiful words, which in essence have no objection. He also said that all tax evasion lists created in recent years should be checked. He mentioned, for example, the Lagard list and various others. But the Golden Dawn has lifted the flag on it, has asked for all the lists to be checked, and we have received answers from government ministers that they can't be controlled, it's not in the government's capacity. It is also the current President of the Greek Parliament who, in a public debate with the representatives of the OTAs, had said that yes, there are many irregularities, there are a lot of money that has disappeared, but it is not good to discuss them now, because the only winner of that will be the Golden Dawn. That is what the President of the Greek Parliament himself said. So we have brought you in such a difficult position, because you know that the people we are talking about and we mean what we are about to say are Golden Dawn and you don't dare do it, because you know that those who are very clear in this House are us and that if they are looking for the last few years, it will prove that only we are clean, and that brings you to a very difficult position. I'd like to say more, but I don't have time for it. I would just like to conclude by saying that either capitalists, liberals or communists, you have the same bosses, you are running in the White House, you rebels, communists, radicals, to get the approval by the President of America that you will apply these shameful measures to the Greek people, you who yelled at, you who are supposedly left to flags behind your offices. Well, the Golden Dawn shouts once again and he makes it, that he will be here, he will support the Greek people's own people at any cost and at any price.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u17	I would ask Mr Andreas Loverdos on behalf of the Democratic Alliance to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I want to remember a little that the fall of the Samara government - Venizelos from the SYRIZA and ANEL alliance, beyond the practical political event - fell a government, there was elections, another came out - it also had a very great, substantial political consequence. Rejected, supposedly, by you winners to return to prosperity by step-by-step method, step-by-step step-by-step step. When we said that the recession disappears and we go to a small growth, you said: 'Great unemployment, what are these?' When we said that unemployment is falling from 28% to 25%, that it will go to 23% and the target is in 2017 to 20% and beyond, you said: "It is very high unemployment, we will eliminate it. " You suggested invasion solutions to the Greek people and preferred them. Turns out you were lying. It turned out that all of these supposedly funding from countries far away, the so-called policies for the 12,000 tax-free, the so-called policies for the thirteenth pension were false. And from what we heard the Prime Minister yesterday, from the middle of his speech, we understood very clearly that your problem was the occupation of power. The game of power was at the expense of the Greek people! From the middle and then yesterday, the Prime Minister's word looked like a conventional word for a country that is fighting it. The 35 billion, ladies and gentlemen, of the previous programme, which Varoufakis, Tsipras and Kammenos rejected, did not take, which was without a memorandum, due to a missing program...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u19	So we had to sell the public property?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u20	...the 25 billion for the banks plus as much as we measure the deinvestment and the recession, which, let's say, is 10 billion. This suma is 70 billion, so it seems that you are now following the policy of the step ladder, step by step. Finally, it was a power game for awkward operators of the very problematic and difficult Greek administration, as it appeared, for example, by the deputy in schools that will be at the end of October, colleagues! You'd have hanged us if we had such a weakness. As seen from 23% in private education. We'd have changed our country! As shown by immigration. You would have executed us! As the issues, and above all the capital controls, closed banks, the problems of the recession that has come back, and which the Minister for Development will pre-election 2% of 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who are in the process of winning the elections, that, I would like to stress most strongly that the country until 14 August, when the third memorandum was signed, was working as it was, with the problems we all know and the ball was inside the court. We were in the first half. Since 14 August, however, the third memorandum was passed here, we have a political half-time. Two-three-day holidays then, the dissolution of the House in elections, post-election period. Speech, air cut off, words! The game is relaunching, second half as of Thursday, when the first draft laws, implementing laws and will be unfolded in practice, in administrative practice and in relation to the citizen's relationship with the state, the measures that your infamous policy has imposed on the Greek people by this inappropriate third memorandum. Because I see in the media a lot of joy on the part of the election winners - in the House yesterday I did not see it, I saw frozen applause, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to the Prime Minister - I would like to say that it reminds me of a phrase by Eleftherios Venizelos: we are failing, he said, enthusiastically. You're on this line. I would like to remind you of a phrase by Aristotle conveyed to modern Greeks that the one who promised many and pushed the people into mistakes may have won for some time his favor, but when the people find out what the problem this policy has created, they will be severely punished. There we are right now. Instead of having a large government based on two hundred twenty, two hundred thirty Members, which the country needed to inspire everywhere and outside the country, a climate of political stability, we have the people to do what Mr Tsipras pre-electionally asked: to have a large majority. He's got it. Be his partner in the House. It is. Not to be the inner-party opposition in the House. It's not. The people, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, have given you everything, but they will ask you for full responsibility. And you don't have time, as many of you say, when they talk at least, out of publicity. When the Prime Minister had spoken to the House in February, on the Programming Declarations, the next day he was called a Prime Minister of the recession. He didn't say a word about development. Yesterday Mrs Gennamata described him as a chatter in the easy and bouvo - salt in the hard. That's right. I mean, one more thing, listening to yesterday. Beginner of Greek bureaucracy spoke from the Step. What did he say about growth? He said something yesterday -- he said nothing in February of '15 -- that he would set up a body to take over development. That's not what they said in the '70s or '80s. Experience from the institutions has proved to be a bad one. The logic, the method, the policy, where I have a problem with the establishment of a state, has proved to be a mistake. And in 2015, after all, is this the country's development and investment perspective? Black days for the economy. To conclude, to conclude, SYRIZA has made three major promises in the run-up to the elections, all seven months and repeated them yesterday: the nonexistent equivalents - modern demagogy: where I have nothing to say, instead of lying, as I said, before the January elections, I now give equivalent inexistently, it appeared yesterday and 23% in education - rapid development and increased revenue from the fight against corruption. Good luck on all three. Good luck on all three! We'll be here to applaud you. But if you think that in the course of the road there are political pillows, that we are willing, you are wrong. Whatever you sowed, this one will reap on your own, absolutely on your own! I wish you a success, and as a member of the PASOK Group - DIMAR, we are voting against the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u21	Just quiet down, please. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. For the JRC, the main issue....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u23	Calm down on the north benches.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u24	Kids are playing, Mr. President. So, for the JRC, the main question that we need to answer is as follows: who is responsible for the anti-popular attack, which is constantly widening, what is the nature of this attack? For the Communist Party of Greece, at the centre, at the core of this anti-popular attack, in its classic character, there is nothing but protection, shielding the competitiveness and profitability of competitive groups. This effort, this need requires - it has preconditions - a very cheap workforce, a workforce, without structured labour and insurance rights. It is conditional on the creation of new sectors in order to be able to extend its activity to overcompensated capital. That is why they have the logic of market liberalisation, the famous OECD toolbox, privatisation. Finally, this logic, namely support for competitiveness and profitability, prerequisites for the support, direct intervention of the urban state in business groups, monopolies through the scandalous tax exemptions, which, through the huge incentives, investment, through the various packages of state and European funding of monopolistic groups. Of course, this class attack in conditions of capitalist crisis is becoming even more necessary, even more urgent. That is why we are monitoring the acute intensity and escalation of anti-grass class measures at this time. With this it is clear that we are dealing with a lasting attack on the working class, the self-employed, the wide popular strata, an unfinished attack, as lasting is the need for profitability and competitiveness of the monopolistic groups. That is why, apart from budgetary measures, so-called capitalist reforms are being promoted, that is to say, the formation of the appropriate structures to regenerate a very cheap labour force, by kicking off labour-insurance and trade union rights. That is why measures to liberalise the market are being promoted, the OECD toolbox for self-employed and professionals. And these guidelines are the same throughout the European Union, regardless of whether it is in conditions of capitalist crisis or capitalist development, whether it has a memorandum or not, more or less a state debt. Of course, there are objections both within the core of the European Union and between the Member States of the European Union and between the United States and the European Union. But these objections in fact now have the protection of the particular interests of their urban classes. They have at their core the need to promote their own interests in the sharing of markets. Despite all the competition and contradictions they all have a common dimension, all the urban classes and all their civil servants, regardless of whether they are conservative, if they are liberal, whether they are progressive social democrat or left. What is this common aim, the common task? The attack on the people's rights and the need to satisfy the people's needs to enter the torva, must be brought into the pool of competitiveness and profitability of monopolistic groups. We do not disagree on that. And this dispute between the multinationals is also expressed in Greece. The multinationals want their part from the distribution of the pie to the Greek market and the Greek economy, and the government is trying to achieve it by saying one more, but much more - 'thank you' to the United States. So, then, the memorials are the outlines of anti-grassroots measures and class policy, an anti-grassroots policy which will escalate next time in the name of the restructuring of state debt. No hope should have the popular layers of the restructuring of the state debt. That is why it is fraudulent and falsified the nature of the parallel programme and the history of the equivalent measures. After all, the preliminary draft of the new state budget, which was submitted yesterday, shows the reason for the truth about who will pay the new tax measures, who will suffer - the pensioners and the insurance funds - the new cuts in public expenditure. So, with the parallel programme, the government - and this proves its useful character - seeks to break down the unity of the people for which they will pay first, who will eat the Minotaur first, leaving the great responsible, the interests of the large capital of monopolistic groups, which it supports. This is therefore a management at the expense of the people of the phenomena of extreme poverty. Who will be asked to pay for the protection of the extreme poor? The ones who are less poor. The capitalists, however, will continue to enjoy their scandalous privileges. So, for this very reason, the government is adapting to the name of protection from the humanitarian crisis and social structures, through their shrinkage, through their underfunding, by creating a network of so-called solidarity from the actions of NGOs and voluntary organisations, to provide some outbursts to those who cannot survive today. In this respect, alternative proposals that do not question the sovereignty of monopolistic groups and Greece's participation in the European Union, such as the exit from the Eurozone and the national currency, are dead-end and dangerous for the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. After all, the class character, the exploitation of capitalist development does not change, regardless of what the government is: if it is social democratic, whether it is left-wing or conservative. It doesn't change from the type of coin. And from this point of view it is based on and requires the concentration of wealth in less and less hands and poverty and impoverishment for the rest of the populace. Is there another way to the Communist Party of Greece? Of course there's another way. It is the path of socialisation of the means of production, the exploitation of the overall productive potential for a growth that at its heart will not have the capitalist profit, but the satisfaction of the people's needs with a central economic planning, the release from the European Union and the other imperialist organisations, with a unilateral cancellation of the state debt. What can we do? The answer must be: No tolerance to the logic of social consensus, its logic of "different and ruled". The aim of the People's Movement must be the real rival, that is, the monopolistic groups and not its servants: the governments and the troika.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u25	Please, get it over with. We have gone far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u26	The focus must be on satisfying people's needs. Such a strong, massive, popular movement with social cohesion and unity can be the headline of the opponent awe and for restoring the losses, but above all for radical ruptures and overthrows. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Lykoudi - will Mr Kammenos Dimitrios and Mr Georgiadis Marios be followed by the following: First of all, for colleagues who came to the Chamber after the start, I would remind you that even Mr Georgiadis Marios may be present if they so wish. Mr Panos Kammenos, Minister of National Defence and Mr Konstantinos Fotakis, Deputy Minister of Education, have then been asked to speak. They're leaving for Brussels. Then, with your consent, I will give them the floor. I also have a list of the members of the Ministerial Council who want to speak today. It's 20. I would therefore like to inform the members of the government that one will speak after four Members - speakers. There is no way - because I see about the same hours that the ministers are asking to speak - to speak twenty Ministers and then the MPs. Four Members will speak out of the eight who are each group and one minister. I'm telling you to see your schedule and arrange your work. I imagine I have the unanimous support of my colleagues on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u28	And five Members, if you wish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u29	Very good. Mr. Lykoudi, please come to the Step to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the Programmatic Declarations of the SYRIZA and ANEL II, one is tempted to ignore them completely, beyond, of course, those relating to the implementation of the obligations of the third memorandum, Mr Tsipras' Memorandum. Why, ladies and gentlemen, what credibility can all these genealogies have when it has, in our opinion, collapsed fully in the credibility of this government since the seven-month rule, this rule of insurmountable partyism, total propaganda, nepotism, the status quo, the non-existence of any development policy, the protection of syndicate interests? In what area did it succeed in giving faith today or even tolerance to its current declarations? It is not the same government, it is not the same Prime Minister who last February assured us in this Chamber - the oldest colleagues remember them all - that they had a programme supposedly realistic, that they had found the resources to abolish the redundancy, to give the thirteenth pension, to increase the minimum wage, not to increase the age limits of the retired, not to reduce the main and supplementary pensions, not to impose new taxes, to claim rent and compensation, and even to restore - listen! - the democracy which had been allegedly abolished by legislative acts, so that they could exceed any tolerable limit on this issue in their seven-month government? Has the government of SYRIZA spent so much time not remembering its political extremes when it said that the real dilemma in the country was a memorandum or a democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, in the past painful months, only the antimony myth, the huge, the greatest political fraud of post-multipleism, the one that divided the Greeks into memorial and antimonetary, patriots and traitors, has collapsed. She collapsed with her and the genocide of another alternative, supposedly a possible solution, with which apprentices consciously misled citizens. Even now on the psychological substrate of the rulers one sees antimony chimera as a forced rest, a necessary interval before some news, a new fantasy attack. All one can say is that come to your attention, ladies and gentlemen! Land, you and me. All of us! Because the dangers have not gone away. Grexit and the collapse are happening and it is now exclusively as your government's responsibility to prevent it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have appealed to the people to reorder the political forces with their vote so that they can form new political connections, able to bear similar costs, in order to get the country out of its quarrel and decline. Instead, the citizens, outside what we were saying, gave Mr Tsipras - Mr Loverdos said so before - exactly what he asked: rule himself or with the ANELs if he cannot do so alone. They gave him exactly what they asked for and their decision, of course, is respected. That's the decision. But you will rule on your own, and you will raise this burden on your own. The European anti-population forces backed the country's European perspective in the summer, because Mr Tsipras' government had lost the majority in Parliament. Mr. Tsipras did not save the country from the collapse, as he claims, from the disaster in which he led it. The opposition saved her, with her responsible national attitude. This has also been completely distorted and silenced. Because the government is not in a position to engage in an honest political dialogue. It's not even credible for that. With a lot of courage and fascist innocence, they're asking if we know any other way, some other way than the one they're following. We know: the truth instead of lying, self-awareness instead of deception, honesty instead of unaltered party propaganda. We may have made mistakes and made mistakes, but we have the right to look the citizens in the eye, because we have not deceived them. You have no such right, because you are still possessed by the charm of error. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is called upon to take responsibility for its own implementation of the memorandum, which brings its own signature wide. There is a warning difference between Mr. Tsipras' memorandum and the other memos. They came out of the crisis. His was the result of a negotiation of his own, which, as he says, tougher - he became the more burdensome the necessary measures. The country was again sinking into unemployment and the recession, the banking system was dissolved, the capital controls were imposed, the locks were increased in the winter businesses, the citizens were taxed. The government has increased lending and debt, and now it is talking about alleviating it and instead of a mea culpa and humility, it again promises no paradise. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be promoting reforms in the political system and the electoral law, for which the government simply crippled something yesterday. Because the current government's majority is legal, completely legal, but, in fact, it's wide and obsolete. We will insist on the start of procedures for the revision of the Constitution and say more when the time comes. We will propose development measures, we will support the unemployed and the diabetics, the small and medium-sized ones, not the syndicate interests. We will support private domestic and foreign investment, under transparent rules of operation and control, with the primary aim of creating real jobs. We will support with passion the pioneering efforts of creators, workers, research and innovation, open and extroverted society. Ladies and gentlemen, as a country we hold the eighty-sixteenth world first place in competitiveness, behind and behind Rwanda! We will support all the proposals of our programme, but we will obviously also be open to others' proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end. The Prime Minister recently returned from New York, after not - from what we have all read and heard - particularly successful presence and I do not welcome it at all because the Prime Minister's success and failures are reflected throughout the country. Just, ladies and gentlemen of the government, decide to govern the country and represent it abroad with a plan and preparation. The political walks inside and outside the country all the previous seven months should have given you lessons. We won't give a vote of confidence to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u31	We arrive at the 'Selectoral' special speaker - because that is not the term - for today's sitting, Mr. Dimitris Kammenos, whom I call on the Stepma. Mr Marios Georgiadis will be prepared and then Minister Panos Kammenos will be given the floor. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you to the new 'thankful adventure' that we will have in our new parliamentary term. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for honouring me with the position of Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Infrastructure and of course, as you can see, I have not put any plaster on. I could have come with plaster in the tongue, with plaster on both hands and feet or all, but we are here to fight for our homeland, say truths and each one of the different posts, since we have been honored by the Greek people, to offer as much as possible. I will start a little - and you will allow me - with what we have to date. We have here the measures that the government intends to take, amounting to ECU 6.3 billion. -6.8 billion I've told you in previous speeches, and because I don't like lying and because I don't like to read, I'm going to testify to you - because I know you'll be tired if you read it - two hundred seventy pages, the IMF report in 2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Government of PASOK and New Democracy in 2014 agreed with the IMF on measures amounting to 5,766 plus 2,5 billion from social contributions and other revenues, which are in three pages in the report, on page 42. All together are 8.5 billion, for 2015-2016. It's a page from 274. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, the financial needs, which are recognised for 2015-2016 by the previous governments, which delivered to us, are only 12.6 billion for this year and we have to give 56.8 billion loans for 2015 and 2016. I give it back and it's page 56 of this particular report. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These loans are all Memorandum loans of 2010-2014. They're not SYRIZA loans - ANEL. It is part of the loans that we need to serve until August 2018 and part of the 86 billion plaque we received to serve the debt that came to us from previous governments. Here, on page 138 of the same report, the surpluses were 14,550 billion for 2015-2016, which are measures. I add the surpluses to 12 billion meters, so we go close to 30. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. Let's see the measures taken by the PASOK - New Democracy in 2010-2014. So the measures taken by the PASOK - New Democracy government number around 58.6 billion, PASOK 42 billion, New Democracy 16 billion. In 2012, I share it in the middle. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I come to the impact of the measures on GDP, that is, the impact of these measures on GDP, that is, on what happened in this economy received by our own government in January. We had 61.6 billion! The analysis is undeniable. The impact of the measures on GDP is 40 billion in PASOK and 21 billion in New Democracy. We are talking about 61.6 billion, and we are now talking about what happened when we came. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would remind you that this country has received 65 billion euros, 300 billion euros and 25 billion euros of interest-free investment. I will say again the figures: EUR 65 billion for loans and EUR 300 billion for subsidies! Where'd that money go? What development did that money go to? What did we receive in January 2015? Because now everyone comes and tell us and create poetic permits, exceptional, if you like, definitions, such as a SYRIZA-ANEL Memorandum. What SYRIZA 86 billion Memorandum - ANEL? The PASOK Memorandum - New Democracy is 62 billion! I gave the numbers. What memorial? We are talking about measures of 6.3 billion and we will be able to cut, reduce - and say how - when they have agreed to 15.5 billion surpluses for two years and 8.5 billion metres for two years! For two years and not for three! This government will do and should do the following, since it has succeeded - and I give the official table - the PSI - the highly successful one! - to dismantle the Greek banks for 37,733 billion! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we come today after the blackmail, after the total inability of the previous governments to collect either the IMF instalments or tax revenues, indirectly and directly. There is a complete failure to collect tax revenues of 37 billion in 2009-2013. There is an inability of governments to collect direct and indirect taxes of 37 billion and come to us! If they had even collected one tenth of them, three billion, there would have been neither measures for them nor for us. If they had even collected half the money, 18 billion, we'd have an investment party! Why didn't they collect the 37 billion? Were they capable and the incompetent? This is the Commission's report. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We will hear a lot because there is a pre-election period. We Independent Greeks wish to be useful in society. We are bourgeois, to whom private initiative and private investment enjoy, while we are close to the people. And since we come from the market, we know what the Greek people have gone through. Today we have at least one million two thousand official unemployed. But while we give our confidence to the government, the New Democracy will vote against. She doesn't give her trust. So, what does the Opposition say to us today? That he wants us to go back to elections? Does he want us to go bankrupt? Because you obviously do not know and have not been told by the analysts, I am giving you the payments to the IMF until 2030 in euro weeks - week. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where will you find 2.5 billion by the end of the year for the IMF if you do not give a vote of confidence to the government and say that we are falling? So next week we're going to go bankrupt? Are you going to become Lafasan's comrades? Will you take us to the drachma?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u33	We told you this!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u34	I don't know what you were saying! I say that today you do not give a vote of confidence. Once you don't give a vote of confidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u35	Don't waste time answering, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u36	Don't have a dialogue! I have the full analysis - and we should all have it, and that is why I leave it in the Minutes - what we have to give to and to whom until August 2018. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you will all, and when the Greek people hear that this government does not take a vote of confidence, they will have to understand what it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u37	That's what we talked about next time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u38	Because you were telling us, giving us a vote of confidence and fighting together to find the money!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u39	Next time, you should have said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u40	These debts, Mrs. Vulture, are yours! They're not mine, they're not Panos and Tsipras! It's your debts, 54 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And we're going to society and fast. Can there be groups of citizens who do not accept electronic transactions and POS? Is it possible that doctors, engineers, journalists or lawyers - offices - should not accept them? I'm going to the hospital the other day to run tests and they couldn't accept POS. Examination cost 130 euros! So I asked the hospital if they had to give me a change of 150 euros, and they said they didn't. I told them, "What do you have on the fund?" And they answered, "I have no fund." Where is Greece going? And that's what happened to me! There wasn't a little machine to pay and they didn't have to give me a change of 150 euros! So where are we going? The public should put electronic payments everywhere, protect banks, take money to banks, make a healthy recapitalisation, go to debt restructuring, and see what we are going to do with the IMF, which does not find the debt viable. We must resolve the debt issue, both with a period of grace for interest and debt, but also with an extension for twenty or thirty years, such as the agreement on the sustainability of the debt. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And here I would like to say that the 54 billion, the debts of the New Democracy and of the three-year-old PASOK that we cover with the plaque - to understand all - we have restructured them, we have "haired them". It was three years and we pay it in thirty and a half instead of three years with 1% instead of 4.25%. Do you want us to act in net present value how much is 54 billion? Not even 10 billion. We're down 90%. I conclude by saying that all institutions in Greece, chambers of commerce, EBE, the banks together with the government must work together and we must start and unravel the banks' red loans in healthy ways, with intermediaries, with experts in Greece, the heads of Greek scientists, who will be able to bring investment in Greece and bring growth home, but not lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Comrade, please, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u42	Please, beyond the vote of confidence, let us all think about what responsibilities we have when we say 'no'. If anyone finds money for the end of the year, they'll tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Marios Georgiadis has the floor. Mr Georgiadis, because it is your first speech, on behalf of the Bureau I wish you a success.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time I have been at the Step of the House, and I could not start by thanking the Greek people for their support with his vote and our entry into the Greek Parliament. At the same time, I would like to thank the President of the Central Santa Leventis Union and the entire parliamentary group for their support and the vote of confidence in my face to give me the role of the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group. The entry of the Centro Association into the House is not only a personal right to the President of the Centro Association. It is mainly a right to the clear positions and principles of the democratic centre, which for many years have been exiled by our political life. The Centro Association will not exercise a sterile opposition. On the other hand, it will demonstrate that the Centre is a voice of convergence and composition, a voice which aspires to bring common sense back to political sense. In this context, the Centro Association calls on the Government to be brave and to carry out the necessary reforms. We know, of course, that this is very difficult. And it is very difficult because it is difficult for them to believe even themselves in what they have signed and brought and are now being called upon to impose. Either way, we are neither going to watch nor participate in the government's existential searches. The continuation of compulsion through a supposedly parallel program is not at all a good omen. It seems to me that the government has obviously not understood the situation we are currently in. In any case - to say it simply Greek, to gamble and a little - "the ball is on your court". And I am addressing the government benches in the hope that you really have left the old before. In any case, the memorandum that the government is now being called upon to implement, which she herself signed and brought to the Greek Parliament, did not focus on the development or the fight against the pathogenesis that led to the present situation. Of course, to be fair, these pathogens were not only created by the current government, but they are clear from both the past, the New Democracy and the PASOK. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister did not even break the old, as he himself called it, quickly adopt it and safeguard it. I really hope that the new government will change its agenda and not continue the catastrophic course that has taken place over the last seven months. In this direction we inform the Prime Minister of the nine points of our programme, on which we are going to move. We firmly believe that the problem in fact remains the mixture of reforms and not the objectives that have been set themselves. All governments have so far been calling for reforms by Europe to be translated into more taxes, "strangling" the private sector, especially by practising the paths of the public, with growth always remaining a demand. When we talk about growth, we mean dealing with the destructive deinvestment of the country by ensuring first and foremost a sound economic and political environment. What do we mean by that? To return the funds that have been in existence abroad from the Greek banking system since 2009 and from then on with a mild law in which the tax payment of 15% has to be replaced by half of the investment of this money in productive sectors within Greece. To make transparent use of the ESDP programmes for public investment by boosting the productive sectors of the economy. Motivate young people and young scientists to remain in Greece and strengthen research and innovation. To eliminate the bureaucracy that fuels corruption in public and politics and strengthen the entrepreneurship of start-ups in practice. We must tackle tourism in a serious way at last. It is imperative that our country should claim and earn its share of this world-wide developing industry. Finally, we must make use of our country's geographical position in the field of energy and transport. Greece can and must be an energy hub and an international transit centre. To sum up, the Greek problem should not only be addressed in the question of debt but also in its deeper causes. The answer to the Greek problem is the productive reconstruction of a national long-term planning and the attraction of new investments. Because times of refreshment need the government to demonstrate the necessary readiness and maturity. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House, the Centro-Venezia Association will deal with the law and oppose the unfairness. Finally, in order to be perfectly understandable to everyone here in this Chamber, we will not become anyone's helmet. If the Government is looking for substitutes for the Independent Greeks to look at other wings of Parliament. The nine points which we have put to the Prime Minister, without any response to this day, force us to vote against the Tsipras - Kammenos government today because these points are unnecessarily for us and are a minimum contract that we have signed with the healthy and productive forces of our country. The Centro Association is not going to break this signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Georgiades, although a rookie, you were more disciplined than us old people. First, it closes the registration system. As we decided last night, at the end of Mr Georgiadis' speech the system is closed. As I have your consent, I give the floor, because of his trip abroad, to the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Pano Kammenos. You have 15 minutes, Minister. Please don't embarrass me to ring the bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good four years and especially the young colleagues elected by the Greek people to help us keep the tradition of parliamentaryism, strengthen Parliament, democracy, move on to measures of direct democracy, give the Greek people greater opportunities to participate throughout this period. I will agree that we will have to take such institutional measures in this four-year period, as the Prime Minister has said, which we will prove to the Greek people that we are ready to change things, as he has commanded. The Law on Responsibility of Ministers must be repealed. We must set an example to the Greek people for our next steps. The current government took a second vote of confidence by the Greek people. It's a message of national unity, a message that's clear. He supported two parties from different political spaces with a common vision, though. The common vision is Greece. Now it is the turn of each of you, ladies and gentlemen, to show that you have the reflexes and to support with a vote of confidence a government progressive, which will continue the work that began eight months ago. Greece has a strong government, a government of all Greeks, which will restore confidence in the institutions, unite the Greek people. We want the Greek people united and strong, so that we can achieve the goal that is no more than the country's exit from the policy of recession, austerity, unemployment and lead to steady growth. And to come to the area of National Defence, I will say that this section is of great importance, because it is known that the national strength, i.e. the volume and imprints of the country's international standing and action, is the result of many aspects, such as military power, which the country's Armed Forces ensure, social power, economic power, fiscal stability, the exercise of an integrated active and credible defence diplomacy. For us the major issue is the security of the Greek citizen and of the Greek nation. The security of the country is a matter of national, above party aspirations. I am sorry for what has been heard during the election period and for those who have dragged the Chief of Staff to attack personally the Chief of the General Staff of National Defence. And I am very pleased that the voices of logic have prevailed in the political opposition party, such as that of Mr Kefaliannis who has corrected this huge attack against the general, which the Armed Forces have chosen and not the political leadership. From the outset we have made it clear what the first issue is in relation to national defence: it is national security, national security in Thrace, in the Aegean Sea, in the Eastern Mediterranean. We insist on the Eastern Mediterranean, because that is where we have our energy interests, there we have the priority of demarcation of the EEZ and that is where we can guarantee the security of Cypriot Hellenism. We have national issues, the successful treatment of which requires stability, decisively, continuity, mutual understanding and consensus. The growing of a spirit of division, introvert and malnutrition undermines our national objectives and offends the national consensus which we now need more than ever. We are experiencing changes that have an impact on geostrategic and geoeconomic conditions in our days. The cosmogenic changes that have occurred and continue in recent years have created a series of new data that form an unstable security environment that directly affects Greece and Cyprus. The aggression and instability that prevails requires that we have our attention tense, the readiness to the greatest extent. In the face of these new challenges and needs, Greece strengthens its position as a security and stability factor in the modern international environment. With the Deputy Minister, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsa, we have an absolute consciousness of our responsibility in a really difficult period for our country. We are here to cooperate at political level, in compliance with the laws, national defence plans and the independence of the Armed Forces. From the outset we have known that we are respecting the institutions, traditions and morality governing the operation of the Armed Forces, which must be held unaffected, regardless of the persons who exercise it. At this point I would like to make known to all my fellow Members that I will be kept constantly informed and call for the contribution of all the relevant parliamentary committees to the defence of the country. As we have done over the last eight months in Parliament, we will show it in practice with our meetings with the relevant committees, with the information of the political parties, with our responses to the parliamentary scrutiny procedure, so that with your comments and suggestions we can better serve the national interests, the interests of the country's defence and security, as well as transparency and legitimacy. We will do everything in order to maintain the office of the Armed Forces, of course, with what the state can provide from the stallion of the Greek citizen. Our programme for the Armed Forces aims to implement the policy of national defence, as decided by the CSCE, by the Governmental Council for Foreign and Defence, and I am particularly pleased with the Minister's announcement to upgrade the CSCE and the continuing meeting of this institution. So I start from staff, as I started in January 2015, when I first took over the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence. At that time, I stated that the aim is to implement immediately the decision of the Council of State on justice in relation to the reductions in the staff of the Armed Forces. We've tried until the last day. Our aim is, therefore, to straighten this open account. The money has already been released from equipment and is in the Ministry of Finance to pay our current and retired officials. The first decisions we made were the immediate delivery of the expected days outside the seat of the Prefecture of Evros and the islands of the Aegean Sea in application of the n.d. EC 121993, point 1.2.78. Bull. EC 12-1993, point 1.2.78. Bull. That's what happened. Acknowledging those who "watch the Hoods" and care for national sovereignty and national dignity, those who stand behind our locusts in the emergencies and natural disasters, I declare that the first decision will concern the performance of the border benefit. It's already been executed most of her. In addition, we are considering the introduction of a new special salary for the personnel of the Armed Forces. The most important thing is the mind and soul of the personnel of the Armed Forces. I assure you that the strength of the Armed Forces is guaranteed by the quality superiority of our staff. That is why the human factor is the first priority for the Prime Minister and the government. To this end, too, the strengthening of dignity and the improvement of the living conditions of the personnel of the Armed Forces has been and will remain a beacon of our human resources policy. The revision of the institutional framework for the Staff Regulations, hierarchy and promotion, as well as transfers and placements of officials to positions of responsibility, the establishment of principles of equality and transparency in the positions and transfers of soldiers already covered by a ministerial decision taking into account and socio-economic criteria, and measures to improve their living conditions, has been initiated. We stopped the degenerative phenomenon of segregation of soldiers into privileged and non-preferential. We have reversed the unacceptable situation that we have found overstriked with military personnel from the centre and the dangerously reduced staffing of the units in remote areas. We have already doubled the military staff who since the first day, the first series that entered, has moved to Evros and the islands. Everyone will be serving in Evros and the islands for at least the first time in their term of office. Particular attention has been paid to the establishment of a new institutional framework for the professional development of officials and the upgrading of their education according to international standards. The introduction of a voluntary military mission for women is also under consideration, and we will continue the arrangements for the military settlement of the subordinates. We are establishing a fixed term of office of the Heads of General Staff: two plus one year. We are investing in the extroversion of the Armed Forces through cooperation with the academic community in training and training programs for executives. We continue efforts to upgrade social benefits to executives in matters such as health services, residential services, favourable conditions in banking services. We have already reached an agreement and every member of the Armed Forces has a bank card with special privileges for our executives. Basic principles in our defence policy: Our programme will take flesh and bone through a grid of administrative measures and legislative interventions, through which the objective objectives of national defence policy are achieved. In the context of the country's capabilities and needs, the characteristics of the geopolitical and geostrategic environment, the main threat and the current threats, the requirements for the organisational and operational structure of a flexible, effective and rapid response of a modern army, crisis management capacity, transparency and legality, we will continue to strengthen defence cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus. I would remind you that the organisation and development of the Armed Forces as a fundamental factor of national power and an effective deterrence force is the main objective of our programme. Achieving this aim is: First, the substantial increase in the value of the second, the supply and equipment and the maintenance of weapon systems and instruments, and thirdly, the consolidation of the authority of the Armed Forces, their leadership and executives, the maintenance of high morality and practical recognition by the state of their high mission. For example, the measures and interventions of our programme that cover first of all the areas of the strengthening and reconstruction of the Armed Forces. We are moving towards a redesign of the structure of Forces and the structure of command from zero to create a flexible, more economical and more efficient shape. The proposed new structure will be complemented by a redefinition of war stocks with new criteria. These changes must be made not only for budgetary reasons but primarily for reasons of business, because such an army is more effective in operational terms, it has a better conscience of threat, its mission and its priorities. The aim is not to make full use of the weapon systems and instruments available and to fill gaps in areas that are judged critical in the light of the current financial situation. As regards crisis management in today's rapidly evolving environment, such as recent developments in the Southeastern Mediterranean, Eurasia and the Middle East clearly demonstrate that the concepts of crisis and security go beyond the stereotypes and sheaths of the past, thus making the boundaries between internal and external, symmetrical and asymmetrical threats more and more indiscriminate. Therefore, their theoretical imprints and their strategic management require new thought. Our aim is to strengthen cooperation among all state actors involved in the prevention and management of all kinds of crises. The use of cyberspace, modern forms of piracy, international terrorism, illegal immigration and the refugee problem are areas that require their coexistence and understanding. It is clear that these security challenges cannot be addressed without the cooperation and assistance of the Armed Forces. As far as social provision is concerned, it is a key aspect of our policy that the Armed Forces should be widely involved in actions in favour of society as a whole. That is why we are integrating operational planning with the upgrading of political-military cooperation, which we will pursue. At this point I would like to say briefly that it is important to re-establish MOMA, the 'DERGES', which has already completed its first project. It took the flesh and bones of our programming promise, as we exploited the great potential of the Armed Forces and especially the Engineer and Air Force Services, to the service of the Greek people and to the benefit of the society as a whole, contributing to road and air transport projects and restoring damage in remote areas. Today we are talking about the work of Ikaria, the connection between St. Kerry and the Cancer. The patient needed three and a half hours to go to St. Krykos hospital, and now he's in forty-five minutes. Engineering right now we're talking about is present in Kefalonia. He's present in Skopelos. We directly dealt with natural disasters. We are giving food - and in particular in the areas where we have the refugee problem - with the participation of the army, with portions that only the Armed Forces can produce. We are present everywhere for medical care. We have already prepared the agreement with the Ministry of Education. Any doctor serving in the Armed Forces will be able at the same time to serve his military service and, at the same time, if he serves on a small island, in a mountainous village without a doctor, he will be able to write his term in his countryside. We are doing the same - and we will continue to do - with the possibility that we will give young children a service to "DIDEERGIONS", to MOMA or to other services, to stay in the army for three years, having gained professional experience as operators of machinery, engineers or architects and with this professional experience being able to get into life with a greater armament. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will need three more minutes and I will finish. As far as equipment and infrastructure is concerned, we started and set up the Internal Affairs Committee and, with the cooperation of staff, sent for the first time to the Prosecutor of Corruption, nineteen cases of corruption. You realize that there were signs and monsters, which the popular word says. That is why I am telling you that all nineteen cases have already been brought to the hearings and arrests have already been made. There have been openings of accounts in Greece and abroad and those who have been involved are soon brought to justice. I believe that the justice, which we are helping with the presence of soldiers to resolve issues relating to technical problems, has done a huge job in nineteen cases in a few months, a work that has not been done in recent years. Our guide is the existing institutional processes and widespread ecotechnical costing and efficiency assessment practices. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I want to remind you that the procurement law will change. We will enable the Weapons Chiefs to decide for up to EUR 300,000 in order to remedy the problems in spare parts and in instruments that are not available. We have already proceeded with the sale of expired or to be terminated within the time of armaments supplies, particularly ammunition. This money will meet the needs of EUR 100,000, 000 this year and EUR 200,000, 000 that the institutions require for the next few years and there will be no single euro reduction from the planned planning in our budget. The defence industry has already made a huge effort. The ODA has started with new contracts, with new agreements. The Hellenic Defence Systems have already concluded agreements and opens up the markets around the world, with new productions and staff recruitment, which will take place in Patras. Our aim is to activate the other defence industries, such as ELVO and other smaller industries, which are in the region. I don't have much time to talk. We have activated all EEOs, compensatory benefits, not for the benefit of suppliers but for the benefit of the Armed Forces themselves. Finally - I consider this to be very important - the 34 billion property of the Armed Forces funds, the funds of the Armed Forces belonging to the active and retired personnel, who have brought only one million euros without selling a single millennium of land, we proceed to public tender for their use for fifty or a hundred years with a minimum yield of 5% of the objective value and open competition on the Internet for five days where they can go to investment and that money can go to build houses for the permanent staff of officers - officers and other officials of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u47	You'll miss the plane, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u48	I close, Mr President, by thanking you for the time you have given me, by saying that the Independent Greeks will vote for a vote of confidence. I leave for Brussels, where we have the Council of Defence Ministers. I would like to say that this government with the mandate of the Greek people will be a government that will remain in history as the Government that changed the Migration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u49	Well, according to the same speech, for twelve minutes, I will give Mr. Fotakis the floor. Then there will be no follow-up by Mrs Vakis Fotini, because the proposal by Mr Voutsi's President has been unanimously accepted since yesterday that, after the Minister of State, he does not enter a Member of the Co-Population, but of the Opposition. Mr Tasoulus will therefore be preceded by Mrs Vaki. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on to you in the world of research, an area that, together with education, is high on the agenda for the next day. This is because scientific research can be an impediment to the spiritual, moral and material degradation of society, the result of the crisis. At the same time, the use of knowledge produced by it can give hope and perspective for the winter society. In this context, initiatives in the field of research and innovation at the Ministry of Education focus on two main objectives: The first objective is the scientific research carried out in the country to provide support for education and culture, which is based on the stimulation of these areas, and which helps to create a single research and education area which is a programming objective of government policy. Corresponding, flagship initiatives that link culture to research and technology may highlight the country's comparative advantages and give the mark of timeliness and continuity. The second objective is the great wager with innovation resulting from the use of research results, scientific research becomes a lever for the production reconstruction and development of the country, in order to overcome the social and economic crisis and create prospects for the next day. Many attempts have been made to do this in the past. The results, however, were poor. Clearly, new thought and new approaches need to be taken into account in the formulation of today's international landscape. And this landscape has two features: firstly, the globalisation of the economy and, secondly, the globalisation of knowledge. These objectives will be met by three main actions: Firstly, defending and creating opportunities for the country's exceptional scientific potential and which is its comparative advantage in the international arena. And it is a great pleasure to announce from the Stepping-up of the House that, in a report from the European Union which has been very recently announced among the fifty best research centres, four Greek research centres are present in their performance in competitive programmes of the 7th Framework Programme for Research. And not just that. The Greek research community, researchers of academic institutions, researchers of research centres and researchers from the private sector, managed to attract a competitive contribution from the 7th Framework Programme, more than 1 billion in the seven years 2007-2013, which is much larger than the Greek contribution to the Community research budget. And yet this potential today is bleeding. According to recent information from ‘BLOOMBERG’ and Eurostat, during the five years 2009-2014, during which the incomplete austerity policies dominated, some twenty thousand specialized scientists, academics and researchers left the country. This figure is almost ten times that of previous five years. The prompt announcement of targeted actions under the new NSRF that give opportunities to young researchers to work in the country, with more than two thousand graduates, candidates for doctors and postdoctoral researchers, coupled with the stimulus of research tissue in research centres and academic institutions, to create attractions for young researchers as well as for established scientists operating abroad are at the heart of our design. Second action is to promote legislation that ensures the proper functioning of research centres and frees their possibilities for pursuing scientific quality and real excellence. Legislative arrangements addressing urgent issues will be put in place at the outset following the adoption of the problem n. Date of birth: 4310 in December 2014. These regulations effectively annull this law and measures are taken to ensure the democratic governance of research centres and to limit any arbitrariness, to improve working conditions, in particular for young scientists, and to simplify the rules for the implementation of NRP-funded research programmes. At the same time, the foundations are set for a next long-term framework law on research and innovation. This law will address the question of a sound link between research and production, without distortions resulting from mechanical and ideological approaches aimed solely at usability and leading to the commercialisation of knowledge, ignoring the importance of research results resulting from scientific curiosity. This kind of results resulting from scientific curiosity, as historically proven, have the greatest impact on the real economy. On the contrary, only usable approaches are finally inhibited for the development of healthy entrepreneurship that they are supposed to serve. There is a great deal of analysis that we have done on this issue. The third action focuses on the creation of an independent fund exclusively responsible for funding research in research centres, academic institutions and innovative entrepreneurship. In the first phase, this fund is expected to ensure the continuity and support of research activity, the enrichment of human resources and the upgrading and sustainability of research infrastructures. This phase is determined to start in 2016 and first cover two years, i.e. 2016 and 2017. At the same time, however, there will also be a second phase that will promote innovative entrepreneurship by reducing the cost of money by providing from the low-interest fund for research into innovative enterprises. In this way, both research resulting from scientific curiosity and research linked to market needs and targeted support for innovative and newly-born enterprises will be upgraded. We have advanced discussions with the European Investment Bank for this purpose, since the fund will be based on the synergy between public and private resources. Public resources will come primarily from the new NSRF and private ones will first come from the European Investment Bank's financial instruments. An important element is that the administration of this fund is planned to be independent of the political authority and to ensure reliable, impracticable and transparent research funding procedures. The fund aspires to operate under simple, clear rules that can respond to the dynamics required by the research, while at the same time fully guaranteeing the public interest. The establishment of the Fund and the development of related mechanisms for its operation are expected to allow for a radical revival of research into research centres, academic institutions and businesses and to facilitate the development of a genuine knowledge economy, which will contribute substantially to the country's productive reconstruction. The fund will be established on the basis of international relevant standards and will be a flagrant institutional intervention, since we hope it will have a perspective beyond the 2014-2020 programming period, with the aim of developing and supporting a long-term national policy on research and innovation. There are many details that unfortunately time does not allow me to describe on this fund. But I would like to close by pointing out an issue which is often referred to in recent times and often invokes individuals or groups of people who in practice are on the opposite side of those who defend themselves. At the heart of the actions we are planning is the pursuit of scientific quality and excellence. This is an essential condition for any success and it is not possible to discount. But I have to make it clear: this is a dynamic situation, it is the way to Ithaca. Because for us the pursuit of quality and excellence is not linked to the arrogance that often arises from scientific insecurity, with intentions to exercise hegemony or with punishment. On the contrary, it is linked to the emergence of the powerful elements of people and structures and the mitigation of their weaknesses. Respecting time, I'm ending earlier. I hope that is a good example. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. As we said, instead of Mrs Vakis, who will follow, Mr Tasulas Konstantinos will now speak, then Mrs Vakis, Mr Dousinas and Mr Cassidyris will follow the first quadrant. Then Mr. Contonis will speak. The next four colleagues will be Mr.Micopoulos Alexandros, Mrs. Vultesis, Mr. Santorinios and Mr. Konstantinopoulos Odysseus. And that's how we're gonna go in line with the other ministers. Mr. Tasula, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, during yesterday's reading of the Programming Declarations, the Prime Minister said that there is good evidence in the course of the country that started after the September elections and that all the negative evidence that emerged from the undeniable attitude of lenders is not the responsibility and property of the current government majority, but it was the result of a reciprocity of creditors, the compliance in which and the worst has been prevented. The Prime Minister then analysed ways in which the country would get away from stagnation and, above all, committed itself to creating new public bodies which, in his view, promote economic development. I kept his promise to create a new state bank that will help investment and, if I understood correctly, this House will also play a role in approving investment projects. The Prime Minister, in other words, of the country, who understood all these months is that the answer to the need to improve the country's competitiveness is to strengthen stateism. Because I consider him better than that, I think the Prime Minister was more addressing the candidate apostates, the SYRIZA MPs, in view of the new tough measures which he will bring and he promises that we will compensate for all this by more statism, more return to the past and, obviously, abundant populism. There are two ways of ruling a country. One is to take full responsibility and move on, and the other is to renounce your responsibilities. It is a timely decommissioning of responsibilities. Mr. Tsipras is the example. You know, there's a fascinating moment, but not in this House, in the old Parliament, where a leader had expressed his eulogy. Eleftherios Venizelos delivered his eulogy on April 28, 1932, in response to Alexander Papanastassiou, who accused him of not taking responsibility and being a fatalist. So much has this leader who directed the expression of his epiphany to answer Alexander Papanastassiou, saying that "I am obviously not a fatalist, but I have invested all the fire of my soul, all the fire of my soul, to provoke enlargement and the advancement of this country." The adversary of this conception, the adversary to enchant you with responsibility, is yesterday's presence of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the whole conception that accompanies a left-wing attitude of SYRIZA in recent years, which is temporarily accepted by the Greek people, to be honest. It is his attitude that we are not responsible for what is happening to us. It's very nice not to blame you for what's going on. I'll go the other way. I will not say my eulogy - I do not dare to do so, I have many prejudices - but I will tell you that the greatest challenge for a leadership and for a people is to admit that we are responsible for what is happening in the country. The transfer of responsibility and self-determination is the ultimate devaluation and self-determination. It is a different culture about which I am speaking to you, and I think that if we go beyond this stage, at which you are worthy, and there is audience in the country, we will assume our responsibilities and we will be able to overcome our problems. Mr Tsipras was saying that he is not responsible for what is happening, but he is responsible for the neoliberal policy and the establishment, he imposes on the country for the next fifteen months - because, when we say about the years 2015 and 2016, we forget that in 2015 he pays 6.5 billion euros and brings, not with his words, which he dares not say but with the preliminary budget recession and unemployment, while we had come out with enormous sacrifices by the Greeks and from the recession and from unemployment. He didn't say anything about foreign policy yesterday. He did not say a word about national defence, while Tayyip Erdogan was in Brussels, and he was in touch with our partners, who called him a 'partner', for the protection of maritime borders. And you know what Turkey's views are on our maritime borders and you know how precarious it is to get us into a supposedly common protection of maritime borders within our territorial waters. These are very sensitive issues, they are issues that the Greek Prime Minister has avoided looking for and looking for, because he always avoids the hard stuff. He's an expert on this. We have already heard from the Minister of Defence that the funds for the Greek officers to be disbursed are committed to the Ministry of Finance to implement the decisions of the Council of State. The Ministry of Finance does not belong to another state, it does not belong to another government, it is not a vault that is an insurmountable castle. It is the same government and it is the same culture, which wants responsibility not to be taken over. Mr Tsipras, with his lies and populism, has afflicted the country appallingly and today still refuses to assume his responsibilities. We assume our responsibilities, but not as representatives of a so-called system or a establishment, as you say, but as some people who have learned from our mistakes, we are proud of our offer and do not want this populism which has swept the country into the Migration to allow it to regain its head again. You are the swan song of populism and I believe this song will not last long. We learned it, we are on the other hand banked by him, and we will continue to do so with responsibility and seriousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Tasoula, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u54	It is time for another concept to prevail. There are no establishments, no enemies. We all have the responsibilities and we heard a Prime Minister not taking responsibility yesterday. We are responsible for voting against irresponsible programme statements! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u55	Mrs. Vakis Fotini has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the election victory of 20 September is great and undeniable. SYRIZA canceled the left-hand parentheses scenario, brought an important break in the iron cage of today's Europe and therefore is now playing a leading role in the transition to a new European example of questioning the austerity launched by neoliberalism. The election result has shown that SYRIZA is an expression of hope, is a guarantee of democracy, dignity and social policy, not only for Greece but also for the peoples of Europe. After all, his contribution to changing the correlation of powers in Europe is obvious. The recent period of constant repetition was that in the past six months it focused on the great picture of the negotiation, in the absence of the country's governance. In recent times you have constantly blamed us on the reproach of the lasting extermination of society for a long and barren adventure in which we have involved the people. Within an unfavourable framework of financial suffocation, the government dared to vote for important bills taken as unilateral actions and healed wounds of Greek society. The humanitarian crisis bill gave food, power and shelter to about four hundred thousand families. The bill for the hundred doses of breath and dignity to thousands of natural and legal persons. Dismissed fellow citizens have returned to their jobs. She broke the ERT lock, abolished the five-day in hospitals. Yes, it is true that we fought six months and that we have never defended any sacrificial agreement, if the latter means that we sign whatever paper they bring us before us. Yes, it is true that six months have become a superhuman struggle, because agreement for us is not a neoliberal cutting unaltered processing that is equivalent to social suicide. Because if for some people the memorandum even existed, we should invent it, for us the aim is to decapitate and regain popular sovereignty and the dignity of the citizen. And if for some people the negotiation was with a success story, our weapons were to denounce that a European country of the 21st century had one and a half million unemployed and children who faint from hunger. He had self-sufficient and homeless. Homes and human rags. Our success story was to show that an unsustainable debt makes life unsustainable and that the king of the eurozone is naked. Within one night the world realised the political dimension of the debt crisis and Germany lost half a century of moralism. I'm not saying that, is Jurgen Hubermas. If, then, the component of the program of the Anti-Population Party is the deregulation of work and the liberation of redundancies, redundancies and even the 'usable' - in your expression - our fellow citizens who sent back to their jobs the Katrugalo Law, the worthy code of our programme is the class-shaped bias for the benefit of the weak, it is the protection of living work and the restoration of the wounded political relationship and citizen. And if for some of you the memorials are an ideological choice, for us it is a imperative necessity that we must overcome by countering equivalent measures. The fight against corruption, tax evasion and the interlocutory of a self-produced client state is no wish, no abstract invoking good administration - which no one needs to be left to invoke. It is an effective tool for building ex nihilo a rule of law which is the only path of equilibrium and social justice. In addition, the 35 billion package with the new NSRP that we have managed to ensure a hundred percent European funding and emphasises not more in pharanonic projects but in new scientists, tourism and small and medium-sized enterprises, creates a development horizon that can decapitate society from the impoverishment that has brought the memorials and restores vision, prospects and hope to the new generation that has been condemned either unemployment or migration. But in addition to budgetary figures, the long way to an anthropocentric transformation of society goes through education and democracy and the restoration of the lost value of democracy, we have some examples of writing. Democracy means a more human penitentiary system that breaks the prison in prison. It means citizenship to immigrant children and excellent schools for all. It means emancipation from evaluation - parody and fencing punishment and redundancies and democratically elected administrations in schools and universities. The road to democracy passes through the University of the 21st century with a inspired research method and a shell of critical reflection, with a protected institutional environment to promote research and the principles of publicity and accountability. Education became a foreground bed and a field of experimentation and pre-formal dialogues. A radical reform that will begin must make the whole educational community a society of the problem and start with an equal public consultation. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with a comment on the refugee. In the landscape of the crisis, the refugee's figure was boldly invaded by reminding the aggression of Europe's founding values and principles by those who raised barriers and wires and made the Mediterranean the largest wet grave that dugs up children's bodies. The translation of our worthy core of human rights into refugees' reception and hospitality policies turned Greece and gradually tend to turn Europe from an endless concentration camp...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u57	Mrs. Vaki, set the good example. You are also a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, just a minute. I'll be done in a minute. ...in a workshop of political feelings of solidarity, opening the streets to self-evident, the right of everyone to have rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u59	I would ask Mr Dousina Konstantinos to take the floor for six minutes. Mr. Dousina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because of my profession, the deformation professionelle, the deformation of the profession, I shall speak at a slightly different level. I will talk to you about the worthy commitments behind the Programmatic Declarations, the promises made by this government, but also the radical Left of the 21st century to the Greek people, the Greek citizens. First commitment: It has to do with morals and morals. The left ethos is a side - not the only one - of what we called "Greek ethos". I learned it in the neighborhoods of Piraeus in the 1960s and 1970s. And in 1974 I left. I went to London, where I've been forty years. And I returned to Greece three weeks ago. I'm stuck with the badges. I wrote books, probably more than a writer should write when he respects himself in his life. And parentheses: I represent here and since-democratic Hellenism, the neo-immigrants. I picked up my students, picked up the kids with the many masters and the doctors three weeks ago in London, who work as barmen and as secretaries, and told them that a great responsibility of mine, a great duty is to talk to them as well. And not only should we mourn the Brain Drain, but also take measures, as I have heard before, to change it. From the outset Hellenism is an integral organic part of the Greek social fabric. But, unfortunately, it's not part of the political body. Another great responsibility, then, is to give the Greeks the right to vote. But to go back to the Greek spirit. Can we define it? I think it's hard. But paraphrasing Augustine's definition of time - "I don't know what time it means, but I know it when it passes" - I will say: I don't know what Greek ethos means, but I know it and I see it when it's gone. And the Greek ethos came under attack for the last fifteen years: the ten years of falsified modernisation and the five years of the social latitude of the memorials. In the Communities of Sydney and Melbourne, Stockholm and Frankfurt, where you have chosen for the last six years, we then agreed with the other colleagues, emigrants and new immigrants Greeks that whatever the Greek ethos is at least three attributes: friendship, ambition, hospitality. And for the last 15 years friendship has become alienated, withdrew from the public. The ambition, which is the aesthetic aspect of morality, the satisfaction of the project's self-interest to be proud of what I do, became a possessive individualism. In the years of fat cows was an aggressive atomicism. In the five-year period of the memorandum, a defensive atomicism followed by hypocrisy and cynicism. Hypocrisy: The tax that maliciousness pays and arrogantness pays in virtue. Of course, hospitality, this open patriotism towards the foreigner, who has now become a xenophobia, a revulsion from the foreigner and the other to whom the Greeks of solidarity have responded. The baker of Kos, the priest of Mytilini, answered, the shepherd of Lemnos. But this spirit, which was under attack and was lost, returned to the great resistance of the Greek people. In the great solidarity initiatives, social movements, the social economy, what we saw when the squares left and went to the neighborhoods, towns and all over Greece. So this is the first worthy commitment. In addition to the reversal of the economic catastrophe, apart from the end of the medium-term, we will try to reverse the long-term attack on our Greek ethos with social policies, with policies in education and culture, to change what is being done today in Greece. Yesterday our President, Mr Voutsis, told us that we are a temple of democracy. But what does democracy mean? It's the state of the city. It's the power of the people. And as Plato says, democracy is the civilization in which those who have no money do not run, those who have knowledge - today degrees - or those who are older and presumptionally more discreet. They command those who have no special qualifications to command. Everybody. And that's gone. And this is the second commitment we make to our Programmatic Declarations, through the introduction of the institutions of direct democracy to the state, with veto, with the referendum and through forms of direct democracy of the other kind, which is becoming a kind of life, as we live in. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, I'd like to. This is my first address to this House. So we take the experiences of networking, social movements, solidarity, and take lessons from them and put them at the heart of our political life. Two forms of democracy of direct, state and democracy in society. To conclude, I should like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I, where I was living in England, have seen the attacks on Greece, but I have also seen the interest that exists throughout Europe today in what has been happening in recent months in Greece. SYRIZA is a scandal - in the fatherly sense - this event changes the root of history. And since the beginning of 2015, an arc of virtue from Turkey in Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Scotland, now and in Great Britain has started all over Europe. It is the result of the fact that this way of dominating Europe, the European Union over the last five years has been in retreat. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] And here, then, we Greeks, a small people, have the huge paradox that in all our history we have put universal, universal values in the forefront. Ancient Greece, the idea of Europe, the idea of the right speech, the idea of the practical word, the word doubling, the Greek Revolution, which, as Hegel said, and the post-chegellians, but also the great romantic poets, put the idea of freedom in history worldwide. And now the SYRIZA's scandal, which puts it, is more likely to put the end to the end of history, the restart of history. And we have a huge responsibility, especially SYRIZA. Because it's hard to do, probably impossible. But because it's difficult and impossible, that's why we'll make it possible. Because it has to be done, we'll make it happen! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you very much. I say that our responsibility is to Greece, to Europe and to the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Cassidy from Golden Dawn for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u62	I will start with a few references to the tragic situation that this country is experiencing, because we need to talk about a country, a state, a government - an opperette. When there is no money in Greek society, Greek citizens are flying away, at the same time there are untapped spaces, asking for investments, for investments to come, for investments here, for money to come into the country, and for spaces like the Greek, the Olympic real estate we spent millions of euros and the government decides within these spaces, instead of calling for investors, instead of opening up jobs, to put illegal immigrants. And we see Olympic real estate and works filled with illegal immigrants. There is no prospect in Greece with the turn that has taken things. All the profitable businesses, i.e. the airports of Greece, the airport in Heraklion, Crete, which enter thousands of charterers daily and bring revenues, brings money to the state funds, to be sold. The OPAP is for sale. It's all sold out, everything they bring money to the country. All of Greece's resources will be made available to the foreign player and, on the other hand, while the country's human resources migrate abroad, tens of thousands of illegal immigrants enter Greece every day. Today we have Tsipras trip to Lesvos. Why did he go to Lesvos and not go to Kos, where there is more organized response from the citizens? And we have seen government actors, ministers, MPs, Commissioners of the Avramopoulos go to Kos and citizens welcome them with yoghurt. And very rightly they do, because it is not the situation that has been created in the Greek islands and cities of Greece. Only we, the Members of the Golden Dawn, have had a very positive acceptance from the citizens. The accident is that the citizens on these islands, when we stepped on our foot there in the area that has become a man of illegal immigrants and does not dare the Greek citizen on the most tourist island of Greece, they told us "save us". This is what we collected from the citizens in Kos, Kalymnos and the other islands of Greece. So we have a major danger facing our country. In a few years we will be a minority in Greece. The Prime Minister of Greece comes to this one, who was certainly elected by the minority of citizens, to tell us that he will make hot spots on the islands. Francesco Geoffrey Papandreou. Similar situations that we experienced in PASOK when Jeffrey Papandreou went abroad and spent millions of dollars on the state budget to take his walks. Tsipras does exactly the same today. And it is enough to read today to understand that the left government is in no way left. It is a government that spends only on GULFSTREAM fuels with which the Prime Minister is going to America EUR 150 000, EUR 13 000 for car rental for a trip to America, EUR 17 000 for ERT and EUR 7 000 for a personal photographer. Do you understand what we're talking about? When the people fall? The public spending 7 thousand euros on the Prime Minister's photographer, who lived at Hilton Garden Inn Manhattan Midtown East, at the cost of spending 850 euros at night. Tell them to the Greek citizens who chose a left-wing government. But it's not just the economic issue. A major issue has been raised here with the privileges of the political system which all parties are fine to receive. The parties share 50 million a year only for funding, except for the Golden Dawn. We do not get any money from public funds and we have proved that parties do not need money. We have taken all the elections in the last two years, national, European elections, self-government, throughout Greece, we have offices, we have political action across Greece, without taking any money from the Greek public. And he appears president of a party from the so-called opposition yesterday on TV and says, "We will take all the privileges and we, which are a new party. We are not missionaries." So we're missionaries who don't get any cash from the public while people are hungry? We have made a proposal for a law and we say that we should abolish the money to the parties and this money, the 50 million euros a year, go to the young Greeks born, so that this state shows that it wants to solve the major danger right now for Greece, the risk of birth. Nothing happened, though. We have made another proposal for a law and we say that the Greek exclusive economic zone should be declared. Maximum theme for Hellenism, proclaim an EOZ in order to exploit our energy deposits, our national resources, the oil and natural gas that Greece has proved to have. Because, as you have seen, the televisions, of course, did not say so - a new gas look emerged, in the Egyptian exclusive economic zone, at the border with Greece. Expansion of this stadium is located south of Crete and there is too much money, it is hundreds of billions of euros, according to foreign loan sharks, Deutsche Bank, according to Greek university professors. Absolutely nothing. No energy at all. The Prime Minister of this country, as were his predecessors, when he goes hand in hand with Yanna Angelopoulou at the Clinton Foundation. We all remember Tsipra a decade ago when he did the angry youth, protesting against the advent of Clinton in Greece. And now Yanna Angelopoulou takes him and takes him to the Clinton Foundation, where by the way he gives a miserable image, an icon that proves that today, unfortunately, substitutivity reigns in our homeland. But that's not the way Greece is. Greece also has capable minds and good people and mainly has energy, natural resources, which we must exploit and get out of this stagnation. I will close with the question of geopolitical reversal, which our country must finally do. All these walks in the United States of America have seen where we have been from 1974 and the Cyprus issue, until 1996 in Imia, until today when our Americans forbid us to exploit our natural resources. A world war is currently taking place in the Eastern Mediterranean. Russia's intervention in Syria has completely changed the status quo in our region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Greece is required to reverse its geopolitical orientation, to move on to new alliances, so that the Greek factor in the Eastern Mediterranean is strengthened. I will use another minute, as all previous speakers have done. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] I close with the major issue of the scandals of corruption and the political cleansing required by the Greek society. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] We don't have a problem. We can talk with voices. And we'll keep talking, Mr. President. We don't have a problem. Keep going with the siren! Political clearance is needed. However, in a government where the previous Minister for Corruption had personally answered to me that it is impossible to open the Lagard List, the Luxembourg List, the London real estate list, off-shore companies with black political money, we cannot expect anything at all. The Golden Dawn says "no" to SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence, because it is another confrontation subordinate to the foreign factor. Golden Dawn at last requires political cleansing, fighting corruption and national sovereignty. Greece belongs to the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a point, which I would ask everyone to understand. Even the indirect call for use of weapons has consequences. Mr. Kontonis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u64	Is that something personal, Mr. President? Let me answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u65	It's a comment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u66	It's nothing personal. It wasn't about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u67	It was about your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u68	I'll give you a personal answer for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u69	You have given me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u70	What point did I refer to using weapons? No one understood what you said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u71	If the language of your mind is ahead of you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u72	Explain, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u73	...walk to hear your speech about Kos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u74	No, you explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u75	...and how the world is waiting for weapons - I don't know who - and then you'll see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u76	It's your obligation to explain! If I have made a mistake, take responsibility. Where and when did we talk about the use of weapons, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u78	Will you explain to us what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, five months ago, it was held in Parliament's Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u80	You're going to drive us crazy! Mr President, you will confirm the title given to you by your name!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u81	...a debate on the bill brought by the government to a vote on the fight against violence and corruption. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4326 was passed by the Plenary Assembly and is a law of the state. I shall not go into the objections of opposition today, which were unfair and inappropriate, as I will not refer to the designations offensive to the bill and the provisions which were made in it. I shall refer to a provision which has been tabled by too many - fortunately not all of us! - Officers of the Police Department, as to the fact that the law will not be implemented. You have judged the odds yourself, ladies and gentlemen! Because you have to admit today, five months after the law was passed, that the law that has been passed has been implemented and applied outright in all its parts. For the first time, the online ticket, which you had voted on ten years ago, is being applied. And we ask you: Really, what has prevented the law that was passed by the majority since 2005? Why did the system have to be spent by the State of EUR 14,000,000 on the purchase of this system, without finally operating, when the system has been placed on all the stadiums of the First National Soccer and Basketball Class and was not spent by the Greek State and not a single euro? We're asking! Why did the state have to not collect taxes and have an extensive tax evasion? And why did the legal class have to bleed every Sunday? Do you have any answers to what we've done? What prevented you, ladies and gentlemen, ten years from applying a dignified law by the Greek Parliament and the parliamentary process being the client state, which you had built for so many years, is your involvement with the great economic and productive interests, are the services you have given to the parties' players, precisely because that was the way it was focused on all the greatness of what you had built for decades: the customer state. For the first time, then, ladies and gentlemen, an electronic ticket to the stadiums and a system of racing surveillance! For the first time, all the OLAFs submit a guarantee letter to the Committee on Professional Sports, to allow them to participate in the championships, thereby guaranteeing the demands not only of the employees but also of the Greek public. We ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why didn't you do this not ten, twenty, but thirty years? Why were there football anonymous companies that had to deposit a guarantee letter for many years and were found to be amazed at the faithful compliance of the law? For the first time, it is a prerequisite for the teams to be involved in the championships to regulate debts towards the administrations of national stages. And we ask you, because for so many years football anonymities - not all of them, but many - made use of national property, of the stadiums and did not pay legal fees. Why did we find debts at the OECD 13,000 euros and at the Peace and Friendship Stage 4,000,000 euros? Why? Was it the funds of the administrations, or was it the money of the Greek people that were not collected by the administrations of the stages following political orders received by the PASOK and New Democracy governments? For the first time, the disciplinary bodies of all federations are formed by ordinary judges. And one last outstanding thing that existed with the Greek Football Federation is solved these days in a spirit of understanding and understanding of the maintenance of legality, without barbarous controversy and austerity. For the first time, we have the fight against the manipulation of matches and the intervention of the State and the Government at all levels with administrative fines, which have already been imposed on certain anonymous football companies and basketball companies, in the context of the self-management of federations, not recognizing - as under the law - the status of autonomy, namely immunity and non-controlling. This is the first time, ladies and gentlemen, on the left! The government of co-operation, with SYRIZA's trunk, provided samples of writing in the past eight months. The Court of Auditors has been reconstituted and regular and extraordinary checks are currently being carried out in all the federations. I ask you: why was this procedure in your day completely inappropriate? Why has there been no control over financial management in recent years? And the prosecutors, the federations and the sports centres, where we found illegality, are being sent to them. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Secretary-General]] I need some time, Mr President. We're limiting the waste. Why, ladies and gentlemen, did the Left Government need EUR 39,850 in the first half of this year, while in the previous six months expenditure spent EUR 1,000 for 2014 and EUR 1,800,000 for 2013? Why? Did we miss anything? We canceled an unacceptable tender for the supply of twenty tabletops worth EUR 72,000. With this money we will be able to repair the roof of the OAS gym so that athletes of the track can have a human space for their training. With a fair budget restructuring, the savings we have made and the fight against waste, we have financially strengthened the National Council against Doping, which had a budget - listen! - 50,000 euros and we brought it up to 230,000 and avoided international impoverishment because it is certain that we would have had an abortion from the global federation of Greece. We supported the national stages with 22,000 million, which we found in a bad state. We have already made 90% of the annual grant and finally licensed spaces built on your days and found no building permits, such as the facilities of Agios Cosmas, the cyclometer and the tennis of OASA. We upgraded the Standing Committee on the Management of Violence and the Committee on Professional Sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u82	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have supported mass sport programmes from EUR 1,25 million to EUR 2.5 million. We have launched a serious effort to redefine the relations between the governments of the European Commission and the international federations at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, in the direct objectives of the Government, it is an up-to-date list of the operating specifications of all stages, the establishment of an electronic platform for the recording of all recognised sports clubs and the establishment of a framework for assessing all sports federations on objective, qualitative and developmental criteria, so as to go where the grants and money of the Greek people must go. Created and will complete the work of the Legislative Committee on the New Sport Law by 31-12-2015. The statutes and regulations of all federations by the General Secretariat of Sports will be checked on a permanent basis. From 1-11-2015, it will apply to all fields 1 of National Football and basketball electronic entry control system. A timetable for the departure of the Greek police will be drawn up in the course of the year. Legislative provisions will be provided for and there will be a strict legislative framework for private storage companies. From 1-1-2016 for the first time will apply the fan card, which you had legislated ten years ago and had remained in complete inertia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you will have the opportunity to speak again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u85	In the course of the year, the direct introduction of a special fee on the transfer of professional athletes in favour of amateur sport will be legislated and there will be a small proportion of the tax on sports betting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting as I'm done. This government has passed a law. And this law applies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u86	Minister, finish the way you started.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u87	I'm done. If some thought we would back up, we tell them once again that this government does not fund or blackmail or fear. Let them take this seriously and put it right in their minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u88	Names. The whole party doesn't get any money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u89	You don't have the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u90	The temple of democracy will not say such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u91	Why are you complaining?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u92	You're addressing the party, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u93	Mr Colleague, you have no say. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say that overrun of time amounts to a removal of time from the rest of the speakers. Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I note that this practice has been inaugurated since yesterday: that is, in the memorial with an antimonetary rhetoric. The truth is that the government is in a very difficult position indeed. Where you were all sworn out of the memorials, austerity and evaluation together, now declare that the agreement must be implemented quickly, the evaluation must be done quickly and the measures must be implemented together with a so-called parallel programme. So what does government propaganda say now? It says that all of this - the evaluation, the memorandum, the measures - must be carried out in order to move forward on the debt issue. What were you saying in the previous programme and throughout the election period last January? You said that you would first delete the debt so that you would not make the assessment and that you would not impose austerity. In other words, people who prevented the fifth assessment - we would have gone to the debt debate - now they say that we have to do their own assessment, implement their own measures, so that the debt debate can begin. The Prime Minister himself said so yesterday from Stepa: the agreed measures must be implemented to get out an hour before the suffering of the committee. But when we talked about it, we were 'Merckelists'. When we told you that the banks had to be recapitalised, you told us we were giving the bankers money. Now you're telling us that in order for our credit system to be strong, banks must be recapitalised and how? With twenty-five billion euros, which the Greek people borrow and where will they come from? Of the 50 billion demilitarisations. But when we were talking about demilitarization, it was a sale! Now a sale will be made to give the money to the bankers, as you would say if you were opposition today. We also heard the crown yesterday that the banks will get managers from the government that controls them. This is never going to happen, you know well, you signed it in the third memorandum, the banks are under the ultimate control of the CFS. And you just say it, the Prime Minister just says it. If it hadn't been for the current government to behave like this, if you hadn't told so much lies, now we would have finished with the memoranda and the evaluations, we would have been on the market and the debt debate would have been the same. But no, we had to go to the third memorial, the Tsipra - Kammenos memorial, to enjoy it! And why did all this happen? Because all these months you have hidden from your components the agreement of 20 February. And now you're here to do what you don't understand. You didn't understand before, you don't understand now. And the facts are known, a planned bluff. When you were faced with the harsh reality and had to impose the capital controls, you thought to keep your audience warm with a referendum. You put them to vote well 'no', you sent them for a bath and as long as they took a bath, you did 'no' 'yes' and then you came back to the House and said that you brought a deal and we had to agree on it and vote for it on the Eve of Fifteen. And we - to explain - voted for the agreement, so that we do not go to unscrupulous bankruptcy - to take the eighty-five billion to keep the country out of the euro - and then you said to the whole world 'go to bath in Fifteen August and leave'. Mr Tsipras said "we will go to a conference, we will see from October to November". It's good we were ready. And suddenly 20 August you are calling elections - the elections of the swimsuit and the soyonara - and bring your audience from the beach to the polls. And that's what you call political intelligence, political ability? That's a felony. And then the election result was set. When has he changed the vote in eight months in the country's history to change now? Well, that's it. You will vote by your majority, the majority that Mr Tsipras chose - is the first party and went directly to the latter. You've got it. You have a hundred and fifty-five Members. Fifty-five "yes" will be heard by your name. You have the votes to do your job. So you will get the trust from the parties you have chosen to be in the government. I would like to say another thing about the issues of education. It is your choice, ladies and gentlemen, VAT 23%. It exists within the draft SYRIZA's program in August and was artificially removed in September. Because here in the previous programmes, the previous Minister of Education said that it is a very bad thing to have private schools, private education, that is, where the village child is learning English - we are not talking about the big schools or the big interests - because that, he said, is a disaster for the education of the country. I have one last thing I want to finish, because I don't want to take the time, really. You have started another tactic: "You are not entitled to speak." You keep saying that the Greek people were called and spoken and then the Qualified Opposition should not say its opinion. You'll let that go. We will give our opinion, we will criticise and you will not issue any such announcements to get the messages of the elections. Because the messages of the elections are that, without the abstention you got 40%, the whole of the two parties, so you have a 60% against you, if you want to go with the messages of the elections. If you want to go with democracy, we will give our opinion, even if we are 1%, not 28% solid, permanent and united. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Meikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since honesty no one has lost, so telling the truth I think it gives credibility rather than subtracts points. So, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, at least we have never had an existential relationship with memorial choices and austerity and recession choices, nor have we ever baptized success storey policies, which poorly undermined the vast majority of Greek society. We expect from you at least one self-critic for at least two and a half - three years that you have ruled. We've never heard of her. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we have brought about an agreement which is not only below our estimates and expectations, but also below the expectations of the world. We have, however, chosen to make a choice with the following narrative: we did not want to become heroes of one night and then collect the outcry of the world, since we would be the exclusive responsible for a great national tragedy without precedent. So we made a difficult choice. They are part of this choice and several positive aspects, but we cannot ignore the truth, that there are problematic aspects that need improvement. Despite the fact that we have managed and internationalised the Greek problem, despite the fact that we have managed and enrolled in the agreement for the first time in five years, the non-viability of the Greek debt and from October, the great debate is starting, not just about whether it should be reduced, but about what depth and extent this will be, despite the fact that, for the first time, the European people have shown such great, practical solidarity - not in the period of the junta, if you remember, the mass mobilisation of the European peoples against the Greek problem - despite the fact that the fight of Alexis Tsipras, but also of SYRIZA in an indirect way, also in a number of European countries - to remind you of the change that took place in the Labour Party of England where they chose Jeremy Corbin, a man with progressive and a left profile - but this is something we have an agreement that we have to implement from and that we have not been able to make out of. There is room for alleviating the difficult aspects, but also for us to begin seeing more light on the tunnel, in which we have been in the past five years. If we try to describe the profile of the next day, this description will have the following features: on the one hand, there is a difficult and suffocating economic framework within which we will be called upon to act, but on the other hand we cannot exhaust our policy into material choices. So there are huge fields which do not have budgetary costs. However, if we can do the necessary areas and interventions in these fields, then they will leave a stop. They'll create and continue to give to the social person we've shown in the past seven months. So let me briefly refer to a major and, in my opinion, a crucial issue, that of changing the way in which it is managed, namely the reconstruction of public administration. We have started some interventions in this area in the past seven months and will continue on the road that we opened for public administration on a number of key lines. First of all, we will try to increase the transparency of public administration. There will therefore be free access to information from public bodies. We're going to hit red tape and corruption. There will therefore be a strengthening of e-government. The electronic ERMIS JEP, which gives itself about twenty certificates and two to three days in the email of each citizen about fifty papers and certificates, is already ready. Every day, in fact, new services will be incorporated. This involves reducing administrative burdens and saving resources on the other hand. We are therefore reorganising, ladies and gentlemen, fundamentally, the public sector with four moves, while supporting our policy on the knowledge and administrative experience of civil servants, who have a high level of education and training. All these years, then, we've been untapped and we'll try to show them up. There will therefore be a profound organisational change in the entire public sector with new organograms, a description of jobs per specialty and a specific record. There will be a new mobility system within the public sector, based on voluntary movement of civil servants, covering specific staff shortages, full transparency through an information system for monitoring the internal labour market in the public sector. So we have a productive planning of public recruitment policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Thirdly, there will be evaluation and evaluation of the work of the public administration, with a system of evaluation, which will ultimately aim to upgrade public sector services to citizens. A fourth feature is the upgrading of the National Centre for Public Administration, with a new establishment plan and an upgraded political role. He will also be the State's official advisor on public administration issues. The National Centre for Public Administration and Administration will therefore be a national strategic body for the development of the human resources of public administration and local administration in order to contribute to the development of a productive and efficient administration, because with research, documentation and innovation, the production of administrative staff and the upgrading of existing capacity through continuing training, the EMCDDA can provide the guarantees for the modernisation of public bodies and the provision of quality services to citizens. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With the Programming Declarations we do not describe a situation which refers to alkonidae days or say that the road ahead of us is rounded with rose petals. However, what we can guarantee is the continuation of that seven-month course, which had a very specific mark on SYRIZA's progressive governance. We're talking about the social person, what's missing from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u97	The first speaker to keep year round will receive a good report! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Mr. Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary term is the natural continuation of the previous term of office, a difficult term, but also essential to our country's effort to get rid of the sins of forty years that have led to the last five catastrophic years. In our conscience, the victory of the recent elections did not bury or alter the goals we had set in our programme posts in our first Programmatic Declarations. The new mandate given to us by the people is a mandate of responsibility and maturity. It is an order to end with the old and dreadful policies that have led us to this end. The Greek people are well aware of the difficulties of the agreement that we signed. But, at the same time, he proved by his vote that he alone trusts us to implement this agreement, with social justice and with a view to the country's substantial productive reconstruction. It was never confirmed to us. It was and is the real exercise of politics, which will bring our vision of the immobilization of the weak in society and of the establishment of the rule of law in the country. Our governance will only have historical meaning when those social and institutional reforms are taken into account that are going to level what they are old and worn down in this place, at the expense of many with the blessings of the economic oligarchy. And since I am talking about the economic oligarchy, I would like to know this, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population: what are you really going to do with the bill on broadcasting that the few-gaugeers are seizing? You didn't answer that. We want and we will be able to bring a new economic and productive model to the country, a productive model with a social, innovative and environmental mark. In order to achieve this, we will make use of every production power of the place, by strengthening newly developed businesses, innovation and research, we will proceed to the introduction of a new development law and we will make use of financial opportunities, such as the NRP, to create a high-tech, specialisation and innovation economy. At the same time, our aim is to attract foreign private investment in terms, however, of transparency and the protection of the public interest. That is why we are directing the new Public Property Certification Fund to operate in terms of real use and not in terms of a sale, as the sinner GIDE has so far done. That is why we will also institutionalise a special public investment attraction body, which will ensure a clean investment environment for investors, away from 'days' misery and compulsory assignments to specific study and contractors offices, which also happens to be related policies, a body that ensures the public interest and reduces the cost of bureaucracy for the investor. For us development is not the levelling-up of industrial relations and the establishment of a working middle ages. That is why it is our priority to restore the institution of collective bargaining and the protection of employees' rights. In the agreement that we have brought, there is a vital space to introduce equivalent measures on taxation, labour, pensions, axes which we will renegotiate with a renegotiation and presentation of alternatives. We believe in social reforms. Now is the last time we have to structure and implement them. Such reforms are, at last, the application of the House and the Stock Exchange, regulations that were included in all previous agreements, but have never been implemented, curiously. Such a reform is the reorganisation of public administration to eliminate bureaucracy and rationalise the internal service organisations of public bodies, while applying voluntary mobility. Perhaps more important reform is the introduction of a truly simple and fair tax system that combats tax evasion and tax evasion and at the same time distributes burdens to citizens, on the basis of the redistribution of income. Because I don't have much time and because I want to stay in time, I want to answer something that was said before. Electionally you lied, but say it, and today it's a lot!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u99	Who lied?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u100	You have told us today that we have charged the country with ECU 86 billion. Can we see who these are? We have reduced by 11 billion the country's debt from the second to the sixth month of 2015, paying for these 11 billion people. We transferred 48 billion at lower interest rates, transferred that debt that existed. The recapitalisation of the 25 billion banks is not going to take place with the administrations you had in the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u101	You're gonna put on some more?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u102	If they take 25 billion then we will - yes, Mrs Vulture - public management.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u103	Why haven't you changed them so long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u104	You'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u105	Write that down, we'll laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u106	As for the remaining 8 billion, it is the budget deficit, which you yourself should have faced, and we knew it very well from January. You taxed the country and you know it. And we'll save her, and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u107	The euphemistic reference goes to Mr Santorinio. I'm sure Rhodes will be proud. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here again, almost eight months from the beginning of February, when we discussed and voted on the programme statements for the first time in Cameroon. You have given a vote of confidence to the left and right-wing populism, in order to implement your programme, to tear out the memorials, to abolish the ENPIA, to restore the thirteenth pension, the tax-free of 12,000 euros and much more. Mr. Tsipras said you were the every word of the Constitution and you ended up being the word of Mr. Shoeble's programme. After eight months and - let us not forget - seventeen hours of negotiation a new memorandum of 25 billion is here. Three months of capital control, one hundred and eighty thousand redundancies under the "ERGANI" system in the last days of June and all in July, forty-five days pre-election period, two elections, one "no" and many "yes". And now, since Thursday, the account started coming: HISPIA, retrospective tax loose ends. There is no increase in the minimum wage. There's no tax free. And, unfortunately, they are returning under the 'Katrugalou' law and the prosperous civil servants. This is a government that has renounced sovereignty. Three billion euros from the ESRB are at risk of being lost, and VAT has increased. This is the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Kammenos. Now the bill's coming. First time so much left lies, second time broken Left! You spoke in the elections about a parallel programme, but you did not present it yesterday. Finally, what do you want on Wednesday? Vote for the parallel program? Vote for Thessaloniki Program? Vote for the third memorandum? And within this blurred political context, you will allow me to speak about the polling companies. Premeditated or unwittingly acquired a political role for the first time in these elections, through their strategy or their failure they created artificial polarization that the two major parties could not make and supported the percentages of SYRIZA and New Democracy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is it not a question of democracy or not? Will you deal with it with the TV licenses we expect you to bring the law? Ladies and gentlemen, in the last eight months, due to your inertia, more than 3 billion has been lost in the NSRP, 3 billion in new jobs. And since you have the former commander of IKA, he could bring you evidence of how many thousands of new jobs, based on IKA data, were created in 2014. The two hundred and fifty thousand new jobs were from programmes which were already ready by Mr Kegeroglu and you did not even implement one. Your supposed request, which you have been regrouping for too long, to extend the 2007-2013 programme has never been submitted to the European Commission, and most likely it is that the money will be lost. As I hear every time from Mr Stathakis - I heard the Prime Minister, I hear all of you - about the new development law, Mr Stathakis has three times, from March to today, said that the development law is coming every three months. It is not even the Prime Minister yesterday who said it was over. I heard Mr Tsipras yesterday get our slogan, which is very right, not to lose a single euro from the ESDP, not to return a single euro to Brussels. Can he tell us what Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Tsipras did in his seven-month term, tell us what the absorption is? We can give you data: In 2014 we had 96.4% absorption and 5.8 billion euros. Mr Stathakis himself said on 1 April - I have the statements here and I will make them - that previous governance and management of the ESRB operate very well. The first time on the left! Just before the elections, along with Mr. Harissis, who is a member of the "I don't pay", he said the law was problematic. Who was telling the truth? The first time on the left or the second time on the left? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, don't worry! We will not make the opposition you have made. They do not belong to our political substance and to pluralism, to populism, to overconservative embrace with Mr Kammenos, to embrace in the squares with fascists, insults and propaganda. I said in August that the Democratic Party should not vote for the Memorandum, not because we became an anti-monetary, but because it was obvious that Mr Tsipras wanted to go directly and quickly to elections and signed this memorandum leading the country to elections. And it is obvious to everyone today that a memorandum with 95% taxes and 5% reduction in public expenditure is not realistically applicable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me to speak as much as the rest, Mr President. But listen to Mr Moscovisi who said yesterday - and nobody came out of the government to deny it - that new measures are coming after the prerequisites. However, the only, ladies and gentlemen of the government, parallel programme that you have had is the parallel programme of new measures with lenders, agreed by Mr Tsipras. And because I'm listening to you verbally to take advantage of the complexion and the few-dollars, you should take care of it. Don't beat them up in the morning and eat with them at night. Take note of this, because the fewer men we know, and we all know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u109	You obviously know them because you and breakfast eat with them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u110	You know them in particular!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u111	We invite you to bring all these laws that will bring transparency, hit the conflict and corruption, and we will be with you. But they will not close their eyes to other, new business interests. We need uniform rules for all of us, and we are here, if mistakes have been made in the past, to change them. But if you have your mind to bring in new fewer people, you know that won't go any further. If you want to create new jobs, to talk about Greece of 2030, we must become a new deal with the business world. Only through the business world will we bring new jobs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Constantinople, the time board is across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I have recently heard Mr Papadimoulis please and wish Mr Tsipras to go as an observer to the European Social Democrats. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Only as smugglers can you be social democrats!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u114	Fortunately, thank God!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u115	Leave the tricks and the terrain! You must choose: Or steal, as you have done so far, or give birth to solutions for the country. Good luck!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u117	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor because the previous speaker has heard things that go beyond any imagination. Has SYRIZA ever asked to join the European Socialists?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Papadimoulis said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u120	SYRIZA is a member of the European Left. And not only that, but the European Left had made the honour of the President of SYRIZA to be the leader of the European campaign in the 2014 European elections and to achieve a result for Greece, which was the first to come for both Greece and Europe. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Therefore, there is no intention of joining the European Socialists, nor are we seeking to do that. What we are seeking, however, is that there should be a coexistence of the progressive forces in Greece and in Europe against conservative choices and against neoliberal choices, these choices, unfortunately, that PASOK as a government has served faithfully. And not only did he serve them faithfully, but he has been smiling for years as a government partner of the New Democracy! So, ladies and gentlemen, things are very clear here. SYRIZA is a party of the European Radical Left and of the Radical Ecology, and you have an identity problem. Finally, make it clear whether you are with the European Neo-liberal Right or with the struggle that people are giving in Europe, in order to get rid of the memoranda and neoliberal policies. Answer that at last, and leave all the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u122	All the rest are prophecies in sin and you know it very well. The forces in the European Parliament are given evidence. SYRIZA belongs to the European Left and is it good for you to tell us what policies are you following: the European People's Party or the European Socialist Party? That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Constantinople, there is no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u125	First of all, Mr Minister, I am very pleased that you have said that you do not belong to the European Social Democracy. Tell the rest of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u126	What are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u127	It's important that everyone knows. The second, Mr. Contonis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u128	Did you now find out where SYRIZA belongs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Before giving the floor to the Minister of Justice for 15 minutes, I would like to make a statement to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u131	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u132	I request the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u133	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Theocharopoulos, please, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u135	Did I personally talk about Mr. Theocharopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u136	Let us not take the time away from the next speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u137	As a parliamentary representative for a minute I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u138	There's no staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u139	What personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u140	I want to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce No 12689/8221 of 6 October 2015 by the President of Parliament on the establishment of the Permanent Committees of Parliament and the establishment of their responsibilities. The relevant decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u141	The Minister for Justice now has the floor, Mr Paradoxopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a very brief introduction of seconds. Justice serves social peace. They do not come homeless to serve the institutions. Institutions arise so that there are no homeless people. Her tool has the law, the courts and the administration. And if its mission seems to be canceled somewhere, the corrective policy, which is burdening the government, is carried out through proposals of laws and by upgrading infrastructure. Under no circumstances does the rule of law allow interventions in individual cases. However, since it is the citizen of democracy who is involved in crisis and principle, as Aristotle says in the policies - a pity that Mr Zouraris has left - it will be our responsibility, on the one hand, to create conditions for deserved entry and growth in justice and to facilitate the social and scientific criticism of its functions, as well as to ensure the coherence of administration and society. With this in mind, the following programme has been drafted, and I am aware that, before democracy, the rule of law, harmonious social and economic relations and security, particularly by combating violence and corruption. However, I have already pointed out two major problems - already with the programme statements during the previous government - and these are the slowness in the administration of justice and the bad conditions in the country's prisons. With regard to speeding up the administration of justice, firstly, the time available for the legislative work of a variety of material during the previous governance, as it is understandable, was considerably less than seven months. Therefore, only surgical interventions to speed up proceedings in the courts have been made possible. I am thinking of speeding up bankruptcy law, ordering payment against the public and speeding up certain procedural acts before the Peace Courts. These legislative arrangements triggered, among other things, two chapters of the political process that were shaped as a prerequisite and not after a thorough and substantial dialogue with actors and officials. Therefore, a review of these funds will be sought as soon as possible within the framework of international commitments, of course. On the contrary, in time with compliance with the relevant timetables, the rest will proceed with the Memorandum of Understanding Innovations, which introduce reforms that are welcome to the Greek area, such as the New Banking Law and the arrangements for non-performing loans. Despite surgical interventions, however, the more general issue of the slowness of justice - I want to be clear on this point - is open. It is open because short and short-term solutions are rarely possible here. Basically, we need an intervention, which is long and multi-level, in legislation, in the administration of justice and justice. This systemic change is now at the stage of the organisation, since working groups and the legislative committees working on the new tools have been set up. The development of relevant legislative work will be based mainly on codifications in order to address the phenomenon of scattered, disgusting and difficult pluralism. A key and necessary aspect of proper and rapid justice, of course, is its service with a sufficient number of judges and judges, as well as to facilitate the contribution of other important legal officers, such as lawyers, notaries and judges. The Ministry of Justice will claim to strengthen these executives and branches. With regard to the specific legislative measures that will be promoted as soon as possible, I would mention the following: substantive and procedural arrangements to combat corruption - the Deputy Minister, Mr Papagelopoulos, will be more detailed here; arrangements for tax evasion; the facilitation of citizens' access to justice; the rationalisation of fees and offenders, in order to facilitate the impossible, the upgrading of the administration of courts; the reform of the organisational framework of the National Court of Justice; reforms in the functioning of administrative justice, such as the establishment of a system of compromise resolution of disputes; and reforms in the Code of Lawyers; always with the involvement of the relevant committees and other relevant bodies. The projects will certainly continue, which with European funding strengthen justice infrastructures, such as the electronic interconnection of its services. It should also be noted that the incorporation of a number of European directives is pending. In fact, there are fines for some of these penalties, due to delays. Finally, a new problem facing our country's judicial infrastructure needs to be mentioned. Only in recent years have the phenomenon of conducting trials with an excessive number of indictments, witnesses, politically-professional and defence lawyers, as well as with the demand for premises for journalists. Our country was not ready. It had no such large halls nor was it able to build young people in time in the conditions of the economic crisis. At the moment, however, there is an attempt to make arrangements and make arrangements, but there is still a need for the people to be patient. As far as the penitentiary system is concerned now. Justice is not avenged. It is just too much to say about the way in which violence is extinguished and humanity is cultivated. In this regard, as far as the things of the penitentiary system are concerned, the situation has now become more specific. Despite conflicts, in fact safety and humanity are guaranteed in addition rather than in competition. The shields against crime relapse after the release are: The training of the prisoner, his education, the maintenance of links with the family and then the care for his reintegration. The policy of decongestion of prisons now completed with the implementation of the n. 4322 was not just a legal request and an adaptation to the international human rights requirements and to the case-law of the European Court of Justice. I would remind you that our country has already paid fines of more than EUR 1 million for the conditions in prisons, and in the future, condemnations that are threatened will lead to multiples of financial penalties. It is clear, therefore, that decongestion has been the first step, the necessary but not sufficient treaty, so that now structures are developed to combat corruption and to incorporate reintegration, and they will also provide care for the most vulnerable groups of prisoners. I know, of course, that there are people and organised interests who, by listening away to these decongestion points, will rekindle their politics, their warfare, recycled what fearful and unscientificly they have been claiming for months. I will just repeat here that recent legislation has only innovated with regard to redundancies of special categories of detainees: the disabled, the elderly, the minors and the hosts - a special category - foreigners. Dismissals which have been soundly and falsely delivered lately in the last piece of legislation would have actually taken place and with the legislation previously in force. However, it is worth mentioning that CPT, the European Commission of the Council of Europe against torture, has made a critical public statement - public declaration - against our country on the conditions in its prisons. This is a pan-European stigmatisation. Such statements have only been made for Russia and Turkey, which not only stigmatize morally, but also taken into account by the case law of the European Court of Justice, which condemns and imposes fines. But the Commission itself, in April 2015, carried out a new inspection of our country's prisons - in our country with the bad register - and the sign becomes positive: not only does the public declaration repeat, but serious efforts are recognised for improvements. As far as the health care of the detainees is concerned, it is attempting to upgrade it, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health, thanks to the advancement that preceded it. In about a month, he will be ready to operate a rehab unit in the Passenger Prison, in my assessment, with excellence unique in the European area. I hope that it will be inaugurated in October. A major reform, which is also being promoted at a rapid pace, is as follows: Other information: (a) 4139/2013 anticipates an alternative way of rehab instead of common incarceration for charges of dependent detainees. It is well known that the integrated rehab prevents criminal relapse - and this is registered, it is investigated, it is a given - and, on the contrary, common imprisonment fails to do so. The development of the rehab system within - initially - and outside prisons has already begun. Relevant preparatory units for physical and psychological rehab are organised in twenty prisons of the country, while recognised organisations have reception structures for reintegration. This network will be completed soon. Three new second opportunity schools are also to be launched in the prisons: in Chania, in Domokos and in Nigrita. Finally, useful conclusions, capable of supporting this reconstruction policy, will also be drawn from the specific study of the operation of the prison, which is being carried out for the first time. As far as human rights are concerned, a number of issues of the rule of law and of equality will now be regulated, such as the new form of a social coexistence agreement with the recognition of homogeneity and heterogeneity, new guarantees of freedom of the press in order to guarantee citizens from the well-known phenomenon of yellowism, but on the other hand, the atrocities and abusive compensation which can act as informal censorship and anti-racist legislation, which does not currently cover the issue, the field of racist speech on the one hand and racist acts on the other. Other organisational interventions will concern the preparation of plans such as a national action plan on human rights, a national action plan on the rights of the child, corresponding to racism and intolerance, human rights education in formal education and vocational training of competent officials, and other measures to increase compliance with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in Greece. To sum up, during the first seven months of the year, some urgent corrective measures were made to the legislation. Now, it is now the right time to build, to create new structures that will serve justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u143	We thank the Minister in particular for keeping time. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u144	I will begin with what a SYRIZA MEP said earlier, that SYRIZA is changing the course of history. We're saying it's still the same story. He continues to manage the needs of big capital. He told us here about the various movements, the networks, he invoked democracy, direct democracy. But like the previous ones, you move on the road of authoritarianism against workers' struggles. The other day, Minister of Justice, you arrested the President and Secretary General of the Food Association in Chalkida at the suggestion of the employer, who does not pay the employees, refuses to pay them. And you arrested them because they supported the workers' struggles. Yesterday, Minister of Justice, the strike of workers at the press distribution agencies was declared illegal, with the claim of a four-day warning, which is not yet included in the trade union law. It seems that the overthrow of trade union law has begun, placing greater obstacles on the organization of workers' games. In the Ministry of Labour a few days ago, in the mobilization of the trade unions, we saw the MAT caves against the gathered workers. "Two-time left" looks like that. In the auctions, Minister of Justice, workers are last satisfied with their jobs, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure you voted on in the summer. The businessmen, that is, they're going for a walk. It is also the'sensitivity' of the 'first time' left. The Armageddon of the measures included in the SYRIZA's third and most painful memorandum are also confirmed by the Programmatic Declarations, despite the attempt to present covertly. They are also confirmed by the draft budget already submitted. The equivalents, the parallel programme were put forward for election once again to deceive the people. The implementation of measures with sensitivity by the SYRIZA Government is the joke already being discussed in the workplace. It will be paid dearly by the people if it is not organized, if it does not fit into the path of overthrowing the barbaric system, which you too serve, if it does not claim the wealth it produces, if it does not stop choosing the smallest evil, which always leads to the greatest. The wages, pensions and what the working class has won with hard struggles are sacrificed to support monopolistic groups, major business interests. The parties and governments that form and support the capitalist development path are similar, converging in their policies, in the measures they take, precisely because they implement the same strategy. In these years of the deep crisis, managers have changed their power. When right, when right centre, when left. But the people in their daily lives see being the victim of their choices. The capitalist crisis has been loaded on the backs of the populace, with deep twists in their lives. Poverty is the result of the policies that have been implemented. They all went ahead, supported the restructuring or reforms decided by the European Union, because they are seen as a one-way path to boost competitiveness, the profitability of capital. They are considered a one-way to create a friendly environment for investment. A friendly environment for capital is shaped by reversals in industrial relations, the abolition of fixed work, flexible labour relations, flexicurity, the abolition of collective agreements and the domination of individual contracts. These are the best practices applied in the European Union, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government claims and wishes to implement. Policies and practices, Mr Athanasios, which lead to an increase in the degree of exploitation, a further reduction in the price of the labour force, in order to restore the phase of new productive recovery and increase the profitability of the large groups. A friendly environment for capital is the overthrows of the social security system decided by the European Union with the well-known White Paper. The sovereignty of private insurance systems and the further reduction of public pension schemes, which will in any case be similar to private pension schemes, is one of the European Union's declared objectives, as described in the White Paper on Pensions and bear the misleading title 'Agenda for adequate and sustainable pensions'. The sustainability and adequacy of pension systems depends on the extent to which contributions, taxes and savings are supported by people on the labour market, says the White Paper. The insurance, pensions and pensions are converted into an individual case. Insurance, of course, does not only mean pension. It means health protection, both for working life and afterwards. They are welfare benefits, maternity protection, protection against occupational risks. Continuing reinsurance laws, particularly those in recent years, have drastically affected pensions, insurance and health, care and protection against accidents at work. The reversals to all social security rights were, in any case, a process and time-consuming desire of governments and capital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. These are now being implemented, with a view to ending the social security system. The pensions with which, as you know, unemployment and high wages have been affected have, in this period of unemployment and a large reduction in wages, increased the total family income. In the name of the viability of the insurance company, all these measures are promoted, which will form tragic conditions. The working class has to stop them. Social security, as we believe, must guarantee workers decent pensions and human treatment, such as to meet the current needs of the pensioner and the worker. All workers and unemployed should be insured. The JRC calls on the workers, the self-employed, the poor farm to reject the government's measures, to claim the replacement of the losses, for which no other party speaks, to claim rights and pensions covering modern needs. We support with all our forces and call the popular strata in mass, universal participation in the rallys on October 22nd throughout Greece. The only way that can lead the majority of our people to a philosophical way out is by changing order to power with the new form of organization of the economy, where workers are going to do it. The wealth produced will meet the modern needs of the people and will be the main objective of central planning. On this road social security will have a perceptible position, providing security throughout the family, in all aspects of their lives, in decent pensions, in health, in welfare, in the special care of children, women, women, the disabled, in health and safety at work. No waiting. Now we need to organize the struggle, universal participation in the path of overthrowing, rejection of the measures, claiming the losses, the modern needs of our people. The JRC will give all the powers in this direction. Of course, we are voting against the Programmatic Declarations and we will be on the way to fighting for what belongs to the people, to the working class.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u145	Mr Arachovitis has the floor to see if, apart from Laccus, he will also be laconic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras pointed out in his opening speech yesterday on the SYRIZA - ANEL Government's programming statements, as shown by the elections of 20 September, it is the government that will take the country out of the crisis at the end of the four-year period. This is because the government sets specific targets in the medium and long term, and has the plan and vision to achieve them. It is in the mood for hard work and deep knowledge of the issues that are accomplishing society and the economy. But it has another basic advantage. It has clean hands, without dependants, which allows it to conflict with interests, but on the other hand causes the communication war against it. The fact is that farmers are taxed. A huge cloud of disinformation and terrorism is spreading, reminiscent of methods of other times. But the reality is: according to n. 4172/2013, there was provision for the taxation of farmers from the first euro for all agricultural incomes, subsidies, and even compensation. In other words, if a farmer were to suffer a disaster in his production and received compensation from the ELGA for the loss of his income, this compensation would be taxed at 13% of the first euro. The same was true of subsidies from the first euro, according to the n. 4172/2013. With the n. 4328 passed by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in May 2015, the compensation and subsidies of up to EUR 12,000 for the incomes of 2014 and 2015, i.e. the tax declarations submitted by farmers in 2015, this year, and those they will deposit in 2016. Therefore, farmers have saved significant taxation for this year and 2016. That's the only thing that's true. For those, of course, who have the slightest doubt, I am tabling the relevant circular, the POL 1116/10-6-2015 of the Ministry of Finance, the General Secretariat of Public Incomes, with the signature of Mrs Savvaidou, which explains in detail what was the case and what was the case. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] It is also true that the great scandal of the Agricultural Bank is now in the prosecutor's court and is being investigated. The Agricultural Bank, the bank which financed agricultural production, has been mortgaged on most of the farmed areas, became a landfill and was eventually granted to Piraeus Bank. Also, the reality is the rescue of the Greek Sugar Industry, along with the income of thousands of farmers in Northern Greece. Now, with regard to what the agreement stipulates with the partners, it has been agreed to separate farmers' main occupations. But that's a constant request from the real farmers! The separation of the real farmers contributes to giving the necessary incentives to those living from primary production, in order to continue to produce, to remain on their land and to redefine the role of modern Greek farmers and Greek agriculture. The main financial instrument is the EUR 20 billion, as the Prime Minister announced yesterday, that is 100% of Community funds, the new CAP money, which will be used in the above direction as follows: Firstly, supporting the income of the Greek producer. Particular attention will be paid to the incomes of those active in mountain, disadvantaged and island regions. Secondly, by taking forward the measures which will help to strengthen the liquidity and income of rural households. Thirdly, with the aim of setting up advisory structures for the scientific and technical support of producers to cover the great gap that has been observed, particularly in the Greek region, in agricultural applications. Fourthly, with a view to improving the quality, diversification, added value, export and ecological footprint of agri-food products. In the past, money from European resources has been wasted on the market of overpriced agricultural equipment, with no significant effect on the efficiency of agricultural production and the protection of the environment, but has, on the contrary, led to the producer's financial burden. With regard to the extremely burning issue of farmers' taxation now, on the incomes that will be gained from 2016, every effort will be made to protect small and medium-sized producers and the main business farmers. This will be done through maintaining the tax on subsidies for most of the small and medium-sized farmers, while maintaining the full tax on ELGA's allowances, by recognising the missing to date expenditure on family labour actually offered by the members of the farmer's family. Finally, we are trying to form a truly fair insurance system for the farmer and his family. Ladies and gentlemen, previous agricultural policy policies have failed miserably. Greek farmers are owed money both by ELGA and OPEKEPE in 2011, even before. Fines coming from known packages exceed EUR 3 billion. Primary production contracted to 3% of GDP. So the current government has received this situation. However, because we have different logics, we will use every potential to reverse this environment for both the Greek farmer and the Greek economy and we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u147	Lacquer! Mrs. Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made it quite clear from the outset that I am not going to give a vote of confidence to the second Government of Tsipras - Kammenos. Of course, I heard the Prime Minister's schedule statements last night. I have heard them with an open mind, as my institutional role as a Member of the Officership. I put aside for a period of time and my ideological and paradoxical payouts. I also put aside the recent experience we had with the first government of Tsipras - Kammenos. My central comment is that the Prime Minister of the country refuses, not only to address the harsh reality that Greeks and Greek women are currently facing, he refuses even to refer to it. At the same time as Mr Tsipras spoke to us, the reality was reflected in the draft budget submitted. A preliminary draft which, unfortunately, as last year, no longer provides for 2.9% growth. On the contrary, it provides for a recession of 2.3% this year and for 2016 a recession of 1.3%. It provides for unemployment for the year 25.4% and 25.8%. It provides for a primary deficit. There is a lack of revenue. It provides for a reduction in Greek income. It provides for an increase in debt. And of course, it provides EUR 4.3 billion for measures consisting of taxes, taxes, taxes, taxes and cuts in main and ancillary pensions. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greeks will live in the coming years. If Mr Tsipras ignored her for an hour and a half, this reality is due to the seventeen hours he was negotiating hard with the lenders himself. Preparing for my speech today, I confess to having taken a look at my speech at the beginning of the year for the Government Tsipras - Kammenos. I found an excerpt that I could've gotten this kind of work today. It is the part that compared Mr Tsipras' election commitments to the programme statements. At first it was the program of Thessaloniki. Now it's SYRIZA's parallel program. It's obvious that both of these have gone on a walk. In addition to decoupling with reality, we also have the disconnection between the election commitments and the Programmatic Declarations. Of course, we have no specific commitment from the Prime Minister who touches the lives of the Greeks. Perhaps as an exception to the Prime Minister's references to 23% VAT on private education. It is a matter that we all understand that it burns the Greeks right now, because it touches thousands of Greek families. No rich families. Average families. This is a measure, therefore, proposed by Mr Tsipras, which Mr Tsipras has brought, in an election promise that he will abolish it. He said yesterday that he would abolish it to such an extent that, when he referred to this measure by this Step, the Members of Mr Tsipras, who heard he was suspended, began to applaud. But then we found out he was suspended for a month. And why is he suspended? It's suspended because the parallel program that went on a walk wasn't and it's not even specific. So it has not been found to be equivalent to that. Mr Tsipras shows here my fellow Members at the Civic Opposition and says: 'You also propose something'. But we have proposed a specific equivalent. Mr Stavros has proposed it. If the Prime Minister doesn't like this, he'll tell us he doesn't like it and propose another. But I have to warn that we are looking for equivalents, but there are no more incomes. And that's a central problem. Since we have heard nothing of it, then, we have heard the account of Mr Tsipras for his administration. One account that says: 'Quickly - quickly to vote on all the prerequisites. Quickly pass the first evaluation and then wipe them under the carpet." Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It can't be, because we're gonna live it. Then the big debate on the debt issue will be opened. We all want there to be a debt settlement. The debt that - to clarify - the New Democracy and the previous Antonis Samara government said it is contingent. But now, after the seven months "first time left with Kammenos" it is no longer viable. Of course, don't expect, ladies and gentlemen, that the debt will be cancelled. This has also gone for a walk along with Thessaloniki program and the parallel program. Oh, no. The debt will be settled. Yes, sir. Let's see if the negotiation Mr. Tsipras will make on this issue this time will have better results than the previous one. And of course, apart from the recapitalisation of the banks, which were already recapitalised, which now want recapitalisation, because we had the capital controls, no mention of when the capital controls are going to be gone, which choking entrepreneurship and the real economy. That's what we left on. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is a great difference between the two programming declarations of the same government. The difference is: there is no time now. We don't have time to baptize the fish or to banish the troika and to come the institutions or play hiccups in hotels, watch up-and-a-baskets, watch reality show inside the House. There's no time for this stuff anymore. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be right back, Mr. President. The country took its last chance, and if I concluded something from the Programming Declarations, it is that Mr. Tsipras has not understood that. He asked for a second chance from the Greek people and the Greek people gave it to him, simplely, I add. I am a Member of the Officerial Representation, obviously, respecting the second opportunity they gave him, but because I understand that this is the last opportunity for the country and because on this last occasion I also gave it to the country, voting for an agreement - not its content - to have this last opportunity, I would like to close up by making it clear that I, as a Member of the Officerial Representation, am not going to give Mr Tsipras another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Danellis has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President, and ironhead. Ladies and gentlemen, as if it did not spend a day of its first-time 'left' programme eight months ago. Like living a deja vu. But nothing is the same after Mr. Tsipra's Kastelorizo. The first government of SYRIZA - ANEL, as life proved, came early, came without a plan and program, without knowledge and perception of reality, with insufficient civilian personnel, but with an excess of arrogance and complacency. Everything today is harder and more demanding. Seven months, without the government even ruling, the first time left added more than 30 billion debt to the hump of the Greek people, an additional self-crisis - that of the banking system - incalculable cost in the real economy because of the closure of banks and capital controls, as well as a third memorandum that, despite the extremely costly efforts of the Samara Government after the euro elections, could have been avoided. "You called me to repair me, but you broke me off," said Dinos Christian. But there is also a substantial, qualitative, differentiation of the landscape: the defeat of the antimony. The propaganda of anti-immemorial ethnicism with the incalculable damage it has caused to society and the economy has collapsed. No more 'German gals', 'Quinsling', the inner troika on the one hand and the unscrupulous patriots on the other. The great majority of the Greek people now realises, clearly, that the only way to find the country in European regularity and international markets, to gain its lost credibility and dignity, is that of the other countries that were in the adventure of support programmes and memoranda. In other words, ensuring the consensus and consensus of the political forces on the implementation of the loan agreement signed and promoting reforms to remove from the real reasons for the crisis, the bankruptcy, which in turn has brought the memorandums. And for anyone who still refuses to understand it, progressive and left today, in Greece of bankruptcy, it is what is needed for a sustainable productive model that will produce national wealth and solid jobs. What is needed to create a friendly climate for healthy entrepreneurship, to support creative Greece. Philolic policy today, more than ever, is the major areas, the structural reforms, for which there has never been a will from anyone until now. Reforms and divisions, however, mean break with artisans and interest and influence groups, with client structures and political conscientiousness. But it means, at the same time, social justice, equality, alleviation and protection of the weak, deserved, respect for legality and the rules. The ambiguity you are now holding, ladies and gentlemen of the government, between the implementation and denouncement of the memorandum signed by the Prime Minister, does not foresee anything hopeful. Yesterday's and yesterday's messages about the delay in implementing our pre-requisites for decommitment of the funds needed to recapitalise banks and repay our obligations to the ECB next December, conserve uncertainty and precariousness. As far as we on the Potami are concerned, we were committed to implementing another model of opposition, far from the time-limit of the white - black, of 'no to everything', of the sterile and destructive model that SYRIZA applied as an opposition. We exercised creative opposition, taking responsibilities that did not account for us. You offered us so many opportunities that it would be like stealing a spike, if we were to demagogically use it. We have completely denied populism. We were not tempted by the easy way of the callippi friend of the people you kept for yourself by many of you - most of you are not in the Chamber today - friends of SYRIZA with the known results. The truthfulness, stability, soundness, the right reason, has not been appreciated by you and has not been evaluated by the majority of the Greek people. And the Greek people are entitled to make a mistake, as boldly and wisely once said, the late Babis Drakopoulos, Secretary of the Central Bank of Greece, in particular, in the confusion, anger, insecurity, maintenance of the infinite hope. But not only did you not appreciate our attitude at the tragic times that Mr Tsipras realised that he was expecting us of civil responsibility, whose historical responsibility he would have, but he would have, but he would have, as a turnout, hypocritically and unreasonably, rid of us, Potami, the painful agreement that you signed after your disastrous non-negotiations, which you had entrusted to that unreported press, which he today blames you for a reduced charge, Prime Minister, at the time of your critical decisions, and you must reply to him. And yesterday you insisted in an immoral and unequivocal manner on these responsibilities. We told you that we would support the agreement that the country's Prime Minister responsible will bring. We said: 'The sooner, the better and the better.' We did not engage in the negotiation or have been informed of it. And when government and other opposition competed in the ridiculousness of the red lines, we insisted on how one is the red line, not to jeopardise the country's stay in the euro area, namely the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. I will close, ladies and gentlemen, just as eight months ago, from the same Step, with the corresponding speech, I had closed my speech. Do not forget that tax discipline is the best friend of the welfare state. Dare the conflict with all kinds of interests, from the rodents of public procurement and public works, to the squabbles of the public good of television frequencies. But, in a way of direct and transparent, not pollen to maintain hostage conditions. And we, the river, will be there with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u151	Mr Polakis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people voted on 20 September gave their answer. Despite his bitterness, despite his anger, he took us into his back and, in his vote, imposed the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, that is, government without conservatively conserving modernistic and intertwined minions, as the whole system strives to impose. He trusted us again, he recognized the struggle we've had in the past seven months, understood that we've made a settlement, that we didn't have a chaos, he recognized that we lost a battle, but we didn't lose the war, and he recognized our moral advantage, that only we can hit corruption and conflict. Now it's over. Now we have to rule, not just negotiate. We must now make decisions that are effective and rapid and not just think or talk. The mandate given by the Greek people on 20 September is clear: Reduce the debt in order to breathe the place and generations that come. Change the state of bureaucracy and the diffusion of the paradox. Punish, fight, and get the money back from corruption and stride. Find equivalent, so as to ease the extreme measures the agreement has in it. Start the productive reconstruction in primary production, tourism, energy, innovation, to start coming back the minds that go away and set on their feet again the social state, health and education. That said to us, and that is what we will do, meticulously and with a dream, representing the low and middle layers, which have brought us to government power, for the generations that come, believing that we will manage and change in a concrete way and in a visible time horizon people's lives. In the health field, Andreas Xanthos, and to me, the Prime Minister has done the honor of giving us the portfolio so that we can do a series of things. The public health area has two pillars. It has the pillar of the National Health System, with hospitals, PEDYs, health centers, EKAV and the directly supervised by the Ministry of Health, i.e. mental health centres and Okana, which currently have a total budget of approximately EUR 4.5 billion. There is also the Primary Care Service, the EEAY, that is to say the combination of the previous insurance funds, which covers contracts with private clinics, rehabilitation centres, doctors, pharmacies and has a budget of approximately 5.5 billion euros. In other words, about EUR 10 billion is public money, spent every year on health and care. Six years ago this amount was about EUR 16-17 billion. All 18 billion euros have arrived. What our predecessors have done on the basis of the Memorandum Orders - and I am talking about Mr Loverdos, Mr Vorides, Mr Georgiadis - was a horizontal cut, down to the measures imposed on them by the Memorandum Agreements, transferring a great deal of weight to the Greek people, who pays increased contributions due to the reduced cover they have. However, they have not touched a single hair from all over the system of interoperable and corruption, which even continues to play in this area today. At the moment we have received and received a system which is very functionally insecure and at risk of 'black out'. The ban on appointments for many years, the stop of trading the supply chain for bureaucratic reasons, but also for reasons of inability or the fact that it does not find it in the mist of this entire circuit, creates a risk of permanent 'black out'. So our first task is to stabilise the system. What have we done since the day we took over? Firstly, we increased the spending limit by EUR 150 million, in consultation with the Ministry of National Economy, so that it could continue to supply the system with the necessary materials, medicines and reagents, because otherwise the codes described in the budget were exhausted and there would be a very great risk of the system being collapsed immediately. This has already been done and announced. It will be kept for the next few years. In our view, there must be - and there will be - a debate on the Governing Council on Social Policy in order to increase this amount. This is what is needed in the way the whole supply system is currently organised. I'll tell a lot of details below. Secondly, to get things in place, the system is now in need of direct and mass blood donation by staff. There cannot be a system that is old, and people are retired, as well as those in the pension system that had been banned. He needs staff - that is a real need - to be able to work. What have we done this week and what are we going to do next? Firstly, we are completing the procedures for the appointment of permanent doctors from earlier notices. Through a disguised bureaucracy of the Greek state, it does four, five, six or even eight months, so that the doctor will finally go to his place, and the crisis is over. Secondly, nine hundred and ninety people are being proclaimed as nursing and paramedical and other staff specialties, pharmacists, manufacturers, etc., by a notice that has also been delayed due to the well-known bureaucracy, which will meet the immediate and vital needs of the system. We also believe - and it is a bet for us, but we will be able to do so again by the AACC at the end of the year two thousand four hundred positions, in which they are six hundred doctors who will also meet the immediate and pressing needs of the system. Nowadays, the intake of five hundred subsidiary doctors, other than those who are already serving, is being completed - through the change in the previous legislative framework - in the coming months, in order to provide departments and clinics that are closing or ready to close or malfunction seriously. We will also resolve by legislative and political decision the issue of end-of-term subsidiary doctors appointed in previous years and who complete two years of service in the system many of them. And there will be a political solution to this issue before 31-12-2015, and this also concerns subsidiary nursing staff, who serves in these positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u153	Expansion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u154	I would also like to say that the liquidity problem in the system over the next period will not exist, because while from 1 January to 30 September, because of the size of the financial suffocation, it was only EUR 300 million - I am talking about the first pillar - the EHS, at the moment in September was given 150 million, in October 250 million, and by December it will have been allocated EUR 1 billion which is included in the budget. There are also movements to the EEA in order to give the system what it owes, in relation to the hospitals, the integrated ones paid by the EEAS to the hospital. Of course, there is a clear government commitment to start closing old sins and wounds with the coming of the dose. A large proportion of the government’s dues are debts created in the National Health System and there is a commitment to payment within a period of 1,200,000,000 in the first phase. From there on the National System has to be run, so we will proceed to a visible time horizon: Firstly, the assessment of existing administrations which, in the vast majority of them - in our opinion - did not fulfil their duty. The members of the administrative boards will be appointed directly and with the recommendation of the Evaluation Committee, which has already been and is finalised within the next week, an open call will be made to cover the positions of the Governor and the Vice-President in hospitals, to which the administrations will be negatively assessed. By the end of December we must be done with this story, with this sarcotyranny. Fourth issue of the system, which is also a direct issue, not tomorrow morning, but relatively close, is the following: there must be a huge amount of organisational restructuring of the system. It is a pluralist, steadfast bureaucracy, and within the context of the general political choice made by the government - and the Ministry of Administrative Reform is preparing a great institutional section - that responsibilities will be transferred to the decentralised structures of the system, and I mean to the U.S. and to hospitals. Why does the mutual movement between two hospitals in the same health region have to collect a number of thirty signatures, beyond the health region, which should be responsible for doing so? Why should the appointments of the qualified persons be carried out by the Ministry of Health and not by hospitals serving? Why should the appointments of subsidiary doctors draw up three hundred signatures from below to above? Why do people who have the right and qualifications to become, have to be nursed in such stacks at the Ministry of Administrative Reform for a simple transfer of credit? All this will come down. That's not small. Changes the way hospitals operate, facilitates people's lives, speeds up huge times, which are created in gaps and cover either by nursing staff or medical staff who have evolved to empty a post, is the other ready but takes three months to be appointed, because he has to collect three hundred signatures. These will be resolved in the immediate time horizon. We're going seriously - not that's it. The great institutional revolution that we commit to doing is about the entire circuit involving the supplies of hospitals, the support services of hospitals and, in general, the entire supply chain. I said before that they didn't touch it. We will not just touch it, but we will change it completely, and when we leave this post, because we are passive from these positions, we have to have one thing left, which is a castle that markets and complexism cannot manage, as has been done so far and in practice controls it in full. I'm going to give you a few examples. I'm sorry, but I'm gonna need some time. It's the main thing in the speech, and I'm gonna need some time. I'm sorry. It is not possible, even today, for health grafts, valves which - in fact - in European countries make EUR 800 and EUR 900, to pay - even today - EUR 5 000 and EUR 6 000. Of course, a few years ago, we paid 12,000 and 13,000 euros and 40,000 euros. It is not possible, while the NSAV has the best car workshop currently in existence in Greece, Thessaloniki, for example, to pay for the seven hundred ambulances that have 6,500 euros a year for the service ambulance and spare parts. Nor 'Lamborghini', i.e. even 'Bentley', could have done that. It is not possible for many hospitals to pay for feeding three times or four times the amount they pay for corresponding services in five-fifth hotels, and of course the quality is not the same. It is not possible for the EEA with its Agency to reduce from 3 million to 2 million the cost for the exclusive nurses, cutting off work from low-popular people, and at the same time to pay for the injuries and floods of 54 million in 2015 when in 2012 they were 12 million, as if they increased the injuries, wounds and diabetics in this country. It is not possible for colostrum bags three years ago to pay 18 million and now to pay 54 million. That is, a hundred thousand people in the country want colostomy, we've broken all the epidemiological standards that exist! It is not possible that the expenditure on glasses of 40 million has become 47. We're talking about millions now, we're not talking about a barn. It is not possible that the peritoneal filtration of 3 million in 2012 has gone to 28 million in 2014, without a reduction in classical cleansings made by the classic method and there are also people who are now going around - around and with the refugee current or with the uninsured ones and do every day dialysis in a different hospital. Well, three steps. Firstly, there will be full recording and codification of all materials and reagents used in the supply of the public hospital. There's a serious work of the 7th IP from Nikos Igoumenides. That's where we're going to step. If you are currently requesting a list of what hospitals use is not available. We will use this list as the basis and a work done by the Committee on Health Procurement for reagents that will be buttoned and say 'they'. And then there's a big job, the second step, where all the work is. They'll describe detailed technical and quality specifications for each category of materials we're talking about, so that anyone who doesn't have them can't enter, to ensure quality in the material. Because it is not just the feather, but it is also the quality of the material to meet the needs of the sick. After these two steps are taken, the third, which is the most important, will be the formation, setting a range of prices for each product category.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Polakis, the Minister's time is over already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u156	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u157	From now on we're going for Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u158	I'm sorry, Mr. President. To finish what I'm saying. The price range will be plus - except for 10% of the price it has in 50% of the countries of the European Union. This, when it is done, will be a huge savings for the system. That's the way the competitions are going to be. Competitions outside these limits cannot be accepted. This breaks down the backbone of health-related interaction, saves revenues that will fall back into the health system to strengthen infrastructural and staff and further than so far. This, in my opinion, will be the great institutional revolution that we want to leave behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Minister. You will be given another chance in the future, it is not just the programming statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u160	Yes, Mr. President, I'm closing. From there on, I wanted to say a number of things about the EEA in relation to its operational reorganisation, with the renegotiation of contracts in private clinics and all health providers, in line with the needs of patients. We will open up the system of contracts, strengthen the ETAs, give a second chance to doctors who have been driven out of the system with a visible time horizon to choose the employment relationship. We will move on to the EKRD, which is now ending, with the appointment of eighty-eight people, who will immediately strengthen the system that they need, and we will complete half the competition for ninety ambulances.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u161	To conclude the speech, however, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u162	I conclude by saying that we are all judged, not by what we are saying, but by what we are doing. We do not owe, fly with loan or foreign wings throughout our lives, and I and Andreas represent the fighting hospital doctors and honest private doctors, which is why we will be able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is no family that does not have at least one unemployed. The only way to create new jobs, to get the country ahead of us, to get out of the memoranda, to have growth, is to motivate investment, particularly in the private sector and in extrovert, that is to say, free professionals, farmers, micro-enterprises and those who are interested in investing in Greece. Unfortunately, at the moment the government is doing the opposite. It is a common confession that things on the market were better in November 2014 than they are today and if there is someone in the government who has worked on the market, I am sure he understands that. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] I watched with great interest the last visit of the Prime Minister to the United States, where he was trying to convince entrepreneurs to come to invest in Greece. The Prime Minister didn't make anything. And how could he do it when he and the SYRIZA governments - ANEL not only attract investment, but did everything they could to get rid of them? I would remind you of the reasons. Political instability: within nine months we had two elections and a referendum. Capital Restriction, the great capital controls created problems even in healthy businesses, which could not pay employees, suppliers and other needs. It increased VAT to 23%, increased employers' contributions, reduced pensions, both main and subsidiary, dramatically reduced the available income of Greek citizens, i.e. their purchasing power, imposes a 100% tax advance, restored the recession with the policy of creative ambiguity. I would remind you that we had forecasts for growth of 2.5%, and now we are going to a recession of about 1.5%. This translates into thousands of lost jobs. He wiped out the reserves of the municipalities, regions, and even the insurance funds, such as the ELGA. It increased government debts. In other words, even healthy businesses are at risk and there is no liquidity in the market. The Public Investment Programme has been reduced, almost all major projects have been frozen. The ESDP has been blocked, where Community funds are lost, and we are at risk of fines. In view of the above, it is a result of the policy of Tsipras - Kammenos, it is not the chronic diseases that Greece faces. Ladies and gentlemen, on the US Prime Minister's trip to a public forum with investors, Mr Clinton asked the Prime Minister about the conditions faced by investors in Greece. Mr. Tsipras smiled awkwardly and did not even give a formal answer. Do you know why? Because he has never been involved in this matter, nor has his staff. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the next time you call investors to come to Greece, you may have to start with the very basics. Let me be clearer. You need to decriminate entrepreneurship and profit to SYRIZA. Investors won't come to Greece because you charmed them. Investors will come only if there is a business opportunity for profit. Secondly, you must be in line with the word 'competitiveness'. She's the one that's going to boost production and lead to growth. But even when Mr. Clinton turns the best assailant to Mr. Tsipras to talk about the country's competitive advantages, he sends the ball hopelessly out on the platform. Thirdly, the banks must be recapitalised immediately. It does not mean healthy entrepreneurship without banks. Fourthly, in dealing with the waste of the state, the World Economic Forum ranks Greece at a hundred and twenty - eight out of a hundred forty countries. I repeat, in position a hundred and twenty-eight! However, you still think there is room for growth and you are re-entering public vows. Who are we talking about? We are talking about people who have proved to be embezzled or abused public money, people who do not step on their jobs. Even in primary and secondary education there are cases of teachers who had harassed pupils. And what are you doing? You're reintroducing them. Do you want an equivalent measure instead of increasing taxation everywhere? It's very simple to remove from the public any jury officials you've reinstated. Demilitarizations. You must proceed directly to what you have undertaken to do. A characteristic example is the privatization of regional airports. Outside the markets. If you really want to smash the memoirs, you must finally understand that the only way to do this is by regaining the confidence of the markets. Unfortunately, even today you have not presented an exit plan on the markets. For all this, however, serious reforms are needed. If you bring changes that, instead of improving, damage the country's productive tissue, you have no doubt that we will vote against you. Ladies and gentlemen, after nine months of failed government choices, we are going to pay very increased bills due to Mr Tsipras's policy of creativity. You have neither a programme nor a vision of the country's exit from the crisis and the creation of growth. That is why I do not vote for the vote of confidence in this government, but I hope you will do well for the good of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u165	Thank you. Mr Igoumenides Nikolaos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to some aspects of the public health system, based on my experience in both the narrow occupational - twenty-five years I have been employed in a public hospital - and the recent one, as I have been the Governor of the 7th Health Region of Crete before my election. We are talking about the public health system, the system of the poor and the weak, the system that ensures and must ensure equal, universal, high-level, low-cost and socially-controlled access to health services. The public health system, therefore, can and must do its part even more effectively, even more fully, as one of the tops - in my opinion, the main one - of the humanitarian crisis political response. What are the fixed axes on which we are stepping on, on the basis of which we are walking? Firstly, we are deciding on the basis of the scientific documentation and support provided by the health map, free, away from any routine micro-group options. Secondly, in conditions of health poverty, despite the reduction in health expenditure - the Minister's reports were characteristic - no health structures should be closed and no public health structures are closed. Any changes from the creation of new units to the movement of existing units simply follow the corresponding population movements to the health coverage we are talking about. Thirdly, in conditions of budgetary stability, our proposals, the changes that we will decide on, our decisions as a whole, must ensure the best possible use of human resources, both of the existing one - and I am referring here to his order - and of the incurring one, and I am referring here to the design of the new recruitments. They must also ensure the best possible management of existing financial resources, as well as the best possible savings for new resources. This part is integral, regardless of whether and how we want it, with the sustainability of the public health system. Ladies and gentlemen, the foundation of the public health system is primary health care and public health both in the countryside and in the urban fabric of our country. Despite the exceptions - and there are several such bright exceptions - the rule is one. Despite the existence of staff, which in some cases is prevalent in the countryside, primary health care has been degenerated mainly by mere prescribing. In the urban fabric of our country, primary care is essentially absent. Let's get the countryside. We are relying on regional doctors, health centers in these hospitals and multi-powered regional doctors. They are new units, essentially with a richer staffing than a regional office, which practically follows the population's movements, particularly in the areas where the world, by moving it, is removed from the seat of the existing health centre. From the information we have in the Heraklion Prefecture, where we have gone a little further along with the health map, together with the health centres we are planning - and we have come to such a debate, consultation and cooperation with the local government - we have in each municipality and a six-hour centre - two eight hours of operation. We also have a network of EKAV stations which come to assist within a comprehensive design the existing forces in health centres and in hospitals, so as to facilitate urgent access - where necessary - of the population to the public health system. Let me turn to this point for a moment on the subject of multi-powered regional doctorates. They started, as I just said, with a different staffing, with an eight-hour hours. We have this kind of medicine in Tympaki, in Messara. It is a population-moved area that offers considerable benefits to the country's economy, an primary sector. This medicine we think of - will work within 2015 - to be sixteen hours of operation. At the same time, the Sfakion doctorate, because of the bad road network, which makes the distance from the centre even greater and because it is in the area of barren Gadus - Samaria, areas that are recently becoming also gateways of entry of refugees, recommend pilots first to operate as a on-call centre. Primary care in urban centres - emblematically described in our Prime Minister's speech as the intervention for these - with the hospitals of the neighborhood and their reference units, we are ready to move it to the Municipality of Gazios. What does "we're ready" mean? Staff hiring is under way. There's enough of the new staff. We have solved, in cooperation with local government, the overall design and building problem of doctors and also, in cooperation with the university, the training of staff in their new role. That is how we prepare ourselves. There are many open issues for both primary health care and hospital care, which have not removed the risk of its functioning collapse, for the medicine, for the formation of the OPOs, for the financing of the public health system, for the whole private health system that works alongside the public, without meeting these two, resulting in the waste of forces, the waste of resources and ultimately the economic bleeding of our people. I believe that the bills which will come after the discussion of the Programmatic Declarations will enable us to have a more comprehensive debate and also to make specific decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that I see our efforts to stabilise the public health system integrated into our efforts to stabilise the Greek economy, stabilise the Greek society and ultimately our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Igoumenides, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u168	Regardless of how many political people are joining us, I believe that on the basis of the expressed consent of our people and despite all the difficulties our efforts will ultimately be successful, it will be victorious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. Mr. Gabroglou Constantine from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u170	Since we're on our way, Mr. President. How can two Syrians talk all the time? Mr President, we have said to change the parties. Two speakers from the same party cannot speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u171	Look, there was a series based on each party's statement, if you like, MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Voutiss proposed this, which is why I am saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u173	The MPs change among themselves. So they happened to coincide. That is not the responsibility of the Bureau. Now, what can I tell you? Mr. Gabroglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak exclusively on education issues and in particular on issues relating to universities and TEIs in our country. It starts a new academic year in universities in a full of frustration, but also administrative paralysis. Unfortunately, it is not only the tragic finances of the universities, but also the situation they have come to because of the laws that have passed before governments and especially the laws that are known as Diamantopoulou and Arvanitopoulos. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, we will proceed to legislation. And, by moving to legislation, we will discuss in detail everything that has already been tabled. The Minister for Education, Mr. Friends and Mrs. Anagnostopoulos will speak about them in detail, but I would like to stress that any arrangements and our interventions will be based on three principles: firstly, that the model of the university, which has actually been shaped since the early 1980s, has been historically shut down, has lost its potential, and so we are going to form a new kind of university. Secondly, these arrangements will mark the major changes that we are going to bring, and thirdly, all of this must be done with the greatest possible consensus, so that it begins to change the climate of indifference that exists in universities today. But the great challenge for the government and the left in general is not just technical issues. It's to take those initiatives too to change attitudes. I will give you an example - it may seem extreme, but it is a very real example - which each family lives in our country: an entire society has set hopes for the future of its children, not in schools, but in misery. Instead of all struggling to upgrade our schools, it has been slowly canceled in its own high school. Knowledge has been worked out, school has been trained, and then we all wonder why students and students are bored in school. The problem is extremely complex. We obviously need legislation, but above all we need a change of attitude in society and, above all, in our parents, in order to start trusting our teachers, teachers and schools. These and similar topics should be the issues that will be discussed in the national dialogue on education, which the Minister for Education, Mr Friends, has already announced, not only in order to arrive at technical regulations, but in order to be able to take those initiatives that will slowly and in an extremely difficult way change attitudes. I would like to end with three points. One of the most important institutions in our country is the Greek Open University. It is a university that enables our citizens to obtain a degree because they have not been able to obtain a degree from the universities for thousands of reasons. It is an institution that trains a lot of people, is an institution that needs to be upgraded and is an institution that should increase its academic staff, mainly by young scientists and not already serving university teachers. The Hellenic Open University is a way to open up to society, it is a way to show our social face, but it is also an institution that hides a huge dynamic. In this sense, I think we should also explore the possibility of abolishing the draw that is currently being used to enrol students to become a truly open university. The second issue of the three which I would like to raise is the question of young scientists, who are trying in every way to survive in very difficult conditions, and we need to take very specific measures to see how to deal with this problem. The last issue is about an expression of gratitude from this Step, as far as we are concerned, an expression of gratitude to the teachers, teachers and academics who keep our education alive. To salute the teachers and teachers from Evros and Samothraki to the mountain villages of Crete, which stubbornly introduce children into the magical world of knowledge. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. To salute secondary teachers who have to deal with students who are almost mad at their language courses, schools, schools and special problems with adolescents, those who always take care of the education of children with disabilities under unacceptable conditions, those who train our children to respect others and the diversity and do all this without telling them thank you, the university teachers, who are committed to their atrocity and do not want to use this post to get rich. I'm not saying all teachers and all teachers have the same function. There are always smugglers. But let's say our gratitude is with those who perform the social function...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Gabroglou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u176	... those who build the other Greece, not the left Greece or the right Greece. Greece of preparedness and humanitarian values. Thank them very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u177	Mr Georgios Germenis from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u178	If we had given someone to read the speech of the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, without hearing it, he would have told us that it was the speech from the previous Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras. Only he forgot, of course, to mention in his speech that he would provide the world with the squares and public spaces free of charge with Wi-Fi etc. It is, of course, regrettable for you left-wing President and your party to have transformed into an extreme neoliberal right-wing party of the New Democracy or Socialist, but old, PASOK. However, you were as ideologists as easily converted into one day the proud 'no' of the Greek people against the Memorandum Policy into a great 'yes' of your Government into tropical and international loan sharks, who are the ones who drink and the blood of the working class, supposedly you left-wingers are the ones who defend its interests. Finally, the Left of Tsipras is cut only for the interests of capital. Yesterday we heard no tax relief for the ordinary people. Proved now, the only antimony force within the Greek Parliament fighting for the fairs of the Greek worker is the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn is fighting for the Greek farmer, the free professional and other professionals who have been affected by your five-year memorandum policy, since all of you are now proven to be voting for the memoranda and policy of Tsipras. Indeed, it seemed this Prime Minister not only has no prolific profile but also has courage. Because it is courageous to have completely dismantled rural development, with taxes of 26%, and all you say about farmers, by step by step of the House, is to keep books of revenue and expenditure. That's all you got. It's a shame when the public health system is dissolved to talk about social medicine in neighborhoods. What are they gonna do? Will they take any pressure on an old lady or a grandpa? In fact, I have a recent family example to tell you. A man from my family had a serious heart problem, he went to three public hospitals, paying out of his pocket private ambulance and had him thrown like a dog. He was forced 2-3 francs he had gathered aside to give them and to go to a private clinic and to be up again on his feet. Or he'd leave us time. In fact, in a hospital - I don't have to mention the name - they gave him a gift card from a ceremonial office! It is courageous, of course, to say that you will offer ranches to the children who go to the public schools and do not have to get a coup or a cheese when you do not look to make sure their parents have a decent job, get a decent wage. Thracian, of course, is to speak of racist cries in Greece when, for example, the resident of Victoria Square or Galatsiotis in Attica Alsos sees his squares and blossoms, where his child played until the other day, where he went out for a walk, now full of poachers, illegal immigrants. Have you asked them all, Prime Minister, government ministers? Maximus has a very big courtyard, if you want to - from what I know your homes are airy - to take them and put them in your courtyards. Also, since yesterday's speech the Prime Minister was missing the country's national issues, at a time when the country is being raised from everywhere. Skopje now in all the open international fora are called Macedonians, the Turks perpetuate the Aegean and we have reached the point where our country is eating carrots up to the so far from the soup wells, so far the Albanians have been. The Albanian state has now become a Turkish protectorate, since we all know that Turkey is based in Durres. We have heard nothing about engraving an Exclusive Economic Zone, drawing up our natural mineral wealth, for engraving new geostrategic policies. We didn't hear anything! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. You restricted the country's policy only to bleeding resources from the weak, the pensioners, the small and medium-sized enterprises employed by the people of three - four Greeks each, and they are now going to lock up. The rich have increased, the poor have increased, you have completely dismantled the middle class. Really, where were you guys saying nine months ago, like taking the frequencies from the channels and taxing them? Where are those commitments you made? It was just air words. Not to talk about the ENPIA, who was your election commitment, like that you would sift the Memorandum. Now we go for 2016 and for 2017! If the country ever comes out of them! Because you said you wanted the SYRIZA - ANEL Government to succeed and leave your mark in the political life of the place, I would like to tell you that you have already done it with the capital control. You don't have to do anything else. Since the Municipalisation, the world has never seen such tails before to get 60 euros. That's where you got the Greek to be a tail to his own bonus, who was picking up a life to put him in a cashier, in a bank!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Germenis, finish it up. You've already spent seven, seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u180	On the contrary, we, the Golden Dawn, are talking about a national plan for a free and strong Greece. Our aim is the Greek self-sufficiency in the basic lifestyles of our people and the priority of the Greeks in every structure of public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u181	Before giving the floor to the Minister, I would like to make two letters for a short-day leave from two colleagues, Mr Nasos Athanasios and Mr Nikos Dendias. Athanasios Athanasios and Nikolaos Dendias seek permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u182	The House approved the requested permits. Mr Panos Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time in today's sitting we have heard a crescendo of a miscellaneous preaching. I am referring to the speeches by Mr Germenis and Mr Cassidyri earlier. These days remember something that the Greek people do not forget. It's the trial of Paul Bridge. Even if, for reasons of regularity, you should have lower tons. [[Applause]] Democracy, which you despise and want to abolish, gives you the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u184	The people give it to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u185	But you know what? This is pleasant because, every time you speak, the hideous face of your ideas is revealed, the hideous face of Nazi views! So speak because this is a signal to the Greek people to always stand aside. I won't waste any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u186	...your anti-fascist ordn't heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u187	They're filing his mother and father!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u188	Respect the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u189	Don't interrupt the speaker! Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the starting point for a new development and productive effort in our country cannot but be the development of a new energy policy. Our strategic goal is to create an economic and environmentally sustainable long-term energy plan and to adopt a new structure and a new energy market model, with households as a priority, support for small and large enterprises by ensuring competitive energy costs and promoting energy investments with a multiplier impact on the economy. The development of a new energy policy, which takes serious account of international trends and developments and the specificities of the Greek economy and society. It is a direct priority, but also a prerequisite for the relaunching of our economy. In this context, we will take every opportunity to include in this strategy the relevant commitments and reforms included in the last agreement with their proper implementation in Greek reality and, where necessary, the finding of alternatives and options. We will insist on this, because any liberalisation of the market on the basis of the European markets will not have a real advantage unless it ensures investment for security of supply unless it provides better services and in particular cheaper electricity costs for citizens and the economy. The crisis of the previous development model, which also led to the debt crisis, has eroded in the five years of the memorandum, leading to a reduction in consumption and energy demand. In this climate privatization policies have been developed, focusing on PPC and the electricity transmission network. The previous political system, based on self-contained commitments and dependencies, was unable to approach modern technological developments, process and implement a modern, long-term energy design. Thus, the uncontrolled and market development of the electricity production infrastructure has formed a falsified domestic energy market. Many mechanisms for compensation, aid and ultimately guaranteed profits were activated for a private-sector private sector of production and disposal in the energy market. The strengthening of the share of gas in the energy mix, instead of channelling direct combustion, industry and households, was used in the production of electricity in the gas plants of private producers, by charging energy costs, with the corresponding social consequences. At the same time, the way in which renewable energy sources have developed, which have been another major growth - in introductory terms - have turned them into a burden factor for the general energy costs and private market manipulation. The country, therefore, remains in conditions of a contradictory, uncertain energy landscape to date, remains in an unstable and changing energy fuel mix, without any design at all. The adjustment of the domestic energy system to European data has not been possible until now, under the responsibility of the old political system. Any harmonisation of the domestic market in European standards, as defined by the European policy of the third package and the Target model, remains under the hostage of private interests and state-owned entrepreneurship. The government's strategic objective in the energy sector is a new democratic energy model, with priorities for social and environmental needs at local, regional and national level. This heading prejudges the gradual decommissioning of fossil fuels, the increase in active efficiency, the socially-oriented design of increasing the penetration of renewable energy sources. During the previous government, our own government, despite the great difficulties, despite the lack of liquidity, the overcompensation of the energy market, measures were taken to address deficits and debts from domestic consumers and businesses were settled. They were refuelled with electricity, hundreds of thousands of our destitute citizens. Genuine debt arrangements were granted by PPC’s new administration. The increases in electricity tariffs, which had been promoted in secret by the outgoing coexistence, have been canceled. In cooperation with the PPA, gas prices decreased significantly by at least 16%. Increases in regulated network tariffs have frozen. Mostly through a tough negotiation in the last month, during the debate on the last agreement, following a great preparation, the immediate privatisation of IPTO was disproved. Thus, the government's proposal was recorded in the agreement in the search for an alternative. This debate is under way and we believe that it will eventually be reflected in a law that safeguards the public character of PPC and will not privatise IPTO in the near future. The explicit timetable for the separation and privatisation of small PPC, which the lenders and domestic interests have persistently restored, which the Government of New Democracy and PASOK had implemented, was out of discussion and cancelled. The design and implementation of the various mechanisms that regulate the production and supply of electricity, on the basis of the general European Union's energy policies, remain open to negotiating and demanding fields to ensure energy as a social asset and development by means of decisive public control of the organisation and management of the whole system. Ladies and gentlemen, the international energy environment is not exhausted within the limits of the European Union. On the basis of the country's particular geopolitical position, a coherent and long-term plan of strategy is required, aimed at the country's energy sovereignty with pluralism of energy sources, cooperation and corporate alliances. The government proposal aims to make use of the country's position in the international energy field as an investment basis. For the overall organisation of the energy field, it is necessary to develop and implement a national strategy, in line with the general policies of the European Union, but mainly adapted to the economic, social, productive and geophysical specificities of our country. To this end, we will recommend a National Energy Council, in which all sector actors and all categories of consumers will be invited to participate. The renewable energy sector is strategically important for our country. It is a factor that is in line with the general European policy. The development of the indigenous potential of RES contributes to the formation of the national energy mix, energy security of the country and its participation in climate protection. The formation of a pluralist, in the forms of the social, public energy-generating sector with the core of PPC, protected from privatization practices, is recommended. In the production ceilings provided for in the agreement, in order to create an artificial space for private individuals, we must design those institutional financial conditions for the establishment of viable corporate schemes on a cooperative basis, associated, for example, with the energy autonomy of selected islands, the technology of renewable energy sources or hybrid systems, including forms of partnerships and even genuine private investment in self-production of industrial plants and structures. In this way they can mitigate the impact of the competition rated. A decisive factor in our energy policy and strategy is energy savings and a radical change in the current energy balance. Public preparation of an investment programme in energy saving will help reduce energy costs, protect the environment, improve the quality of life of citizens, create thousands of new jobs by re-establishing a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector. The large scale requires medium-term replacement with economic criteria of old polluting lignite plants with modern, much better performance and anti-pollution technology. The restructuring of the independent authorities is needed in order to strengthen their independent and public interest, to reverse until today the invocation of market rules for the premium for private individuals in strict price control, supply and production functions, with a view to reducing the overall cost of prices. The aim is to integrate them into a public energy policy that will direct and control the market in practices that are compatible with social needs in relation to energy poverty and productive degradation. Reconstructing the energy field can release the country's established research potential in public terms and socially beneficial research results. A coherent energy intervention and planning strategy must further exploit and feed public research into directions such as clean technologies, energy saving systems, autonomous systems on the islands, hybrid systems to cover the targeting of renewable energy sources. Intelligent cash networks technologies, implementation studies for capacity building, small as medium-sized renewable power generation. The aim and objective of the proposed reform of the gas retail market remains the fastest possible reduction in energy costs in industry and in marginal consumption. The increase in the use of gas by direct combustion will differentiate the source of supply. The increase in interconnection at regional and European level, the renegotiation of existing contracts aimed at reducing prices, the extension of gas use to more areas of the country, together with ensuring that consumers can choose a supplier, will lead to price rationalisation in order to reach the European average. Ladies and gentlemen, the settlement of open issues relating to the TAP pipeline is completed in order to ensure on a new basis the greatest possible benefits, both financially and locally. Let's open a parentheses here. The agreement made by the previous governments with the TAP was not a good deal. We are trying - even at the very last moment - to be able to correct what we can correct. Maintaining the strategic position of the public in ELPE - I am referring to the 'Greek Petroleum' - allows international cooperation, the company's evolution to an international energy company with increased export orientation and the company's contribution to the national energy strategy. Based on the current refining capacity of ELPEs, their technological infrastructure and the high technology of the workforce, corresponding policies can be promoted. The new administration has indeed given very good and important examples of writing. And after several years, it seems that '15 will close as a profitable year for the ELPEs. But at this point I would like to make a special reference to the security systems of the ELPEs. You remember the tragic accident that we experienced, and it was the second day that the new administration took over. There has been a very considerable effort to increase the level of safety and improve working conditions within ELPEs. Ladies and gentlemen, the main energy, however, is the development of a long-term energy planning, which has never been developed with credibility in our country, in which the objective objectives and impacts on their implementation will be set, where necessary. In this respect we need to be able to use domestic geothermality. The use of geothermality, which is a continuously renewable source of energy in Greece, does not exist until now and there is no generation of geothermal origin. Another crucial issue is networks and interconnections. The development of interconnections is crucial in the European system and in the wider region of the Balkans. In the Greek system, the existing connections are not very strong and new connections are needed, which should be promoted by IPTO with programmes which, in the context of the promotion of projects of common European interest, will enable us to interconnect with other countries. These are issues relating to the environment and planning. I imagine that the Deputy Minister, Mr. Chironis, will be referring to these issues in detail. I would like to refer to two issues, one of which concerns topicality, and the other has been heard by the previous speaker, a Member of Parliament from New Democracy. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, we all understand the need for our economy to be competitive. It is important what content each one gives to competition. If competition is how each country will compete to dismantle its social system, its insurance system, how it will reduce labour costs, then this is a disastrous and anti-social competition. That is what we are giving it to you. We really want our country to use its comparative advantages, to be credible in the area of innovation, to actually be able to fill gaps in the world market. But you realise that there is a huge distance both in terms of perception and in terms of policies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] One last. You will give me some time, Mr President, because this is about Skouria and it is about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u191	I would ask you in a minute to complete it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u192	Wait a minute. There were too many things about the Skouri case before the elections. Most of them were out of reality and even some domestic systemic media took the attempt to misinform, to make the night. We made it clear that our position and the decision taken on 19 August to suspend work in Skouria was not of an electoral nature. On the contrary, it starts from our belief that in this place we must protect the environment, legality. The public interest must be protected. Watch out. I am referring above all to the forces of counter-population. You are making a very big mistake when you say that the way we have faced, on the basis of these values I have mentioned, gives the international investment audience the wrong signal. If you want to give the signal that Greece is a country that has no rules, which does not protect the environment, that Greece is a third-world country, then we again disagree here. Oh, no. Greece is a European country. The government has a mandate to protect the environment, to protect the workers, the citizens of that region and to defend legality. That's how we move from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before giving the floor to Mrs Keramos, please return me to read out five letters from the respective parliamentary groups. Mrs Fofi Genemas, President of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR, by letter to the President of the Greek Parliament Mr.Nikolaos Voutsis, informs us that pursuant to Rule 17(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Mr.Athanasios Theocharopoulos and Mr. Andreas Loverdos as Parliamentary Representatives of the Democratic Assent of PASOK - DIMAR. Also, the Secretary-General of the Central Commission and President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr Voutsi, informs that during the current parliamentary term Parliamentary representatives are appointed by Mr Pafilis Athanasios, Member of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party, and Mr Karathanasopoulos Nikos, MP of the Communist Party. Accordingly, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Party's Parliamentary Group Potami, by letter to Mr Voutsi, President of the Greek Parliament, informs that Parliamentary representatives of the party The Potami is appointed by Mr Theocharis Theocharis, Member of the Athens Parliament and Mr Spyridon Dannelis, MP of Heraklion. Mr Panos Kammenos, President of the Group of Independent Greeks, by letter to the President of the Greek Parliament, informs us that during the current parliamentary term Parliamentary Representatives of the Independent Greeks will be Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, MP Mr. II of Athens, and Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, MP Mr. Larissa. Finally, Mr. Vassilis Leventis, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres, by letter to the President of the Parliament, Mr. Voutsi, announces that Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres will be Mr. Karras Georgios-Dimitrios of the Kingdom, as well as the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Centres, as well as Mr. Marios Georgiadis of Nikolaos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u194	Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to wish the new government a success, because if the government succeeds, our country will succeed, and that is obviously the concern of all of us. I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister last night. One I heard satisfied me, even temporary, even superficially, but much was surprised and explained. I'm going to the surface at least, good evidence. Last night we saw Mr. Tsipras again. He was transformed at least in relation to his chronic, fixed positions and in relation to the February programming statements. We have over the period of shading of the memorandum, we have overcome the final dismissal of the troika from Greece, and so on. I really hope that this turn will be sincere and that the government will now come forward with determination on the road to the implementation of the reforms. I am now going to the points that have surprised me in the Prime Minister's Programming Declarations and, unfortunately, there are a lot of them. Firstly, the Prime Minister told us that the plan for the governance of New Democracy and PASOK has failed miserably, although the New Democracy has received the country with a recession of less than 8% and has delivered it with a growth of 0.8%, despite bringing our country up more than forty positions in the World Bank's Entrepreneurship Index, even though it has emerged from the OECD as a champion in structural reforms. The Prime Minister also told us that, with the third memorandum of SYRIZA, the foundations for the new economic and productive model, which puts the needs of many above the profits of the few, have been laid. These are the words of the Prime Minister. And I ask: How exactly do you think it does this when the new memorandum that brought people up to a maximum of 2.4 billion euros through the increase in VAT, when it cuts pensions by 1.8 billion euros, when it increases the tax on businesses from 26% to 29%, when it provides for a tax payment of up to 100% for companies and free trade, when it increases the solidarity levy, when it reduces the income on heating oil, when it triples contributions for farmers? Secondly, the Prime Minister has spoken to us about the unacceptablely high unemployment in recent years over New Democracy and PASOK governments and high undeclared work. However, Mr Tsipras did not say a word about the fact that during the only seven months of the SYRIZA administration, youth unemployment increased by four units, while previously, on the New Democracy, it had been reduced by seven units and undeclared work only in the first two months of SYRIZA governance - ANEL increased by eight percentage points. Thirdly, in social policy, Mr Tsipras told us that the humanitarian crisis law brought about by the government in March is working hand-in-hand on the next interventions of the government. I really do, gentlemen of the government, hope that's not the case. This humanitarian crisis law was a drop in the ocean for vulnerable groups, a simple firework, aimed at creating impressions. When I had raised this issue in Parliament, namely that these measures are on the record and that they do absolutely nothing to reintegrating these vulnerable groups into the social and labour fabric, the government replied to me that such measures will be taken in the next few months, as the government should do on the basis of the National Strategic Framework for Social Integration. As far as I know, however, he did absolutely nothing in this direction. Such reintegration measures for vulnerable groups into the social and labour fabric are the ones that should be wheelchaired to use the expression of the Prime Minister and not the on-the-spot, inadequate and pyrotechnic measures brought by the humanitarian crisis bill. Fourthly, as far as private investment is concerned, the Prime Minister told us that he would give a great deal of emphasis in this area and that he would even set up a special attraction for investment. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, here he had the most brilliant opportunity to convince international colossal investors in America last week at the interview Mr Clinton took him, who was constantly giving him a lot to attract investors and, instead, the Prime Minister lost every opportunity. It wasn't a matter of language. It was a matter of substance. He was unable to say a word to these candidate investors about how they could depreciate their investment nor explain these investment opportunities nor generally explain the country's business plan. But let's not go far. Here, in SYRIZA's election programme on page 23, SYRIZA is proud of the fact that from the twenty-three privatisations it has managed to agree only nine. That's just untrue. I invite you to look at the annex to the memorandum that this House has voted on, to see that the twenty-three privatisations are being discussed in detail. It won't be nine, but twenty-three. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, how will you implement the privatizations that you are committed to when you demonize them? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Fifthly, as far as the ESDP programmes are concerned, the Prime Minister told us that he will try not to lose a single euro. But he has not told us when and how he will put back the thousands of fourteen works which have been stopped in the last six months throughout the territory. Sixth, regarding public administration, he told us that two thousand five hundred doctors and other health professionals would be proclaimed in the next period. This is indeed very important, because the shortcomings are appalling. I oppose the fact that in February he had spoken to us about four thousand five hundred positions, and I am focusing on the fact that neither then nor today he told us where he would find these positions and what money he would cover them. I say this because according to the memorandum, up to 11 000 recruitment has been planned in 2015. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Already, with the reappointments of the Katrugalos Act, we have reached seven thousand five hundred, without all the other needs of the State being taken into account by shortcomings and pensions. Finally, we have not heard a word about how the government will make up for the unprecedented economic collapse that occurred in the seven months of the SYRIZA governance, how it will make up for the seventeen thousand private sector officials who have lost their jobs only because of the referendum and the imposition of capital controls. We have not heard a single word about the unprecedented increase in government debts by 52%, about what it will do to bring back the sixty thousand Greek businesses that requested a transfer of headquarters outside Greece, about what it will do to delay tax revenues by 3,5 billion euros, about what industry will do this half by 13.4%. All these are elements of the last six months. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the Greek people have clearly given you a second chance, as you requested. However, this is at the same time the last opportunity for the country and the burden of your responsibility is extremely great. The New Democracy does not give a vote of confidence to your Government. The New Democracy will conduct a responsible and constructive policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. Mrs Theophevette Aphrodite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, the confidence shown by the Greek people in the last elections is that it gives us strength to move hard work and collectively on these changes and reforms needed to create a different Greece, a Greece that will return in 2016 at a positive rate of growth, make the debt viable and restore its international authority. In fact, we are seeing important steps already. The implementation of these objectives over the next four years is possible, but large areas and reforms are needed to make the state operational and reliable. Since the previous period of our governance there has been an attempt to create a new national development plan, a new economist model, which is in contrast to the neoliberal recipe - which has been followed mainly in the last five years. In this recipe that failed is trying to establish any economic growth on the compression of labour costs and labour rights, the disappearance of small production, the violent adaptation of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship - we are opposed to another model, a productive and economic model, which must work in practice and produce social and economic results. The economic model that we are planning has at its heart the Greek citizen, the protection of labour, the redistribution of tax burdens and the strengthening of active demand, focuses on new technologies, new innovative businesses, the successful use of European resources and the absorption into the domestic labour market of our most trained human resources. The foundation of this strategic planning is, of course, the rapid restoration of economic stability and the normalisation of our banking system. With the fresh mandate of the Greek people, we proceed with the implementation of the agreement, so that we have the completion of a first assessment, so that the discussion on debt write-downs can be opened on the basis of the agreement to open up and, at the same time, the process of recapitalisation of the banks, which will ensure the deposits and restore liquidity to the real economy. There are difficult, unjust and socially painful points in this agreement. But there are not just thorns. The challenges to combat tax evasion, the changes in public administration, the administration of justice are open to issues, thanks to our perseverance, which are likely to be changes in the policy that we are going to pursue in order to win the Greek people, such as regulation of red loans, protection of first residence, reintroduction of collective bargaining in the labour market. On open fields, on open issues, on which the applicable policy has not yet been finalised, we will give the battle with a plan and proposals to maintain the ground that we have gained in the negotiation and the final result will be for the benefit of the Greek people, for the benefit of the social interest. So it takes hard work, without selfishness, but with collectiveness and with a sense of the great responsibility we take, of the responsibility to restore the social justice and dignity of the Greek people for a society of equality and prosperity. Television frequencies bills, to combat tobacco smuggling, to co-operative organizations for farmers, to establish the framework for the restructuring of public administrations are on our priorities, ready to come down to Parliament. We are therefore called upon, ladies and gentlemen, to face, not only a five-year economic and humanitarian crisis, but also a bounty of decades, which are all afflicting citizens in their daily lives. One of the causes, therefore, of the imposition of the memorials is the non-existence and lack of a normal state, a state with too many things that are understood to be self-evident in the other Western states and structures, such as the Incorporation, the National Register, the Forest, the application of the digital convening, a fair tax system, the fight against bureaucracy and pluralism, a state that respects and helps the citizen and does not trouble him. So, knowing and having heard several times from this Step similar words and promises, they have the political maturity to know that only the Left, with its specific moral and worthy system, has the political will to conflict with the great interests of protecting the weak. Only the Left is the power that is not fugitive, it is not escaped from the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Theopevettus. Mr Sifakis John has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first issues that concern the government and are also the main demands of Greek society - which, of course, continue to be sighed by the unemployment and poverty to which the policies of the past five years have condemned it and the policies of the past five years have made it worse by destroying the country's productive base - are the relaunch of the economy, coupled with the sense, in the direction of social justice, social protection and redistribution for the benefit of small and medium-sized strata. The relaunch of the economy first requires stability, which will be ensured by the success of the first assessment, the recapitalisation of banks, which after the regulation of red loans in order to save the first residence of the world, which cannot be paid, must pass liquidity on to the real economy, to small and medium-sized enterprises and to healthy entrepreneurship to invest. Because the economy cannot be restarted without banks. Here we must praise the Prime Minister's commitment to changing the administrations of the banks that will be recapitalised, so that absolute irrationality does not continue to exist for so many years in the banks that have been bankrupt. The tools for relaunching the economy are the NSRP, which is redirected and will pass 4.5 billion by the end of the year in the market and the real economy, the development law, tabled for a vote and which changes its criteria and prioritises domestic added value, employment and innovation and the development bank for SMEs and the rural world, which will begin in the second half of 2016. Re-start that aims to lead to productive reconstruction and development of the country with society upright, with wages, wages and employment relations between Europe, not China, and with healthy entrepreneurship, not to perpetuate the occult, scandals and predator and oriented to the service of real social needs, and not, as the Minister has said, 80% of the Ministry's work to build six companies, half of which have channels. As far as energy is concerned, the Greek energy market is today characterised by distortions and conflicting options for the benefit of specific oligopolises in electricity production as a result of the total absence of long-term energy planning and national policy over all years, as well as time-limiting mechanisms for adapting to changing market conditions. The success of the country's development goals for the country's environmental, social and productive reconstruction presupposes a radical transformation into the energy market, which can be one of the key sectors of the economy to overcome the crisis, for the country's competitiveness, for the construction of a productive structure and for the existence of infrastructure, even at this very difficult time. The main objectives of the new energy planning - also mentioned by the Minister responsible, Panos Skourletis - will be to defend the public interest, to defend the healthy business forces of energy, particularly small, decentralised projects that really contribute to regional development, to the public and private sectors of all categories of domestic production infrastructure and, of course, to protect consumers, if possible by reducing the cost of electricity and in any case by further increasing it. The establishment of a National Energy Council, announced a moment ago, will help decisively in this direction. As far as the rural economy is concerned, a distinction is needed between the principal agricultural sector and an effort to protect it, especially the small farmer, who have been really hard-tested for the past few years. To pass on to the revenue and expenditure books, which were rightly announced that farmers must keep all the costs, family subsistence allowances, allowances and all the costs of post-mortem land workers after the completion of the process that ends, in terms of reducing the cost of revocation. To be given a cultivation card, so that it can obtain the crops it needs. To vote for the new law on cooperative organisations and to make a great effort to reorganise farmers and farmers on a new basis, free of the pathogenesis and smilings of the past. To claim quality markets and serious participation in interbranch organizations to improve agricultural income, along with intervention in the price of producer and consumer. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which the Greek people have entrusted for a second time in a few months to the recent elections to manage the very difficult situation, trusted it because this government, having nothing to do with the complexity, corruption, the sufferings of the past decades, can and is the only one that will make it with them, will move quickly on to stabilisation, relaunching the economy, and restoring positive growth, reducing unemployment, social justice, social protection and redistribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Sifakis. Before I give the floor to Mr Kutsukouko, I would like to make a statement: After both the parliamentary groups and the parliamentary representatives of all the parties, after the end of the third cycle of speakers, plus Mr Marda, who is the last Minister after the third-cycle Members of Parliament, the cycle of parliamentary representatives of the parties will begin. Mr Giannis Koutsoukos has the floor from the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it has been understood by all - and I believe by you of the majority - that as a country and as a people we are entering a three-year painful trial, and that is, of course, with the vote of the Greek people. The same people who have convinced him and voted to you in Genoa that you will tear down the memoirs, that you would give a third pension, that you would abolish HNPHIA, that you would make a tax free of 12 thousand euros and a whole lot of others. Now you have convinced him that you have made a tough negotiation. And because I have heard several orators of the majority, both from the seats of the House and from the ministers, talk about the morality of the Left, if I am not mistaken, there is no morality for any political power, no more for the Left, if it is not related to the truth and if the Left does not see the relationship of truth with democracy and how it affects the political developments and the vote of the Greek people. Because, ladies and gentlemen, you must answer first of all to the Greek people if this third, the most predatory memorandum, was inevitable, that is, an undeniable necessity, was an automatic pilot to which the country was moving or you have a responsibility that we were led there. For obviously to come to power you have undermined the country's exit course, which could have been achieved if we had not been led to the early elections in Genoa, and much more you have not exploited the advantages that the country had in Genoa, with the primary surpluses and development, on the basis of the assessments of international organisations, to conclude an advantageous exit agreement. And after a seven-month old manoeuvre in front of - back and the horrors of all those who handled things, responsible primarily for the Prime Minister, who had given them the mandate, we arrived at the third most horrific memorial, so that the country would not go bankrupt. And where does that get us? It is turning us to the starting point, where we started in 2009, to the deficits, to the recession and to the logic of debt renegotiation, but if you see what the Prime Minister said yesterday, it is no more than what we said in 2012 and that is provided for in the Eurogroup agreement, that is, the parametric changes. They're getting too stubborn, the deletions go, and we're coming to prolongation and interest rates. When we told you, of course, you complained and now we are reintroducing new burdens and new cuts. The deal, the Prime Minister said yesterday, is an act of resistance. Really, is it a resistance act? If one reads the budget, one will see that it contains unbearable weights of 6.3 billion in 2015 and 2016, with new taxes and cuts in social security, especially in the weakest, since for the first time the core of the system, which is the lowest pensions, is affected. I was listening to Mr. Skourlet here earlier. He has signed his signature where we resisted and refused to pay the lower pensions. This budget brings us back to deficits and unemployment. From 24.6% in 2014, we will go to 25.8% and, of course, it leads us to a material situation, which cannot pay back the taxes that we expect the state to collect and thus go to a vicious circle. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the government's argument? It is that it has negotiated the reduction of budgetary targets and so has, it says, 20 billion margin, air. But these, ladies and gentlemen, are nothing but the cost of failing government policy. It is 11 billion of GDP reduction because of the past period's depopulation, 11 billion of the CFSF, which you returned and were at the edge of the banking recapitalisation, and 40 billion are the outflows from the banking system, and that costs you are trying to turn it into a benefit, in air, that is, that will go to growth and social policy. From the budget it seems we will have cutbacks in social policy, and growth will be slow, it will come in 2017 - when it comes, with good! - as the budget says. Against this, you're making a number of diversions. You're not leaving the regulars. The ministers come here with preoccupation and baboon against oligarchy, against interests. He sees the people you are empathetic with, who you hug and laugh. Mr Paulakis said earlier that we were making horizontal cuts, we did not touch on the interests. I would therefore inform you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that some of you are new in this Chamber, that no reform that affected interests has been voted on. You did not vote for the drug cuts, you did not vote for the opening of the accounts, you did not vote for the financial prosecutors, and you tell us that you will fight the oligarchy! I also heard Mr. Kontonis, who also messed with the football players. Mr Alexiadis, tell Mr. Kontonis that the coup d'état of the MDG that he put millionaires into the hundred instalments did not do it, the SYRIZA government did it, and we have called on you repeatedly to tell us which millionaires joined this arrangement and you are not answering us. So let the diversions come to reality, see if you can go back to the relaunch of the economy, to liquidity in the market, to a stable framework that will bring investments, so that the place can come out and not sow more disappointment to the people. We, ladies and gentlemen, know that the government is binding on its own catastrophic choices. Unfortunately, he has committed the country as well. We cannot consent to this commitment. We voted for the agreement so that the country won't go bankrupt. The Tsipras - Kammenos measures are not our concern. We have said the five 'no's' concerning the overtaxation of farmers, the insecurity of borrowers, 23% in education, collective redundancies, and especially in the case of low pensions, and we will consistently and responsibly go back and forth and take the glory, but the consensus on this catastrophic policy, which the people pay for, is not going to give. Because the people need to know who is responsible for the account and return it to them when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Typho Alexiadis, Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u203	Tell us about the hundred doses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the twelve minutes that I have, I cannot, of course, make a full analysis of the fiscal policy that the government will pursue over the next four years. Because this is what people in this Chamber should start thinking about, rather than thinking about, various breaks or other situations. I shall, however, try to give the axes and the framework of our policy and to give you a clear picture of where we will move and really answer me by the Antipolitics (those who are here of course - because they probably have another job, especially in the New Democracy and are absent) what is different from what you propose on tax policy issues. Because criticism and complaints are very good, but we must also listen to the proposal. To analyse the fiscal policy of the government and to discuss it, we will have many opportunities, because we have a different policy as a government. We have a firm orientation on the issues of dialogue and we will have a dialogue with any changes in the tax system, with dialogue with the social actors, with their businesses and representatives, their citizens, accountants, tax and party accountants, with you, because we want a tax policy that will not be imposed on the MMs in the Constitution and with party disciplines in here and that is what we will pursue. Well, starting to solve a huge misunderstanding. It accepts a criticism of the government and of an attack, because it implements tax policy, especially that they have decided and voted for PASOK and New Democracy. And we must apologise for all these issues. And there are some media that now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u205	Minister, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u206	Your Honor, is there anything you want to say? If you want me to interrupt, I don't know the procedure, I've been talking to the House for the first time. Show some patience, you'll have the chance to talk about it later. So there are some media, which now all day long have vulgar titles, responses, living connections, etc. On tax policy issues, when these matters were digitized, they had drinken unspoiled water. They weren't talking at that time. In fact, there are various journalists from these media who are ruining the expensive ink in their Mont Blanc, who were superfluous and then supporting this tax policy and said that it is a one-way road and nothing else could be done. So they come now and talk about a tax storm, earthquakes, disasters. Finally, let some understand that the election period is over, they have not convinced them. Let's change the tape because, as long as they keep the same tape and say the same arguments, they make the greatest gift to SYRIZA, who has proposals, he's in a mood for overthrowing, he's in the mood for games. We're clear. The government is forced to implement a series of measures that are not in DNA ideology, in its ideological context. The Prime Minister said so clearly yesterday and in previous times. HISFIA, which remains in 2015, is not a political choice for us, is a political necessity. VAT on the islands, which is a recent measure that we had to impose - remains on the agenda, what the commitment of July says, that we will review the issue of rates in 2016, with specific standards and that there will be compensation for income tax or elsewhere for the inhabitants of these regions - is not, like many other measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u207	I'm sorry, Minister, it's not just on the islands, it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u208	VAT on the islands, like other measures, is measures which are not our political choice. It is the political necessity. I will tell you below what our political measures are. So, unlike others, we are not happy with this policy, nor are we afraid of anyone else stealing from us the glory of redundancies, austerity or barbaric taxation. We continue to fight for fair taxation, we continue to fight for the implementation of the agreement of laws 4334 and 4336, not only of the agreement, but also of forgotten memorandum provisions, which, although they had been voted on, had never been implemented. For example, the 2010 Act on the Tax on Television Advertising. And here I would like one of the next speakers to explain to me - I am a new Minister to explain to me what and how - how a law passed in 2010, every year in 2010, they were not implemented, but a PPP or another law came and were postponed for a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u209	The Minister's asking, but he's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u210	Did you forget, at the same time as you said we had great revenue needs and we need to increase revenue? Let me remind you of another case. A 2013 Act allowing tax services, financial prosecutors, economic police, full access to the controlled bank accounts. There was a ministerial decision coming up. Do you know when he got out? Now he went out to the service government, because there was then and now the political will. I could say a lot of such examples, but I do not want to stay in yesterday. I want to go to what we are doing from now on, because we are implementing the agreement. We have adopted the decisions provided for in the agreement transferring certain responsibilities of the ILO to the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, implementing the commitments of the agreement before the timetable, and we will continue to do so, especially on the many positive points of the agreement. As far as the basic principles of our tax policy are concerned now. First of all, it is the self-evident application of Article 4 of the Constitution on tax justice. It's really the tough line that we're following. It is fiscal stability, in order to facilitate investment and productive reconstruction, to simplify the system to other countries' standards, with full use of IT, to transfer the tax burden from medium and low incomes and property to large and very large. The tax support for enterprises on the basis of the criteria for rewarding the consistency of tax competition with other countries, especially the northern border of the country, the strengthening of sectors, actions, etc., which are of particular importance. All of this will not be done by fragmentary measures and provisions and rifles in the air. It will be done with a rational central planning plan that will be implemented. We will proceed to actions to simplify bureaucratic procedures and to help citizens and businesses in European countries' standards. With an operational plan, to stop the suffering of citizens, accountants and businesses in the field, we will stop the transaction of the public with the taxes in 2016. Commitments will deal with their main task, which is audit work and will stop being points and centres of suffering, bureaucracy and delays. We will implement a legislative framework that existed since 2013, a very positive provision which provided for electronic document delivery. In the Ministry of Finance in 2014 we ruined 11,500,000 euros to release documents in the old traditional way. We will make use of transactions with plastic money citizen and taxi to extend and legislate to the maximum extent possible in three ways: with incentives, first of all, to the citizen (taxes, draws, returns from banks and businesses), with incentives to the company (tax, procedural, simplification), with a change of attitude in both taxation and the bank. Because it's not possible to tell him "send a machine and use plastic money", but whatever he collects, to come and get it for him as a tax debt or as a loan to the bank. We will provide these amounts with the creation of a professional account and, of course, with a reduction in the cost of supply on the market and use of machinery. Of course, we will proceed to a series of actions on tax evasion issues. I start with the most important one, and I read it exactly as it will be, so that there is no comment. Priority to the completion and initiation of checks - for which control orders have already been issued by the past or public prosecutor orders - companies or persons associated with policy now or in the past and with the media. The aim is that these checks have been completed within five months, without reasonable political intervention in the control mechanisms, as we had previously seen and that is clearly reflected by the n. Regulation (EEC) No 4336, adopted by Parliament. We put an end to immunity, special treatments, etc. Given the presumption of innocence we definitively close the chapter of interoperable, corruption and tax evasion, which cost the Greek citizen. We are introducing direct legislation within a month and a half to extend the limitation of tax cases to 31-12-2015. Specifically in the case of large tax evasion cases and as far as matters of serious content are concerned, orders have been issued for inspection or for appeals or will be issued up to 31-12-2015. We move on to legal settlement for voluntary disclosure of funds in the country and abroad. We are giving a last chance to those who have capital abroad and have not revealed them, because afterward, on the basis of the international conventions that the country has and on the basis of the Incorporation, we will run out of any possibility of revealing and taxing these undeclared funds. On the basis of a specific operational plan, we will proceed to extensive tax controls within 2016, to public suppliers, technical companies, multinational groups, banking groups, media, private roads, bridges, etc. For obvious reasons, we must not waste time explaining it. We are aiming, in other words, at the great tax evasion, based on international and European audit standards, objectives and methods. We are copying this and adopting European countries' audit standards and procedures, so that we can have the best results. Our model is the checks carried out in Germany at dawn hundreds of tax controllers and policemen entered a large business on tax evasion issues. We will have such scenes in Greece, not only in the small and medium-sized tax evasion, which was the main burden of tax controls in the past, but mainly in the large, surname and overlapping. Finally, we are implementing a direct operational plan for the completion within 2016 of the major evasion cases, the listers of shame and tax evasion. We put an end to the auditing of cases, such as the Lagard list, the list that arrived in Greece officially in 2010, and it took two years to end the financial prosecutors. I will testify for the Minutes a full table of what has been done on this case, which, from the two thousand sixty-two names, has so far begun to control four hundred and eighty-one cases and has only been completed in thirty-six hundred cases. The Lagard list is deleted on 31-12-2015 and we will do everything possible to prevent this from happening. It is not possible in a case so important that we have so little control. Only three hundred auditors have dealt with these matters over the years. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Trif Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are strengthening the ILO and I deplore what is heard that the IMO is falling apart, abolished, etc. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, if I can have too little time to say two more things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u211	Minister, the little thing you say, how much do you demarcate? One minute, two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u212	If you give me two, three minutes, I'll be happy. I will be very brief in one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u213	I'd say we share happiness in half in half a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u214	Whatever you say. We are therefore strengthening the ILO, we are not breaking up, we are implementing the framework of the agreement and we are making progress in this area, in the standards of international organisations and the respective international agencies. I do not have time to say about the Cape Verde and the rest, which we will see in the next few months, and we will agree on how to implement them. I would just like to mention the issue of the tax controls that took place in the summer and the fact that happened yesterday. This summer we managed and did over forty thousand checks in the tourist season, when in previous years, in 2014 there had been twenty-two thousand seventy-five and seven thousand-five in 2013. I imagine the speakers will explain why we have had this delay. In these controls we were attacked, as attacks were carried out yesterday by tax officers, in the presence of policemen, in Amphintino by some who consider that they have the irresponsible and consider that they will not have any problem in controlling them. That's over. There is no way that we could tolerate logic and situations such as what happened yesterday in Amyntheus, the auditors being arrested because they did their job and they caught a "mummy" cash machine and referred to the self-sacrifice when all the checks took place in the presence of police officers. I will ask the relevant ministers to have a full debate on the whole matter. I close by reading from the press release issued by the Association of Taxes of Western Macedonia, and I think that expresses everyone: "The fight against tax evasion will give it together with the whole society, because it is a struggle that concerns us all. Such incidents do not hurt us, we shall continue unreservedly in our control work, because tax evasion means less public revenue, worse health, worse education.' Together with society we will give the fight against tax evasion and win it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u216	The Programming Declarations have not been surprised, as it is the spirit of the third memorandum and of the European Union's regulations, which breaks what remains of social rights and makes people even more poorer. After all, this is your role as a social democracy. Promote the capitalist modernisation, which includes, among other things, destruction, extermination of small-scale layers from the farm, the self-employed, the small-professionals, directly, quickly, violently, to reap their turnover, the monopoly and the business groups. These are in the capitalist restructuring of the European Union and of the International Monetary Fund, and of course they are also contained in the memoranda. In this sense, the fewer men, whatever you say, are allegedly your enemies, are not at all concerned by your government's policy. On the contrary, they are sending you congratulations through their representatives and pressing you for the rapid implementation of the agreed ones, because they know that you are getting them new profitability and privileges. Besides, the tools of extermination are ready. They are also included in the preliminary draft budget you have tabled. You are already implementing the harsh taxation of poor farmers, which has been introduced by the New Democracy and the PASOK, and making it rougher in ways that Mr Alexiadis has developed just before, but not for the big capital, because this is legally exempted. You do not even mention tax exemption, but tax evasion. So they have already gone cleansing to farmers. Many people do not have to pay, and now the clearing house is being sent in addition, to pay extra money as a tax advance, which you double from 27.5% to 55%. They're already on the streets, and they're good. More will come out. Approval for their destruction didn't give you. The same and worse you do with the self-employed and microprofessionals. In other words, it is not enough that you have been looted and cannot survive, that you ask them for an advance tax payment for next year, whereas they do not literally know whether they are there or whether they will be in the armies of the unemployed or of the custodians. And while you're destroying small and medium-sized ones, you're pretending to be protecting them. Hypocrisy and demagogue have no limits. That's what you call social justice. The Prime Minister told us that 20 billion will be used for farmers. They are the subsidies of the European Union's CFP, which are less than the previous period and, of course, as the previous ones have not improved the position of the small and medium-sized farmers, but have made it worse, the same will continue even stronger. Because the aim of the European Union and the governments is to concentrate on land, production, subsidies and trade in large capitalist rural enterprises. That is why 80% of subsidies are concentrated in the hands of 20% of farmers, and in our country 50% of the beneficiaries take less than EUR 1.250 a year. In addition, with the new stricter definition of the main agricultural sector which has been said, you will be deprived of subsidies and will be cut off more quickly and with the tax burden on those poor farmers who survive with an additional income. In tourist areas, farmers from mountain villages work. In the summer, they're making cuts in processing. If the extra-agricultural sector exceeds almost 2 euros the agricultural income, then you declassify them as farmers and go bankrupt. So you put additional tools for the concentration of land, production, subsidies to the few. You don't hide it. You are clearly talking about greater concentration of agricultural holdings, as you have other abundant tools for tax raids. The direct tax, which will gradually reach 26% and the tax advance to 100%, the abolition of agricultural oil, HICPIA to house, warehouse, field, staging, VAT 23% on farmland. You triple contributions to OGA, carpeting in ELGA, OSE, spray certification, drilling and finishing you don't have. Who's gonna survive? The big man will be older! And then you say that you protect small and medium-sized people and ask for equivalents. Objection! Depending on this, monopolies are also favoured by the privatisation of state property, such as the further privatisation of the port of Piraeus, including about six hundred acres of fillet of Drapetsona fertilisers, which have been defined for years by business groups. Even though Mr. Tsipras promised more election in Keracini. He was demolition! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are therefore voting against the Programmatic Declarations guaranteeing cruel austerity, because we support the people and not the capital. We are fighting for permanent and stable work for all, exclusively public and free health, welfare, education, sport, culture, which means making use of domestic sources of wealth and the concentrated means of production that will go through the property and needs of society. That is why we call on the people to raise the class movement in order to prevent today's throat and to bow to the overthrow of capitalist barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr. Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to welcome, in this new composition, the new Members and the new Members of Parliament who were elected and wish them good courage, as well as all the older Members in January, and the older ones who were re-elected. It is a difficult period and I think we will all respond to the difficulties of the times. Ladies and gentlemen, the people have spoken. He spoke, he bruised and gave SYRIZA a big, huge victory in the 20 September elections. Indeed, this was done on the reverse of the design of circles within the country, but also in Europe, who were trying to create and achieve the left-hand scenario, and indeed with the help, unfortunately, of people who are also on the left. A government, a newly elected government in January and a Prime Minister negotiated hard for seven months, fought both domestically and mainly abroad, so that it could create a better future for the country, for young people, for farmers, for the unemployed, for the small and medium-sized enterprises and all those social strata that have been affected by the crisis. And this tough negotiation worked. With mistakes? Of course! You're omissioning me? Of course! Any failures? Of course! Nevertheless, this tough negotiation achieved a much better agreement than the ones that the previous governments had brought with the memoranda. This is because this agreement is described and there are cracks which can vary in class - because that is our difference, and I will explain that - the particular agreement in favour of the social majority affected by the crisis. Besides, let's not hide it. Our differences with the opposition are classic. The opposition defends those social classes which, forty years, were their friends, were the ones helping them. On the other hand, we defend those classes, those groups in society that have been on the margin for forty years. For the gentlemen of the New Democracy and the previous Minister, Mr Brutsis, as an employee in the country, consider him working for 400 euros, 12 hours a day and uninsured. In fact, they also call him "Bouchera". On the other hand, gentlemen of the New Democracy and Anti-Population, these people are not considered workers for us. That is why we are fighting against unemployment. Besides - and these are not my words - unemployment in our country and in Europe too can be described as a gorilla, who is in a living room full of glasses and, if he wakes up, will lure us all. That is why the question of unemployment cannot be solved solely on the basis of indicators. That is what Mr Brutsis did with the voucher programmes, he was trying to reduce the index and not really to solve the unemployment issue. I had the luck of listening very closely to the speech of comrade Dozen on ethics and the Left. Some of the opposition considered that they should respond to the morality of the Left. I think that the people who have former comrades, the people who have supporters, the people who coexisted politically and here with people who are now in prison, accused of armaments, who are accused of using their position, from ministers to mayors, cannot raise their hand and show the Left in terms of their morality. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition says to admit that this agreement was inevitable. I would remind you that this opposition, the Chiefs of Anti-Population in our country two months ago, when the Prime Minister was negotiating in a room for seventeen hours, they said, they were urging the Prime Minister to sign whatever they give him, no matter what he finds in front of him. So for us, that doesn't mean negotiation. We promised that we would not take a step behind our election commitments. Ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing most of the Members of the government - it is time for work, it is time to defend all those and those who supported us. And this is the great social majority, they are farmers, they are the unemployed, they are the young, they are all those who have been patient for five years. In this battle, and we parliamentarians, not only the government, must help, we must help, we must support, we must propose things, because we are the ears and mouths of every citizen here, in the Greek Parliament. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to refer to those generations, to the people who took part in the Genoa movement in 2001, to the anti-Article 16 movement, to all those Gregoropoulos who went out on the streets, who claimed, to all those who came out on the squares and claimed a better future. And it is certain that SYRIZA and this government defend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u219	Mr Yoyakas Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Greeks gave with their vote a second chance to SYRIZA to have the first say in the governance of the country. In other words, they have asked Mr Tsipras to assume his responsibilities, namely to implement the agreement he signed, an agreement that he and his government have led to the successive failures of his and his government throughout the period before. They did not rush to close the last evaluation of the previous programme, when the climate was still positive for Mr. Tsipras. They finally requested an extension of the programme without funding, drying the public funds, to serve the country's loan needs. They failed to close an agreement while we were in a rescue programme and so the liquidity supply to the banks was cut through the ELA. They imposed Capital Controls, which strangled businesses, brought new packages to the market and added thousands of our fellow citizens to the already scary number of unemployed. They brought a referendum that divided society and exacerbated any credibility of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence towards our partners. So, instead of a sustainable, socially just agreement with a development plan, as the Prime Minister said here in Step eight months ago, they led us to a conspiracy without conditions, signing the heaviest third memorandum. In view of the threat of an unscrupulous disaster New Democracy and the other pro-European bloc forces have set back so that the country can have another chance, the opportunity to emerge from the time of the memoranda and the vicious circle of austerity and recession, to get away from the danger of Grexit. Thanks to this responsible attitude, we can still, as a country, claim to return to normality. Can this national effort be successfully crowned? It will depend on three basic conditions. First of all, we need a government with administrative and management capacity. Secondly, the Memorandum must be implemented and, at the same time, battle must be fought to replace certain measures with other measures having equivalent effect. We cannot, for example, say that we are interested in development in the primary sector, but we cannot accept the sudden increase in farmers' taxation. A third condition for success is that those brave changes, which will serve an extroverted development model, which will bring private investment to the country, which will encourage the creation of strong production units and give incentives to young entrepreneurs, will encourage them, which the Prime Minister promised in yesterday's Programmatic Declarations, which will try to give a new perspective. It's something we wish for. Of course, as long as this prospect can be achieved through state procedures, which, as has been promised, can provide flexibility. The other question, ladies and gentlemen, is whether the new coup d'état brings about even one of the conditions I mentioned. Judging by what he has done and not done in the past few months, it is clear that he does not have what he needs, because it is the government of almost zero work and failed choices, from negotiation and the memorandum to education and immigration, because he has stated that he disagrees with the memorandum that she signed, as the excellent Minister of Finance has just said to us, who is trying best to deal with tax evasion. But he told us that they were taking steps and actions that do not believe them. So, dear Minister, how can we apply them when we do not believe them? Because we have never been able to prepare equivalent measures, and the more we can say them so hard we can look for them and find them. Not only does this government have a plan for national reconstruction, but it continues to play with delays in the exploitation of public property. Another pond topic is the ESDP. From this step, please, I too, as soon as possible, can run the ponds that are ponding. We have major and important projects in Thesprotia, which are delayed due to the developments and the delay of the ESDP. We can talk about growth and tourism, about transport, but the expansion of the port of Igoumenitsa is being cancerd. It is also important to support agricultural sectors, aquaculture, which is an important production sector in our prefecture. Above all, there is a priority for placing and licensing in order to develop new crops. An important issue that also concerns us is the equipment and medical and nursing coverage of the new wing of the General Hospital of Friends and the operation of the Emergency Department in Igoumenitsa. In conclusion, I would like to say that all of us, ladies and gentlemen, are aware of the difficulties that are coming. Our prolongation will continue to show a sense of responsibility, as it did last August, with political courage, creative criticism and realistic interventions. We owe it not only to those who trusted us, but to the entire Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka. Mr. Zouraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u222	Mr. President, my respects. Colleagues and colleagues, four thousand years, of course, of Greek culture and education cannot be summed up in six minutes. I am going to talk about passions today and only about one chapter, because I hope - at least the two of the three Ministers on education and education are old friends, and the third will soon be - to help to alleviate the third Asia Minor disaster. The books that entered the 2006 reform, the four of the primary school and the three of the high school, are and are a minor catastrophe of the Greek language. We all know that, at least by the "Soft man" of Plato, that reason and mind. In these books, there is no reason, and I will give you a few examples - but I will tell you this: do you know how they teach for 13-year-old children in the Faculty - please - the protection of verbs? How? It's not possible, you'll have four brains: by instruction to use an electric coffee maker! On one page there is the coffee maker image and on the other there are the instructions for use "we go up, turn, do etc". Coffee, 12 years old! This dummy meter of the then pedagogical Institute is now in use. Fortunately, too many teachers do not apply it. I will show you some other examples. You know that, thankfully until 2006, in these four grades of primary school, we had forty-four primary songs. I will not break open doors of course if I tell you that today's primary language is the municipal song, not only for the wonderful beauty of the municipal song, but also for its amazing morality. When "The Destroy makes war with brides and vases", when, "the barracks of the earth are cold," when you have this uncooked beauty, twenty-seven recipes come! All in all time, of course, what are you going to say? "I took the parrot, I hit three eggs, did I omelets like the minds of the Pedagogical Institute" and then what did I do? I threw it away, of course, because you won't be able to eat it. They dared to do - others had dared - censorship at Kolokotronis. In the second grade they have the wonderful anthem, the reason for the children in Pyuka, Kolokotronis. It is a founding reason for the neo-Greek culture that the speech of Kolokotronis in the children of Pyuka is the founding reason. After the phrase "The Moslems", Minister, the moslems of the "trisilium mafiology" of the institute were cut. Do you know why they cut it? Because it had to be politically correct, because it says "the Turks, the Muslims, came and wanted to change the faith of the people and cut off the languages of the people. One language was cut and the other came and made his cross." We didn't like this because it's not a repentant, this bourgeoisie of repentance. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Forty-four municipal songs have disappeared with cooking recipes! Now let me give you a model bourgeoistine. Be careful, it's this, it's eight phrases, it's all in an overriding speech, that is, it doesn't have a subordinate reason. There is no fundamental development of thought without the prerogative, when it was produced here, brother, which is the subject matter. Watch out. How did the Shelitis talk? I, Prime Minister Simitis, went there tomorrow, then I went down, then I went up, we left. Extreme reason, be careful, and foolishometer of course, and you will see that with Kolokotronis again has them. "Great! Today, in the class of music, it was perfect!" for children of 12 years of age, who must learn the subject matter of the primary language and the single Greek language. "Because tomorrow we are starting rehearsals for the 25th of March. We'll rehearse the choir, we'll miss lessons." That's all we can talk about. To a 12-year-old child, you don't go in because you're going to miss lessons. Between you and me, yes, adults. "We have a kind of little choir at school and some three hundred people and it's fun. The repertoire will be the usual: Free besieged and give him." The foolish meter, this savage who wrote this phrase "Free besieged and give him" had to know that one of these free besieged have the comfort of being this dane and writing these things. The Education Institute, however, writes them and approves them. "Ange, only in my dream will you give me your wings?" Hey, it's shikir now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr Zouraris. Mr. Haritsis, State Secretary for Economy, Development and Tourism, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u224	For 12 minutes. The previous President-in-Office told me twelve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u225	The Deputy Ministers have 12 minutes, the Undersecretaries have eight minutes. There's gonna be some understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u226	At least you'll show a tolerance, I hope. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try in my brief speech to refer to the facts of our Government, from January onwards, on the management of the Structural Funds programmes and, of course, on the planning of the next period. You will, however, allow me to begin by describing the situation that we received in January in relation to the 2007-2013 NRP programmes, as well as the new programming period 2014-2020. This has been extremely problematic for a number of reasons relating to the wider economic policy and to the planning of the programmes themselves. First of all, overall, the development planning of the previous governments was on a sound macroeconomic basis as it was horrificly addressing the top issue of the government debt arrangement. On the contrary, from the very first moment we say that debt is declining the economy and destroying the productive potential. The central element of this old design was the internal devaluation strategy. Economic policy over the past five years focused on limiting one single of the variables in the production process, labour costs. For our part, we are seeking a shift in the activities of high added value and in the new innovative production systems with export activities and import substitution, which will enhance recovery dynamics. There has also been a slowdown in the Public Investment Programme, which has been dealt with in some cases as a luxury. On the contrary, we believe that the Public Investment Programme should be strengthened and, in particular, the part relating to national funds and through this, the recovery of autonomy in budgetary and development policy. The design of the NRP's own programmes was incomplete and was often based not on economic or social criteria, but on the service of customer relations, with the aim of developing high absorption indicators on the basis of an ineffective overcompensation of the programmes. We do not regard high absorption as an end in itself, but an important tool for implementing our development strategy and producing a strong economic and social result. In particular, for the NRPs of the new Programming Period 2014-2020, the wrong impression has been developed that these were a little - very ready to begin in early 2015 and were frozen due to our mistakes or uncertainties. We must be clear on this point. The NRV 2014-2020 was typically ready for implementation in early 2015. In fact, the technical environment and its parameters had not been developed, which would mark a state of real readiness and effective activation of the programmes. In particular, the Monitoring Committees for the new programmes, namely the main advisory bodies available to us with the economic and productive bodies, were not set up and convened, while at the same time a large part of the secondary law required for the activation of actions was not in existence or was at a primary stage. These, as well as other critical deficiencies in which I unfortunately do not have time to comment in detail, as well as the great degree of immunity of the new period, were inherited as a situation by the previous governments. But what have we done in the last eight months? In order to address these problems, we have had to emphasise the resolution of the programmes for 2007-2013, separating first of all what projects can serve priorities for the next programming period and they can be transferred to it. For what could not be transported, we have sought additional funding from national resources, using domestic and European credit institutions. Finally, we went ahead with the achievement of projects of dubious feasibility and low added value. In parallel to this process of consolidation of the programmes for the period 2007-2013, the activation of the essential factors for the implementation of the NRP 2014-2020 programmes had to be progressed. All the preparatory actions proceeded normally within timescales. The programmes are now fully operational and are already in place to issue calls for these new programmes. At the same time, we intensified the flow of payments in order to tackle liquidity problems, so that we close at the end of September with expenditure for the two-month period of August - September, which exceeded the amount of EUR 1 billion. Finally, after a tough negotiation with the European Commission, we have - and today in the European Parliament - managed to go through the relevant arrangements - to increase to 100% the Community financing of the programmes for the period 2007-2013 and to double from 7% to 14% the advance we receive for the programmes for the period 2014-2020. This is how we ensure additional liquidity of more than EUR 2 billion over the next few months. That is how we will achieve the ambitious but realistic, in our view, aim to move to the economy through the Structural Funds programmes of EUR 4.5 billion by the end of the year. That's what happened to this day. But it has to do with how we go from now on. For our Government - and this must be clear - development planning is not exhausted within the ESDP. Instead, we are dealing with the ESDP programmes as a subset of the overall development plan. In order to implement this plan, of course, there should be additional resources. At the same time, with the NRP funds, it is necessary to activate the private sector. First of all, the funding channel must be reopened by the domestic banking system. This, of course, will be ensured by the banks' capital support, the recapitalisation process, which will take place in the next few years. We should also make full use of the international private and public credit system. There has already been a very serious cooperation with both the European Investment Bank and the World Bank and other international credit institutions, a cooperation which, among other things, is very critical for our country's successful participation in the Juncker investment project. Central, however, in our development planning is the change in the productive model, in the direction of strengthening innovation and extroverty, always in the light of rapid growth in employment, upgrading work and respect for the historical and natural environment. The ultimate priority is to halt the trend of fleeing abroad the most dynamic part of Greek society, the new scientists. Our design has a significant difference compared to the past. It does not focus on large pharaonic projects, but on strengthening mild and socially useful infrastructures. We are talking about small and medium-sized well-designed infrastructures, which are drastically changing the development fate of a place. Another important priority is the ecological dimension of planning, promoting the integration of infrastructures in the field of the environment and amending the model of energy production and consumption. And here the incentives are multiple and are linked both to the treatment of energy costs and production, which in Greece is high and also due to waste, but also to the country's contribution to tackling climate change by strengthening renewable energy sources and saving and energy upgrade policies. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality of the crisis requires part of the plan to focus on dealing with poverty and social exclusion, on supporting weaker groups. That is why our priority is to support social and solidarity economic operations. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. All the above priorities are reflected in the sectoral structure of our planning, which includes eight main branches: agriculture, biosciences - medicines, information and communication technologies, energy, environment and sustainable development, transport, materials and construction, tourism, culture, creative industry. All this requires, of course, time to implement and deliver, one year in four years' time. However, because the needs of the economy are absolutely pressing, we will present the first samples of writing in the near future by publishing the first pre-publishments for the new programmes. Special attention will be paid to tourism. In the next few days, an invitation will be issued for actions to modernise and improve the services provided with potentially benefiting small and very small tourist enterprises. Through this aim is to turn the industry towards softer forms of tourism development. Action will also be presented - developing healthy neonates of entrepreneurship. Emphasis will be placed on innovative projects and on job creation. The budget for this programme is EUR 120 million and it will involve up to two and a half thousand very small and small enterprises. A third action to be taken directly concerns tertiary education graduates in order to pursue a professional activity related to their specificity. In the next few years, other corresponding employment support measures of a total budget of EUR 230 million will be followed, involving sixty-five thousand unemployed. In addition, within the next month, we are setting up a Private Debt Management Secretariat to inform and provide consumer advisory services - borrowers and coordinate the work of all the co-responsible bodies. Finally, in 2015, there will be the first action in favour of the development of the social economy, a sector that thrives on other European countries, but in our country it is taking its first steps. In cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, we will activate the funds available to create new jobs, by strengthening the establishment and operation of social enterprises. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Finally, all this constitutes a grid of interventions for a structured and planned start of the process of rescheduling and rescheduling the Greek economy. The resources available are, of course, finite, but political initiatives and targeted interventions will compensate for financial stability. Such economic and development planning, which combines the daring with realism and radical areas with the reform initiatives, we consider it necessary to get the country out of the deadlock and lead it safely to the challenges and opportunities of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Haritsi. In order to speak and express as many Members as possible, plenary this morning decided that time for the Undersecretaries is eight minutes, that for the alternates it is twelve minutes, that for the ministers it is fifteen minutes and that for all the MPs it is six minutes. The request of the Bureau and of my own is that we all respect the right to speak as many Members as possible and to keep up to time. Because when we talk more, someone else will talk less. You understand that. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not taken us many days - not even two weeks - to understand that the new, second-left government will take the lead in the credibility and effectiveness of the first. We do not know exactly what surprises this new, but little renewed to people, attitudes and ideas, if it will lead us to new victories and triumphs, such as those of the unforgettable summer of 2015. One thing is certain, that it fulfils all the conditions. The yeast for new adventures, because of its untreated momentum towards populism, exists. The experience and competences of the members of the government are well known to everyone. In so far as yesterday's Programmatic Declarations of the Prime Minister constitute a first sign of writing, the government shows that it is doomed to repeat the mistakes of the recent past. Exempted from the suspensions of any bourgeois code, since, as SYRIZA has known, he has made his place of the well-known Leninist position that civil values, such as truth and honesty, should not stand in the way of maintaining power, Mr. Tsipras did not hesitate yesterday to repeat inaccurate and coarse lies, to display the white one and to conceal his serious responsibilities for the economic destruction of the country in the last eight months. In his speech he raised three issues: the settlement of debt, the recapitalisation of banks and the attraction of investments. It seems that the debt settlement will become the new "great" idea of SYRIZA after the slit and renegotiation of the memorandums. It is regrettable that a government that, with its disastrous negotiation, increased the country's lending needs by EUR 45 billion, maintained its pseudo-agonist rhetoric and confrontation with its partners around this issue. It is disgraceful for the public that a government should be baptised because it allegedly achieved a reduction in the primary surpluses - due, of course, to the return of the Greek economy to the recession, which also appears from the preliminary draft budget - when this reduction increased the country's credit requirements by 19 billion. Not to mention, of course, the disastrous policy of depleting public funds, which add 8 billion new loans, according to the International Monetary Fund report, which the government officials remember when they are concerned. He said other voluntary inaccuracies Mr. Tsipras said yesterday. Considers, for example, that today's profile does not allow comfortable access to markets before 2022. This is, of course, a maximum misunderstanding. Greece with the debt mountain for its service at the moment has the lowest share of GDP throughout the eurozone, that is, just 2.3%. In 2022 it appears supposedly problematic, for then the interest of the grace periods will appear capitalized. However, this issue is considered by all the partners and the market as disgusting. It is well known that the EUR 45 billion in 2022 will be made, with the conditions known to be favourable. Once again, SYRIZA's famous negotiating effort is to propose what the partners have already proposed and agreed. The second question is the recapitalisation of the banks. The only thing that the Prime Minister made yesterday is that he will dismantle the administrations of the banks. But he did not say a word if he intends to protect the current shareholders, namely the Greek State and the hundreds of thousands of small shareholders. He did not say a word about the role of the Financial Stability Fund, because he should know that the assessment of the administrations of the systemic banks will be carried out by the ESM, which will sterilise the banks from any government intervention, which means that the most likely - and here we need to say a truth here - is to see the administrations of banks appointed by the ESM. Of course we should remind the government and the Greek people that the systemic banks were recapitalised in June 2013 to 25 billion of the CFSF, i.e. loans received by the taxpayers of Greek citizens. In August 2015, after the referendum and the great capital controls imposed by the government, the value of those shares is estimated at 3,7 billion. In practice, until the new recapitalisation of the banks, this value will have been zeroed. The temporary debt of 25 billion in 2013, unfortunately, has become permanent. And today SYRIZA comes with this policy to add 25 billion more. This is the way, ladies and gentlemen, in which the previous government of SYRIZA has effectively abandoned the Greek debt and ensured the stability of the banking system, just to play Europe's redeemer. Finally, the Prime Minister spoke for the first time so emphatically about the need to attract investment. In this respect, possible investment could be said that the actual Programming Declarations by the Prime Minister were not made yesterday, but one week ago, in the United States, where nothing was said about taxation, the reduction of bureaucracy, the deprivation of the entrepreneurship that has been taking place in all previous years. It referred yesterday to the creation of a body to support investment. And I put aside the fact that this is not the primary issue. I wonder: has it not been informed that this body exists and is called the Invest in Greece? If the government wants to put its seal in good shape, let it upgrade or amend it with regard to its operation. He doesn't have to create an extra. That requires a plan and, of course, that government does not have it. Ladies and gentlemen, ignorance is no longer an argument for anyone. Tactical without strategy may have benefited SYRIZA and led him back to power, but he has burdened both the economy and society and created a new deadlock. The Government is asked, first and foremost, to implement the memorandum it has proposed and agreed, to accumulate credibility and confidence within and outside the country, to respect the budgetary objectives, to make use of European resources and to adopt structural changes. If she succeeds, then she can use her credibility and find budgetary equivalents that release productive powers and satisfy the sense of social justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. All this, of course, presupposes that SYRIZA will become a genuine reformist force. Those who are now, of course, hoping for this, are obviously referring to the wrong people, the wrong moment and the wrong way. For all these reasons, I do not have a vote of confidence, of course, in the present government. And to understand, ladies and gentlemen, how this House, the specific groups, support the government, is also the official list of speakers, where only sixty-four Members from SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks have spoken to support this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mrs Aylonitou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to my Vice-Presidents came to my mind a mandarin that you say and written about today's political juncture: 'Those who say 'you can't', I tell you, are the ones who are shaking if you can't!' The parties to the old political system ruled the country forty years and with their government they brought it to the edge of the cliff. It's not enough, of course, that's all. Then they moved on to the country a step forward and threw it at the edge of the memoranda, while, ladies and gentlemen, then, there was the possibility of unilateral debt reduction within the framework of European Union rules. Finally, the evil of five years of mismanagement of the crisis at the expense of workers and all this, so as not to harm the established interests they serve. But they come today, because in four successive elections, the people rejected them, and they also demand the change, and they shake the finger! Why has the SYRIZA Government not been able to correct all the mistakes they have made for forty years? Why is unemployment - which was reached in the glossy 27% - currently at 25% and the SYRIZA Government has not managed to zero it? Why doesn't SYRIZA choose to cover up their scandals, like the ones of the Agricultural Bank of Greece - you know these five billion dollars. with the sea-lovings, the hundreds of sea-lovings, which are within them and those of their parties, or like those of the Post Office, where their sea-lovings inflated their deposits of various executives in foreign banks? And above all, the main question that burns them is why SYRIZA does not choose to rule with them and continue their destructive policy. So I'll tell you why. We have arrived here from the increased debt created by those who currently blame us, EUR 360 billion. the account. We have set our main objective of achieving the reduction of this debt by creditors, because it is not sustainable. We have negotiated to accept the possibility of reducing the debt immediately. We have managed to place the International Monetary Fund in public for debt reduction. We have achieved significant international support in this effort. In order to achieve this, we have, of course, compromised others. We have accepted a hard austerity agreement, because it contains the basic condition that the country needs, namely the prospect of a direct debt reduction. We are now moving on this road with a fresh people's mandate, on the basis of our position that debt is not sustainable. So what are the parties that have brought us here and who have full responsibility for the government debt account at the moment? They undermine national debt reduction efforts, insisting that the debt is sustainable. Do they believe that? Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, that the International Monetary Fund does not know what it says when it insists that Greece needs a haircut? I doubt it. But you fear that we will succeed where you have failed. You feared it would appear that you have operated the crisis against the people and for the benefit of some special interests. Only to take a look at the data of the National Statistical Office, will it find who raised the burden of the crisis, when the increase in taxes in the years of the memorandum arrived for the world of work 270% compared with 9% for the most prosperous Greeks. You are still afraid that after this you will not be able to continue serving these special interests that you represent. So you bring in this Chamber the destruction. Why? How do we do it? - There's something you should say. As long as it doesn't suit you to tell the truth, you say what suits you. But we will move forward. We do not serve special interests and we can fight corruption, combat strife, fight tax and smuggling, fight your client state and interests, Greek and foreign, behind the crisis. We only serve the interests of the Greek people and this - how do we do it? - It scares you. But we can have one thing to tell you, we'll make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs Alonitou. Mr. Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u232	When you want something too much and when what you seek meets with the soul of the world, then the whole universe conspires to succeed. So Paulo Kolios wrote to "Alchemistis" and we want to guide the path of reconstruction, regeneration of a highly indebted and impoverished beautiful country, built by nature, with enormous comparative advantages, with great wealth of renewable energy, with ancient civilization, with abundant monuments of the global cultural heritage, with gifted human resources. The Greek people understood it and assigned us this mission for the second time. We know the adversities, we know the landscape in which we will attempt to reconstruct. We know that the agreement is painful. We no longer have delusions, we have no room for new mistakes and omissions. We know that we will not convince with our theory or with our Programmatic Declarations alone, but with the unity of theory and action. The people want to put the finger on the type of sunshine. Now he has chosen us, because of his accumulated wrath toward the old vicious system of power that has boasted the country. We must also note that, in order to gain confidence, we must provide further evidence, far beyond what we have given us in the first seven months that we have ruled. What exactly do we mean by parallel to the Memorandum? What do we mean by renegotiation of the open issues of the memorandum? What exactly are the measures we will take to compensate for the costs of the forty-eight prerequisites required for the first positive assessment of the implementation of the agreement? The Prime Minister yesterday and the ministers are presenting our planning with their Programmatic Declarations. Many wonder: But is it possible to take compensatory measures in the wild conditions of the third Memorandum of Understanding? The agreement that was made, objectively, managed to improve the debt service by 2018, as it replaces current commitments with new ones offering new opportunities. Alexis Tsipras yesterday announced a tank of equivalent measures. You, colleagues of the Opposition, what exactly do you propose? You have a lot of thoughts about what should be replaced. In what way? Have we heard what exactly the compensation is? But listen to some others about the possibility of a parallel programme for the reconstruction of the country, which will be ambitious to find a complete contrast and a break with all the practices of the old system of power. The recovery strategy of the Greek economy takes into account the need for social justice between and within generations. The budgetary constraints have imposed difficult choices and it is therefore important that the burden of adjusting to share in all social strata, taking into account the ability to pay. The priority is to deal with tax evasion, fraud and strategies against inconsistent debtors, because they are burdened by honest citizens and honest companies who pay taxes and their loans and so on. How do you like that? It is one of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms of the Memorandum of Understanding. The text of the agreement, which some - in particular those who provoked for it all - consider it to be tax-fixing, material and more burdensome, states that the conditions associated with facilitating the financial assistance covering the period up to 2018 will be updated taking into account the progress made on a quarterly basis and will be fully specified in detail and timetables for these policy measures. The text also states that in order to help people return to employment and prevent long-term unemployment, the authorities, in close cooperation with the European partners, will initiate measures to stimulate employment by 50 000 people, with a view to the long-term unemployed and so on. What, then, is prohibiting the implementation of a parallel alternative programme of productive, administrative, development reconstruction of the country, the expansion of cooperative logic, which will have unlocked the creative forces of citizens in every area through their access to decision-making, for the production of quality and healthy food in Greece? [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What is forbidden for a self-government that will have as a model the example of Anabras, a village with zero unemployment, with a high standard of living, sustainable development, wind park, two full-day schools, a free gym? What prevents us from giving government priority, really emblematic, intervention in health? We call upon you to conclude: Firstly, to vote in the House on the draft law 'Urgent arrangements for universal coverage of the population and support for the public health system'. Secondly, the organisation of a primary health system by adopting a draft law which will provide for the reorientation of the health issue towards the holistic approach to health and disease, the organisation of health structures in the neighbourhoods, urban health centers made up of a multidisciplinary team and family doctors and, thirdly, the implementation of the prerequisites and time-limited government commitments included in the Medical Care Agreement, in which is the establishment of a participatory management system and a worthwhile management system of hospitals, health regions of the ERC. Ladies and gentlemen, we will win tomorrow because we are sure that what we want will lead the universe to conspire in order to succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Papadopoulos. Mr. Karakostas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u234	The previous speaker raised the question: 'What do you propose, colleagues of the opposition, to the left-wing memorandum?' So listen to the nationalists' answer. Incapable of ensuring social well-being, the right of the Greeks to work and dignity, incapable of ensuring the protection of our citizens and our national interests, the anti-national state of the monuments and hotelry is unnecessary, which must be eliminated for the good of our country and people. The existence of the corrupt regime only serves the tax policy of international loan sharks and, furthermore, the violent repression of national resistance, manifested by the illegal and unconstitutional political persecutions of the People's Nationalist movement. The state in its present form is blowing and hostile to the Greeks. This is not the case in every action and in every individual area of its influence. This is an anti-national structure, which predominates foreign centres and whose decisions perform the domestic manikins of the oligarchy of wealth. The maintenance of this state is in the interests of the foreigners and their underprivileged in Greece, who are rich in the misery and impoverishment of the Greek people. The absence of merit, justice, equivalency are only some of the characteristics of this state. Deprivation, suicide, death in cruel and inhuman living conditions are some of its dramatic consequences. This social reality, both the deadly and the state-owned left, attempt to show up to the success of a policy which leads to slow and torture, but certainly to the extinction of the Greeks. The presence of the People's Association - Golden Dawn in the Greek Parliament and its dynamic national and social interventions prevented him from being the worst for the Greek people. The political preparation that was set against the movement of Greek nationalists is precisely aimed at eliminating the last national burial against plundering and plundering the people and our country. This fact is now easily distinguished by ever wider popular masses, who are experiencing the hatred of the anti-national and corrupt regime in their minds. Inevitably, the support of the tested people to the People's Association of Golden Dawn will grow together and the panic of the tyrants of the Greek nation will increase. The graduation of slavery lies in the palmist and universal awareness of the role of the anti-national regime. Democracy, which the anti-national state claims, is only a failed attempt to cover up and conceal the betrayals and crimes committed in the backs of our people. The leaders of the impoverishment of the Greeks and of any anti-constitutional method taken by the country are those who are today being promoted as patrons of civilization and law. And that is enough to help further depreciate their tyranny on the part of our people. Golden Dawn, whether they like it or not, is now inevitable to prevail. And it is inevitable, because it is now a massive and only popular movement with political positions, which are not projected by the militant media, which touch and express the vast majority of our people. However, also for those who partly disagree with our movement's political positions, the Golden Dawn has been subject to the fair and enforced punishment of the corruption and crimes of a regime, which has been in power by means of a vehicle of falsehood, rosés and, more than ever, fear for forty consecutive years. And that truth cannot be erased from the heart of the Greeks, no paid convoy of the journalistic rope. If, therefore, the anti-constitutional arch expresses the forefront of the maintenance of a corrupt and anti-national state, then the Golden Dawn can only express the historical response of a proud people fighting for its survival against the invasion of the memorials and the invasion of illegal immigrants. Today a people who do not tolerate foreign offenses, nor the rajadism of their domestic tyrants, is prone to the flags of popular nationalism to wave proudly, conquering with unspeakable sacrifices more and more political territory. Our opponents know we're their fair punishment. So it remains for the majority of our people to understand that the sooner it responds to our national call, the easier it will get rid of its potential. So there's nothing left but what? To realize the majority of our people who, in my opinion, already believes. That the Golden Dawn is the last hope of our great nation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The only dilemma, which stands up against each Greek and every Greek, is not meaningless and undeniable "liberalism or Marxism", but the critical and true "democratic nationalism or barbarism".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. Karakosta. Mr Baltas, Minister for Culture and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, culture begins with a plate of food, a roof over the head and even a ranch in hospitals. I say this because there, along with the above, is always, even in the most difficult circumstances, the production of culture. A song, a rhythm, a sketch, some lyrics express in these last conditions pain, hope, anger, prospect for tomorrow. And I start from here, because we must not forget that the humanitarian crisis that has taken place in recent years is continuing. We may be relatively vigilant about our still existence and relatively great privileges, but not forget that there are our fellow people and not just refugees, who currently do not have the above and yet produce their culture. The Ministry of Culture is already able to take an initiative. In the solidarity card founded by the first bill of the first SYRIZA government, the free entry to museums and archaeological sites can be added, the possibility for those who have or do not have the dish and the roof over the head can be enjoyed and thought about our cultural treasures. At the same time, this is not at the expense of the state budget. On the contrary, it can be done on the basis of an increase in the state budget in this respect, because at the same time the Ministry of Culture has already launched an increase in tickets in the archaeological sites, which is currently unacceptablely low. Also, the online ticket, according to which these revenues are increasing and systemic, and through there they can be found even equivalent - because the Ministry of Culture is at the same time a producer of wealth in the narrow sense of this country - as a contribution to the economy and above all as a contribution to the parallel of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education with the famous 23% in private education. I start from here, because culture is, in fact, a treaty of life. Culture is how we behave, how we deal with others, our adversaries and our relatives, how we deal with things around us, if you like, where we throw our butt away, what we permanent smokers, and how we respect each other, or even away from us. From there and beyond culture on this basis is how we express ourselves and how we create. From there culture begins with the narrower and more familiar version of its term. How do we express ourselves and how do we create? Perhaps the key word here is the word'stress'. Anyone who strives to create and express themselves feels muscles, feels critically a tension, because he struggles with himself, with his past, with his fellow scientists leaving his own mark on what he wants to produce. He struggles with his environment, with the previous ones, with the influences he has accepted, so that he himself leaves a new mark and all that constitutes an opaque tension. Those who have dealt with cultural creations, whether in introductory forms or without, feel it. This is something deeper, because it is what it is and what it wants to be, how it is reflected in what it wants to do, whether it is about one art, the other or any culture. The tension is a difficult word, because it can have two different meanings. One of the most positive points here is the intensity that has created a passage, which creates a step above, which creates the new that is reflected in the history of culture and over the centuries. Or vice versa can become a controversy between artists and artistic schools, it can become even worse, which tension poles may disappear together. On this basis, on the basis of the word 'intensive', I think the whole 'is' can be captured and the course of culture, because 'is' and the course of culture can be formulated, even artificially, in a speech such as this, through certain distinct tensions. And I'm starting: Voltage one: between the small and the big. I'm starting with the big one. The great, for example, of culture concerns infrastructure. Great infrastructure. Greece is paradoxically, for some reasons it is currently endowed with large infrastructures. In Athens alone, there is the Contemporary Art Museum, there is the Cultural Centre of the Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" with its extremely generous offer, there is the new one that will open up a Museum of Contemporary Art, there is an entire infrastructure in Piraeus, there is the Stavros Literature and Arts House, there are powerful and rich in infrastructure institutions. If you want, we can look a little more schematically at these large institutions on two axes. The axis of Syngrou, passing through the Gallery and the Conservative and reaching the Megaron and the Piraeus axis that starts from the port - which is where we need to do some things - is slowly reaching the whole part of Gazi and all the infrastructure there. In addition to the large infrastructures, there are at the same time small infrastructure which is missing. Small infrastructures are the ones needed to express themselves and to create smaller groups across the whole of the arts and amateur efforts that they want to elementarily show themselves and them around them and the entire Greek people as much as possible and beyond the borders what they can achieve and how they can progress. It's our pleasure to help in this part, because apparently, there are buildings that can host in a sharing regime and intact such efforts. Small infrastructure, small productions, large infrastructures, large productions. In both cases there is a demand of quality and of course adequacy with the demands of the country at any time. Adequate with regard to the demands of artistic streams in all forms of art and of every time and, of course, the need and demand for tension between the young and the great not to become destructive. Not to blame the Mansion because it only does - in in introductory terms - 'high art', not to snoop smaller productions of music or elsewhere, not to make the Mansion something that, say, will rule out, because it will only have small ones and will end up in one form of tension and continue to produce important things. And vice versa, small things can be hosted in large infrastructures like the Megaron. In the same context as the young and the old one, we must not forget the same amateur, the non-professional. With the schools and the cultural production they themselves are doing - even with theatre contests that they have and happen to have a very great resonance at times - to try to create a closer link between culture and education, beginning with the small classes and trying to create a zone of culture in schools so that children start learning not only the result of an art but also the whole process of production. Thus, children will understand the hard work needed to reach where the admired actor or the great pianist fascinating them and hence fascinating them in the right sense in relation to the achievements of culture. Intensity first, then, small and large. Tension second. Centre and periphery. Large cities such as Athens and Thessaloniki and smaller cities with their own production. For example, Kalamata has emerged in a world - wide dance center. But not just large and small cities. There are communities and villages with important productions. My cuff comes to mind some villages of Corfu with their own philharmonic, each of which is added to the three big philharmonics of the city doing something like el satema, to remember Venezuela. And so tension between the small and the great that requires not only the diffusion from the great to the small whole cultural creation, so that it reaches every corner of Greece and educate, to entertain with the literality of the term and not just to entertain, but also vice versa. For culture is also produced in small communities and has the need to appear and claim its presence in larger centres. The centre and the region should not only look at it in terms of city and crowds of people, but look at it as a centre and a region in the big cities themselves, because that is where things have started to get confused. In the very centre of large cities there is a lot of region, not only because of refugees and immigrants, because poverty zones have also been surrounded by centres in the most traditional sense. There is a great deal of tension between the centre and the region, and there there is a great scope to enrich from the cultural contribution of refugees and migrants, thus learning new cultures, and there even tons fall at the level of real solidarity and cultural level. Third tension: the outside and the media, through the country's borders, outside the country's borders. We know that Greece is a small country. We know that it has a wealth of production that is very great and in very large forms of art. We are still being persecuted by a complex of a few provincialisms. We should not be afraid of the art that comes from the large cities when it comes in the right ways and not just for reasons of ghosthood. Here too, large institutions can help greatly. But there is also the reverse: there is now the possibility of our production of culture - I repeat again in all the arts - to host and plunder abroad outside the country's borders. I'm not just talking about Europe. I'm talking about too many things at the same time. I am, of course, talking about the exhibitions of our cultural wealth that travel around the world. I'm talking about a theatre that has found a blossom in Greece in recent years. I'm talking about visuals. I am talking about the cinema, which has also begun to show their international face. I'm talking about photography. I'm talking about dancing. I'm talking about everything. So we also need to find out how we manage this tension properly, without indulgence and without arrogance, recognizing others, those who are better than us, that they are better than us, but without undermining our own business and production at all. Finally, there is a tension between yesterday and today, which may be the most decisive, because this is about specific content. I'm talking about cultural heritage. Man is the only animal inherited, he is the only animal that can exploit the legacy, he is the only animal that has historical memory. That is why it is a natural blow - you feel it very deeply - when you see the disasters of the monuments in Syria. It's unbearable, almost as unbearable as executions there. In this sense, the protection of cultural heritage is a protection of memory, provided that we understand that memory as, not slavely, in terms of such a way that we can create further on this basis. Here again, because the country is truly gifted: the whole of the so-called Western civilization is supported ideologically, theoretically, thus culturally, in the ancient Greek heritage. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. Since the 19th century, the entire Western so-called civilization has been supported, in one form or another, in a reading of ancient Greek culture and the tension between the new and the old is an tension that crosses all forms of art in all the countries of the West and especially in Greece. From Seferis and Richos to Tsarouha and contemporary painting, visual production, everyone is reconstructed by what it means to live in this country, what it means to be under the Acropolis, what it means and how it can be created new cultural production on the basis of this strange, substantial, deep relationship with a heritage that we do not take passively. I conclude: all this can sound abstractly. We're talking about Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Culture is not the body that makes taste, imposes aesthetics, shows what is one or the other - let's say - an aesthetic school that needs to be projected, how to read the past in an alpha or beta way. That's not it at all. The Ministry of Culture is a term, a method, means - as long as we have material means at least, all the rest we can have without material at times - so that artistic creation can be expressed inevitably, that one school can speak with one another, and that there can be a production capacity without any kind of state policy of the above. How? Time's up already. Just say something, two words. Nikos Xydakis at the Ministry previously and Mrs Marina Lambrakis - Plaka, who succeeded him, set a little bit of bases in this direction that I spoke about above, on how the Ministry of Culture can help in directions like these. We are talking about highlighting and linking the archaeological sites. We are essentially talking about a new initiative concerning archaeology and divestment. We are talking about real cooperation through MAGPs with all the regions of the country that have some money to be able to help culture. We are talking about things relating to culture and education, and we are talking about something that is a resource, which is essentially unexploited, which is the rationalisation of the EBRD - not just by electronic tickets. We are talking about supervised bodies that need to be rationalized and may shrink and some of them disappear. We are talking about an entire wealth of buildings that the Ministry of Culture has in Plaka and elsewhere, the fate of which is still in many unknown, even though we have begun to study what to do with them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] So the Ministry of Culture has a great deal of work to do, on condition that it remains a Ministry open, that it is not a glass tower where some come and express requests, but the Ministry itself is scattered, if you like, in all arts and in all places. Because only if we look down, where productive cultural creation is actually being exercised, can we have real knowledge of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Balta. I would like this House to be informed that in an announcement of the results of the vote on the election of the Z Vice-President of the House of Mr Lambroulis, the number of white and void lists was recorded inversely. The correct entry is: White: 49 ballots. Cancel: 6 ballots. Positive: 229 votes. It is typical of the communication, which is not essential, but, in order to be properly registered, the House must be informed. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u238	I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, to go to Stepma after Mr Baltas. He is the only Minister who has congratulated himself sincerely, because I believe he is lucky to be head of the Greek Ministry of Culture, a ministry which undeniably unites, does not separate and by whom the Minister who is over the years has the chance to deal with matters which really touch the heart and soul of the Greeks. So, Mr Balta, I meant it when I said congratulations, so I'm glad to start my speech at least with something good. Because the rest, ladies and gentlemen, I shall say, as you can see, is not so pleasant. Reading the Programming Declarations by the Prime Minister was a reading, which effectively disappointed all of us who expected to hear what this government will do in this four-year period that it plans to govern. I understand the difficulty of the Prime Minister, I understand that it is very difficult to combine the rhetoric of the programming declarations in January, to declare war, to give battles against neoliberal views, to the establishment, to corruption, to blood too much will be shed, to the months that come - and, on the other hand, to be the day when a budget, which is extremely difficult, is exactly the opposite of what the Prime Minister said and which will only lead to many tears being poured out by Greek citizens. That is why the Prime Minister may have needed an hour and a half to analyse the situation. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, although the Prime Minister said yesterday that it has, what was clearly demonstrated yesterday is the lack of a plan, the lack of a programme, a specific programme. It confirms the way in which the Prime Minister was presented here. On the one hand, he has to collect the Katrugalo fiasco, so he starts and says that an amendment will come, Mr. Vernardakis will come, the jury will not return, the system will change. We promise to vote for the New Democracy law here, when you bring him back on the subject of the jury. Secondly, we have VAT crazed 23% on private education. It's another mess. "We're freezing," he says now. We're on it until November. When he's lying down, what's going to happen? Will there be others who pay 13%, others who pay 23%, others who won't pay at all? The famous quest of equivalents. It is a difficult thing, ladies and gentlemen, the equivalents, it is difficult! Because while SYRIZA promised that there are equivalents, today he realises that there are no equivalents and that each equivalent has a cost. In the Programming Declarations you can 'clean', perhaps by saying that 'I will find the equivalent', but in the course of things it is very difficult to actually be able to apply that logic. Why am I so worried? I am very concerned that Mr Tsipras once again announced a plan which he had announced in the pre-election period. Of course, the Minister of New Democracy had announced exactly the same thing about the question of farmers. However, for the substance of the problem of the taxation of farmers and the substance of the problem of the increase in farmers' contributions, no word has been heard. I heard yesterday that we perceive growth differently. I admit I don't know exactly what SYRIZA - ANEL means when he says that we understand growth differently. I totally understand growth as an increase in GDP, as a boost to entrepreneurship, as a creation of jobs and as a non-criminalisation of profit. I would refer you to Mr Tsipras's phrase yesterday, what he said about profit. The Prime Minister obviously believes that growth can come from a state of business, which will not pursue profit and which will produce in a way of alpha or beta and stimulate growth. So here, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we strongly disagree. We have a completely different concept. I would also like to stress here in this House that it is impossible to proceed properly and effectively with the programme that you have promised that you will implement if you want to keep two watermelons in the same armpits. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like a moment of your tolerance. I'm going to get through everything else quickly, because I thought I had more time, and I'm going to get to foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in this country today is extremely interesting. Ninety-minute Prime Minister's Programming Declarations and not a single word on foreign policy. In fact, only one phrase, a phrase which says that Greece will take initiatives. But you will allow me to remind you that a prerequisite for a country to take initiatives is firstly to be present, secondly to have positions and proposals. I didn't hear any suggestions from the Prime Minister. Secondly, she must have prioritised her goals. For example, what is the result of Mr. Tsipras' meeting with Mr. Rama, except for the exchange of football experiences that he exchanged in front of the cameras? The deal with the EEZ with Albania, which was signed on these days, was placed on the table? What if so, with what result? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is the first time in Programic Declarations, at least as many years as I have been in the House, which did not mention a word about the Cyprus issue. In Cyprus, however, there are currently talks between the two communities. Greece appears indifferent and indifferent. I must say that I was very saddened by Greece's absence from a critical international conference because of the listing of Skopje as Macedonia. This is a problem that the relevant Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have easily dealt with if he had dealt with it a little earlier. However, I am entitled to ask: did Mr. Tsipras put it to Mr. Kerry at their later meeting? And if so, what's the answer? Ladies and gentlemen, for eight months I have avoided criticising foreign policy, because I believe it should remain above party separatist lines. I must, however, draw your attention today to the fact that your foreign ministry is dismantling the diplomatic service. All these years, since the time of Carolo Papoulias, I have been able to watch, until now, there has never been such a dissolution. One can accuse ministers of sympathy or disillusion, but never of empathy and persecution against worthy diplomats. What is happening today at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Kotzias to prosecute ambassadors of Alexandra Papadopoulou's level at the Permanent Greek Representation and to offer her an ambassador's position in Zair that, apart from the one mistake, it is a policy of smallness and empathy. But so, ladies and gentlemen, we shoot at Greece's feet, we shoot at foreign policy, we shoot ourselves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore like to hope that the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs will come together and I want - Mr President, one second - to state categorically that we in the New Democracy are going to vote on everything we believe to be necessary for the country, to support structural changes, to support democracies. But you will find us hard against every attempt to exaggerate the Greeks so that you can create the five new organisations that Mr. Tsipras announced yesterday in his Programming Declarations. Thank you and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mrs Bakoyannis. Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed impressive for Mrs Bakoyannis to speak only one and a half Members of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u241	Uh, not a half and a half. Who's half?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u242	I'm half?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Bayonas is half?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u244	Half is the gentleman who entered half the speech. In order not to waste time, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I should like to welcome the start of our parliamentary procedure and really to wish the whole House a success in its work and, of course, the government will succeed much more than this House. We are really entering a new, difficult phase, hard, but hopefully, because under conditions of success we can actually draw up a new era, leaving behind the era of post-mortemism, and along with this last few years of monuments, the last years of the deterioration and corruption of the political system, in recent years of political power over the major economic interests. Already our Government has launched a systematic fight against interoperable and large tax evasion and the first results are visible. After all, this, along with the fight for debt, is a great bet for our Government, for there to be breath for the Greek economy and for there to be those equivalents and compensations for the painful budgetary measures imposed on us by the third memorandum. This is the painful measure of increasing the reduced rates of VAT for the Aegean islands. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government did everything in its power not to go through this, but it was imposed for purely punishing reasons by lenders. On this issue let the New Democracy and the Opposition do not mind, and let us keep at least low tons, modestly and humblely, because I remind you that it was the New Democracy and the Opposition that took the lead in the 'yes' campaign in the referendum, which contained in the Yuger proposals this measure for the islands. Here I would like to remind you that together with the first ministerial decision on the six islands, which some leaks wanted them to be fifteen, two clear points came in. Firstly, they are equivalent to, depending on the progress of tax collection and tax evasion, modify the initial tax decisions. Secondly, measures to alleviate the permanent inhabitants and businesses of these islands affected by the increase in VAT, which is currently at the heart of the consultation with the Ministry of Finance and will be announced in the next tax draft. Ladies and gentlemen, island policy and islandity are - in fact, it should have been a foundation for the current government policy for years now. Our Government took an important step by renamed the Ministry of Shipping and the Aegean to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. This is not enough, as is also not enough to upgrade the Aegean Secretariat to a Secretariat for Island Policy. It is necessary - and it is also in our Programme Positions - for reasons of substance and policy to create the Ministry of Island, not necessarily to the Ministry of Shipping, because it has a wider range of themes, but to the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of State. The upgrading of the Subcommittee on Islands Policy and Mountains and Islands is also required in a Special Standing Committee on Treatment of Islands Policies. It is time, therefore, that our Government begins to implement in a depth of four years the island policies that both the European Treaties and Article 101(4) of the Greek Constitution, island policies that go beyond any side effects with VAT - which are also opposed to European law and the European acquis - and which will actually establish sustainability and sustainable development policies, island policies that will equally incorporate the island country in the backbone of the territory and will now stop our fellow islands from feeling like beta and gaming. After all, the updated government programme of SYRIZA now strengthens the programme of island policies with key axes and objectives: the public social body of coastlines, which will form a minimum public network of maritime transport, as well as moves towards the provision of transport, in the first phase, on the current subsidised lines. Shipbuilding policy, which, in cooperation with the shipping and financing body of European resources, will build and repair ships to the Greek shipyards. Implementation of transport equivalent policy and reductions to unemployed and economically weaker. Protection of the public health system with a fundamental upgrading of regional hospitals, health centres and regional hospitals. Modern, fast, simple aerospace system, which will replace established private interests that plunge the space. Support primary production with rapid integration of infrastructure, slaughterhouses, mills, etc., lower production costs. The ministerial decision of our Minister Evangelos Apostolos is very important. It enabled family production products to be sold on local markets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am ending with a little tolerance. Marry tourism with agricultural production, strengthen alternative forms of tourism to extend the tourist season, spatial planning per island, with corresponding land use and construction conditions, so as to protect the environment and cultural heritage. Integrated and rational management of water resources. The direct objective is to stop the cost-effective transport of water to the anhydrous islands, promote energy autonomy in the small islands, to facilitate the provision of public administration services, to serve islands in the places of residence, without any movement of residents outside the islands, to strengthen the JEPs and to extend their responsibilities. Our direct obligation is to deal with immediate outstandings - for the Cyclades I am speaking now - of the previous seven months with the opening of the Santorini hospital, which is on the door, the reintroduction of the Evangelist of Tinos Foundation in the pretext situation, the safeguarding of the viability of Neorio Syros, the development plan of mountainous Naxos, the launch of solutions for Paros airport and the health plane.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u245	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u246	To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, if for us, for SYRIZA, it is indeed the last chance, for you, for opposition and the old political system, there will be no other opportunity. The country is not coming back, the people for three times in 2015 gave you the deafening answer, said yes to hope, said not definitively to the complexion and corruption and the great interests you represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Symphony. Mr Karayannis normally has the floor. Since, however, there are two speakers from the same party in a row, we will go to Mr Maniatis and then Mr Karayannis will speak, in accordance with the plenary decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with gratitude yesterday to the Prime Minister's speech in the Programming Declarations, much more so since the Prime Minister is a full graduate from Mecca of capitalism, the United States and I hoped he would bring something fresh after his meetings with Mr Clinton. I am not going to comment on the two of the three basic principles to which it was referred as the strategic axes of the next four years. I will not comment on the aim of refinancing public debt - since already since the 2012 Eurogroup, there is this provision - as I will also not comment on the abstraction of recapitalisation of Greek banks, that is to pay another EUR 25 billion in order to correct the mistake of government negotiation, with which the banks have closed down and loaded up the Greek people another EUR 25 billion. I am very interested, however, to see how the vision of the Prime Minister is identified in the basic bet called 'development', i.e. jobs, public revenue, private gain, environmental protection in the end if and how all of this is - if something new. What did the Prime Minister tell us? Three steps will be taken: Firstly, it will create a public body. Yes, sir. He obviously forgot that there is the Invest in Greece, which for eight months has been in his hands and may well use it as a tool. What else will the Prime Minister do? It will hit red tape, and with very rapid procedures the investments will be approved. Obviously, he also forgot that there is already an institutionalized fast track, which can improve it. And what third will it do to attract dozens or hundreds of millions of euros or dollars that the national economy needs? We will adopt, by presiding decree, the interventions of large investment. But, obviously, the author, the inspiration for this particular reversal of the Prime Minister's speech, had to know that by presidential decrees, and now, for a long time, all major investments have been approved. In fact, there is also the term ESASE and ESADA, i.e. a Special Spatial Development Plan for Public Real Estate or Strategic Investment. My question therefore is: what exactly is the new incentive, which we are giving as a country that has a deep need for investment, for investors to come to invest? I would very much like to hear something much more positive, something much more optimistic than what I understood. I will now come to two of the main ministries that can support or not support growth. I'm talking about the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Public Works. I have heard the Minister for the Environment and Energy earlier and I am categorizing his positions in two groups: firstly, actions with no word and, secondly, actions with strange words. No word on hydrocarbons research, the country's great vision, the great competition for the twenty marine lands destroyed by the current government. No word on the Solidarity Fund, which is a law of the State in which public revenue is intended to be received from the use of the country's mineral wealth, in order to be used as a basic tool, according to the Norwegian model, for the sustainability of the insurance system. No word on the pipeline linking Greece and Bulgaria and Romania and upgrading the country geopolitically, transporting natural gas from the northern Aegean to Poland. No word about the gas pipeline planned to connect the Cypriot deposits through Crete and western Greece to Italy. No word on the electrical interconnection of the Greek islands with the mainland. Second class, weird words. I heard that during the SYRIZA government - ANEL supposedly reconnected hundreds of thousands of households with electricity. Obviously, the Minister means the seven hundred thousand connections that have been in existence for nearly three years in the social tariff that we first established throughout Europe. I also heard that gas prices are falling by 16%. Obviously, we mean the agreement with the Russians that we signed in March 2014 and now the relevant discount is being implemented. I've heard a wish for energy saving. I did not, however, hear, except for the 500 million that we made available from the NSRF and energy, forty thousand families, poor households, how much money will be invested in the new NSRF. I have heard many words about the privatisation of IPTO and the privatisation of PPC. I hope that the alternative measures, the equivalents proposed by the relevant Ministry, will not be more adverse than the privatisation of IPTO, because it is a deep need for the public interest to have public networks in the service of the national economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am ending very soon. I would remind you that the Memorandum which the current government will be invited to implement provides for a 50% reduction in the activity of electricity production by PPC. Let the responsible ones be very careful because this is a substantial shrinkage and nullification of the important role of PPC. In an arbitrary and reckless way, the mines of Cassandra were closed and the Council of State came and justified the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, we will either decide that the country's mineral wealth is a great source of job creation and public wealth, and therefore, the truth that, at first, we consider it graphic, then we are against it and, finally, we consider it self-evident, accept it, or go back to the lenders. We are with those who are struggling to produce public wealth and not with lenders. And finally, only one phrase for public works, the second great ministry. Finally, let the concessions of the major road corridors be restarted, and let us do what we have in place, namely the electronic issue of building permits, so that the 'under the table' in towns can finally be stopped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Since October 2014, with the cooperation of the Technical Chamber of Commerce, this implementation is ready for implementation and awaits eight months the joint Ministerial Decision of the relevant ministers. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Maniotis. Mr Karayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the economic situation in the country requires national unity, social cohesion, immediate solutions to major time-consuming problems and prospects of development, unfortunately in crisis management conditions. As I come from the most abandoned and poor county of Greece, the Ioannina Prefecture and the poorest region of the European Union, the Epirus Region, I feel the need to focus on the development issue, which remains the great challenge of the next day. But can we talk about development within suffocating budgetary frameworks and unfavourable clauses of agreements? My answer is, yes, just to redesign the country's development standards, based on its national and regional comparative advantages, to support primary production, innovation, entrepreneurship and the social economy, to correct chronic diseases, to change attitudes, productive and consumer standards, to make the best use of all European resources and new financial instruments. The objective is to establish that due to abnormal conditions in the economy, the objective of an integrated production regeneration programme may not be feasible. Nevertheless, we are obliged to manage a major crisis with vision, rationality, conflictual logic, realistic goals and extroversion. One of these objectives and the main pillars of productive reconstruction is the agri-food production system, which is directly linked to the development of the Greek region and the emergence of its comparative advantages. We have the chance to live in a country with many competitive advantages, which with appropriate policies can emerge and deliver directly. The Greek region will have to relocate in order to change the present dramatic situation of the dead industrial areas, the land and the bankrupt cooperatives. Let me point out here that the cooperative ideas about the state of cooperatives in our country are not responsible, but their manipulation for many years from specific political interests and policies that have blackened and shattered the principles and values of cooperation. It goes without saying that the mistakes of the past cannot happen again. The juncture is difficult, but the qualitative upgrading and reconstruction of agricultural production will take us out of the deadlock. From regional development we can borrow successful models, especially from countries in the European south, where the production of quality and branded products ensured fair and stable income to the small producer, but also fair and stable prices to the consumer. Businesses in the social economy, through the new legal framework, can play an important role in this respect. The objective of linking primary production with the tourist product and the gastronomy of each region is necessary and feasible, provided that mentalities, chronic pathogens are overcome and that production and business consciousness of extroversion and synergies are acquired. The production of branded quality products and exports is a one-way road. Reconstruction on a new basis of extroverts is essential, as is the enhanced role of our commercial followers, both in attracting investment and in promoting exports, and in new markets - objectives. However, the current situation in the primary sector is dramatic. The fight should be a constant and bi-front, both for the survival and reconstruction of agriculture and livestock in our country and for the radical reform of the CAP, in cooperation with the countries of the European south, to promote together the Mediterranean food and its products. At the same time, it is essential to support our national products - feta and oil - with specific sectoral policies and development plans. 90% of our oil cannot be sold in bulk to our competitors and every white cheese is baptised, especially after the agreement between the European Union and Canada. It is important to protect our traditional products, products of designation of origin, geographical indication, mountainous, island regions and NATURA. To conclude, I should like to make a reference - because there is a lot of talk about the agricultural sector - to the sale of three years ago of the profitable and exporting dairy industry in Epirus, the 'DADONI', a sale that led to a despair of hundreds of farmers from all over the continent, dismantled the region's livestock, disrupted the milk zone and put at great risk the PDO of feta on the international market. We are obliged to the Continental breeders, but also to all in Greece, without any re-institutional attitude to the new industrial property regime, to open up the laundry file and find out all the truth about this crime committed on the continent and the entire livestock world. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr Karayannis. The Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Peglerin, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, we know that education is a sensitive and important area of Greek society and needs the attention and sensitivity of all of us. The government's programme is a fundamental stone. We are aiming in particular at alleviating the cultural inequalities that are rooted in the class inequalities of society, as well as the removal of all kinds of discrimination between sex, race, religion and belief of social and national origin, the physical specificity of individuals and others from the institutional framework, as well as from the everyday life of education. Our aim is to ensure as a social asset and as a right the human need for lifelong access to multifaceted knowledge through the various forms of learning offered. To this end, we intend to develop intercultural education in the reception classes and intercultural schools, to strengthen the education of Greek children abroad, highlighting the value of the Greek language internationally. We must, in this regard, have extended cooperation with the Centre for Greek Language. We intend to establish free educational seminars on human rights, based on experiential learning methods and to join the educational process at all levels, to integrate UNESCO and European Union policies into the Greek educational system, to approach the new generation, by exploiting social networks with initiatives aimed at reconciliation with diversity. The Ministry of Education understands the role of digital media and plans actions to meet the new digital generation in its own areas. The development and penetration of new technologies in our society, and more specifically in the educational environment, aims to create content and not only consuming. We are therefore planning to redesign educational broadcasting with an emphasis on digital technology and a key objective of digital education. We want to unite and display the diffusion in many educational schools, universities, educational centres, as well as individual educational material blogs, which has, for the most part, been produced by their own students or students in collaboration with their teachers and to their institutions, as well as in cooperation with local community bodies. At the same time, there are excellent and quality productions which must be exploited in such an institution. The quality axes on which we will move are as follows: Firstly, the educator, who could follow the Ministry's detailed programme to some extent as regards primary and secondary education. Secondly, entertainment, which could be based on cultural productions of students, students and teachers, films and short documentaries, original and imaginative creations, which, despite the fact that most of them are amateurs, are nevertheless highly aesthetic. Thirdly, vocational guidance at both school level and level of study, because we have a duty to provide substantial information on critical vocational and technical education. It is a challenge that we will undertake to link school to culture and creation through educational television, in consultation with the educational community. We are envisioning an electronic platform of the Ministry of Education which will representatively present in different languages all the worthwhile points of reference of our education for all levels, discrimination, excellence, innovations of the innovative educational action. We want there to be a continuous flow of briefings for education, spiritual and scientific space. There is a remarkable potential of our student and student youth, as well as a similarly important fighter of educational staff who every day gives his own struggles at school and at university, in private and public education, in general and vocational education. Particular attention will be paid to European and international issues in order to exploit the experiences of other countries and the resources that can be derived from the programmes concerned. We will move on to redefine the legal framework for the functioning of libraries and general state archives. The education of a place without the use of libraries is incomprehensible, where the citizen will be able to meet the diversity of knowledge through books. "Beware of the man of a book," said Thomas Ikinatis, the leading spiritual personality of the 13th century, when the circulation of books, in fact, was extremely limited. So in order to ensure access to books, commissions will be set up directly in all the libraries in the country and we will proceed with rapid procedures in the performance of libraries which belong to the Agency for Children and Teen Libraries, in the municipalities concerned. We intend to promote the culture of the book, because the contact of the young man with the book constantly opens up horizons and creates new interests, sensitizes him and helps him to know himself and human problems. In the field of general government archives, it should be understood that general government archives have an important role to play in the areas of historical research, cultural action, administrative information and civil service. We will burden open data, because it is of particular importance that the historical documents of the state can be freely used, reused and redistributed, in accordance with existing legislation. We will immediately establish a working group, in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to complete the new regulatory framework as soon as possible, with a wide consensus on this national issue. The new regulatory framework must be prepared and adopted by March, before the secondment of teachers from next year. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a comprehensive plan for the reconstruction of education, as well as the active, effective and democratic exercise of education policy, is a process of continuous criticism of feedback and continuous adjustments. The creation of a climate of cooperation and mutual trust between the State and the educational community, together with the continuous and free - I stress - training of teachers and democratic reconstruction in education are a safe prerequisite for the success of our efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr Peglerin. Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of talk about development today in this Chamber, but development is not a neutral condition. He's got a class badge. Development by whom and to whose benefit? Who's making growth? Who is planning it and what interests is he trying to satisfy with this kind of development? From the development that you are all seeking, this capitalist development, a growth that will make big capital, no benefit to the people. On the contrary, this capitalist development will step on the legacy of labour rights. All the anti-grassroots measures taken over the last five to six years, aimed at reducing the price of the labour force, have been a precondition for creating favourable conditions for this development for which you speak within the House. For the same reason, privatizations are being made to find a way out of accumulated funds that are ponding. Of course, there can be growth in the benefit of the people, except that it should be the people themselves. To do this, it is the pooled means of production, the means by which we produce wealth, the power to change order through the central design and labour control to get the economy to work for the benefit of the workers and the people's strata. Ladies and gentlemen, the terrorist dilemmas, hollow words on the renegotiation of the memorandum, may have taken place, and indeed on the original argument that it is a one-way road to save the country - we have never heard of this - may have the people taking steps back, even from its demands, but do not expect the consent of the people to the anti-grassroots measures which you have kept for the next period. Be assured that despite the efforts you will make in the next period, you cannot fool everyone who has fooled easily so far. That'll be clean for you, no matter what you're trying to do. However, the workers, the populace, should not under any circumstances think that because they voted in favour of them, they are accomplices to the anti-popular policy that this coup d'état will implement as well. This is the worst danger in this period for the people. The Programming Declarations, the debate so far as it has evolved, show that the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence has already been properly prepared and is ready to proceed immediately to sweeping changes and to the industrial relations to which I am going to refer. Capital is about to go on with changes in insurance and work, because these are also crucial issues for competitiveness and the profitability of capital, that is, for this development that you are talking about here. The strong autumn storm will not leave the further dissolution of industrial relations, the further decline in the price of the labour force. These changes - necessary reforms - aim at restoring the competitiveness of the Greek economy and adapting the labour market to modern conditions. You have referred vaguely to the restoration of collective bargaining and not, of course, to collective agreements. You have overlooked that on the basis of the memorandum measures are coming - fire, such as the further liberalisation of redundancies and the tightening of the legislation on trade union action, with emphasis in particular on the introduction of new obstacles to the strike. Why is that? You have finally forgotten, as it seems, even the gradual reintroduction of EUR 650 in October of 1915 and of EUR 751 in '16. I will not forget that you were swinging our fingers - Mr Skourletis is not here - seven months now, even asking me naively what we are going to do. "We'll bring it to the House. What will you do, the JRC, when we bring it?’ Ladies and gentlemen, after 2012 the thousand four hundred operational contracts that have been signed in the meantime had reductions from 10% to 40%. Industrials have made it clear that a basis for negotiation has EUR 586 and EUR 511. For a return to the level of 2009, no reason. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] You will legislate taking into account the good practices of the European Union! But on the basis of good practice of the European Union, it means more flexible and deregulation of labour relations, especially for young people. In Greece, part-time recruitment has increased since 2009 by 162%. With the reforms and changes that you are about to bring, you will legalise this disgraceful situation that currently prevails in the labour market, equating everyone downwards and establishing a net of elementary protection against extreme poverty situations and maintaining all the anti-virtual arsenal. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, just a minute. No, there is no national need for new reductions, pensions, increases in retirement age, further privatisation of the insurance system, the liberalisation of collective redundancies, the stricterisation of the trade union law, the complete dismantling of labour relations. Workers must organize their struggle for collective agreements aimed at increasing wages and pensions, covering the losses now, restoring collective labour contracts now, no one is working with less than EUR 751. To abolish the miserable hunger wages of EUR 586 and EUR 511. Immediately abolish all anti-corruption laws that break collective agreements. Since I do not have time to say that, as far as the JRC is concerned, you know that we will never say'so you voted, well to have it'. We are not in any way going to be indifferent. We will support the struggles of the people in every way and with sacrifice we will support their rights within and outside Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u255	Good evening. Mr Triantafylides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u256	Six minutes plus two.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u257	Yeah, it's six minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u258	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity to take this opportunity as Minister of Culture, Mr Baltas and Mr Amanatidis, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because I will not prevent me from tabling the proposal I had in mind in the field of culture for the Ministry of Culture, Education and Home Affairs on an international initiative for the protection, strengthening and promoting of the Greek language, the promotion of the Greek namelessness with the participation of persons from the premises of the arts, letters, sciences, media from Greece and abroad by setting up a inter-group committee or the inclusion of this initiative as the basic object of the committee on the Greek diaspora. I am talking first of all about protecting against the abuse that the Greek language suffers from Parliament to the media and from the Greek educational system to our everyday life, and I remember the late teacher Christos Tsolakis who said that the limits of our words are meant to be meaningless and signalled by the boundaries of our world. The people are poor, the language is poor. It grows, effectively exploits this huge wealth, grows, and I will say immediately after what happens with the history of culture that we must give it particular value and importance, Minister, because with culture we will overcome the communiqué cannibalism. Culture, which is not luxury, because some can say it is luxury in the time of ENPIA and VAT. I do not believe that the limits of our words are privatisation and recapitalisation of the banks, are the indicators that go up or down, but that this government and this party, the great democratic, progressive, left-wing party, marks culture as a number one priority to pass across. Reason accounting and programming, accounting for seven months. I was saying here the Stepma - my humility - that the enigma of exiting from commemorative cannibalism, the enigma of life, prospect and hope for us and our children, for our homeland, require the collective political subject to have the characteristics of the genius Oedipus. The first aspect is the government of national and social salvation to resolve the spiral of the string, that is, the memorandum, without killing its father, that is, the values, the principles and the programme, and without, of course, marrying its mother, namely power and self-interest. The balance sheet after seven months is: the life bet, even with losses, is still open, it is still alive because we have compromised. We are neither compromised nor subordinated. The other side of Oedipus is that citizens are active in the streets and squares putting back on their own government. Carcas from their flesh, because the overthrow of dilliver-distribution at home does not exist. Because dignity is not borrowed, given that it is not inherited, and that is why we are calling, today, for self-energy, for citizens' initiative, for their integration into collective forms of claim, for creative counter-attack, for dialogue and for actions. A report on Thessaloniki. Today remains the city of fraudulent commitments and unfulfilled promises. The first of SYRIZA, with twelve units different from New Democracy in the old castle of caramanlis, does not automatically change the map of "Black", the black holes that engulf the city beyond the consequences of the Memorandum. The metro is cancerd, the port is denounced, the State Theatre of Northern Greece is down, the hospitals collapse. Thessaloniki is the capital of unemployment, especially of young people and women, with tens of thousands of units from local government and the Church, mainly in western Thessaloniki. There in Western Thessaloniki I call upon our ministers, Mr Katrugalos, Mr Petropoulos - he was here, he left now - Mr Tsakalotos, we must give a clear answer to the recurring expatriates from the former Soviet Union, from the northern continent, from Istanbul, but also economic migrants, if Article 31 of the Treaty still applies. 4331 for voting. There is one reference to the Memorandum on these repealed provisions. Is the specific provision of Article 31 to be drawn up as from 1 October? We want a clear and clear answer to them. It was forty-two thousand. God did his miracle - in introductorys - took them to a place of lawn and refreshment. There's only twenty-eight thousand left. Twenty-eight thousand for twelve months. We're talking about people who have their homeland in their hearts. They came to Greece to die in the soils of the country. We owe them at least to be honest with them. Our town is trapped by traffic and by the subway, from its construction sites, which should have been completed by 2012. We don't even see it for 2022. With a single means of transferring citizens of the private OSH with a monopoly state grant. This mention of Thessaloniki, for which we proposed a special meeting of the Ministerial Council in the city of Thessaloniki, with concrete answers to both the metro and unemployment and the port and the use of the projectors and the logistics and a number of issues. I have too much to say. I am leaving the issues that I wanted to highlight for the New Democracy, consensus and the ESDP. I just want two minutes to speak, Madam President, and I close my reference to the cultural sector, especially the Greek language, for which I would invite the ministers to take this initiative. I cannot believe - I deny - that our limits, the limits of our world of references are only VAT and HISPIA, recapitalisation and privatisation, indices and in the medium term. There is a reason for culture and when in our home country we talk about culture, it is not just about great music, state theatres, regional theatres. We also talk about spontaneous, improvised folk expressions in arts, letters, visuals, dance, music, cinema, television, the Internet. With culture - antidote to barbarism, we will face commemorative cannibalism. With culture to see and detect our lives in the memorial era. Many people will say - perhaps many - 'but here we do not have to eat, do we have the luxury to talk about culture'? The dilemma is inextricable: culture or barbarism? In times of crisis art and culture are more necessary than ever. With art and culture we do not pay ENPIA, but with art and culture we deliver our souls from the social automation of anthropophagia, the cannibalism of atomicism, racism and xenophobia. With the sieve, the ship of culture and art will sweeten our souls and we will all cross across. When politics sees culture as luxury, we have a problem in setting up policy, because politics is a child of culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Triantafylides, let's just shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u260	Such a policy remains an orphan without culture. And I want to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u261	But hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u262	It's not the first time that time has been violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u263	How did I expect to!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u264	By me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u265	By who else? This citizen is in favour, with him we are moving, from him we are looking for his active criticism and participation in the necessary corrective interventions in the course of the next four years. Without the people, ladies and gentlemen, without the citizens, we are nothing. Along with the people, with the citizens, we're everything. Then we have the right to have rights and we have the right to fight for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Vorides has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u267	Why would anyone vote against these Programmatic Declarations? It is not a text of socialist transformation. It doesn't even change society. The text of the Prime Minister has all the good words: investment, growth, privatisation, a reduction in bureaucracy. All the good memorial vocabulary is here. So why would anyone vote against?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u268	Hey, vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u269	No, we're going to vote against. I'll tell why. It is clear - and one hears it in the speeches of SYRIZA colleagues - that deep, almost existential anxiety. We have just been told by our previous colleague about memorial barbarism, while at the same time voting in favour of programme statements implementing a memorandum. So it's clear that SYRIZA today is being transformed. The transformation of this, a matter of contradictions, is very clearly depicted in these Programmatic Declarations. For while on the one hand you have the good vocabulary, on the other hand you suddenly hear a residue of almost Soviet: 'central planning'. That is, development and investment on the one hand, but centrally planning on the other. On the one hand, we say it is major - and very importantly, the Prime Minister says - to attract foreign capital, but on the other hand, you are taking speculation. You know, that's a contradiction you need to solve. Because if you want funds, the funds are, as you know, placed for profit. The funds do not exactly have a charity to do. They don't do this job. They're doing something else. They're making money. If there are no profitability conditions - and that should be your policy concern - then you cannot at the same time say that you want to attract capital. And yet - I imagine we have become the estate of all of us - investment is not attracted because we are going to build an investment entity. Because either we fix it up or we do not make it - by the way, there is one more, so that we can fix it - it is clear that to any investor who asks specific questions: what is taxation? What is the prospect of profitability? What are the motives given? What is this specific environmental legislation? How do the courts function and how are disputes resolved, which may resurrect? These are issues that will be asked to be clarified to investors in order to decide whether or not they will be placed in the Greek economy. And that's what I don't hear much about. Or I hear a counterfactualism and a fragmentation of neoliberal policies on the one hand and on the other hand has, for example, privatizations, which is an especially neoliberal policy. The end is made - supposedly - an enemy. Who's the enemy? It's the oligarchy, the corrupt chapter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u270	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u271	We, Minister, say very specific things. In fact, I was very sorry about that. I still don't hear what the plan is for what the real objects of interest to the Greek people are. It is now that you are creating a front because, for example, you will take care of wages, while we are not interested in the question of wages. You know, the main problem with wages is one. Because if we say in the Chamber 'we want to increase wages', you say there is one who will say 'no, I do not'? The problem with the recovery of incomes is that they must be linked to real economic productivity. Otherwise, we would vote laws and we would not do it 780 euros, we could well do it 1,200 euros. The point is that the laws do not create wealth. Real production creates wealth. The real economic potential creates wealth. So how will jobs be made? If you are following the path of the development of economic freedoms, i.e. 'I want capital, I want investment, I want to shape conditions of this perspective' - this creates jobs, it is the private initiative that does this - then you need to look at ensuring it. But you cannot, on the other hand, at the same time as you say, 'I wish to make profitability', say that, in fact, 'yes, I want to move on to privatisation, but at the same time I will resist doing as much as possible' and, at the same time, say that you have another development path, because growth has a sign and your own path is another development path. And when I read "why, what is this other path of development?", do you know what you're describing inside? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need thirty seconds, Madam President, please. You describe the reduction - it says - of bureaucracy, as we have told you to keep it. This is another development path. Describe the development of technologies. Yes, sir. How exactly are you going to develop technologies? Because making cutting-edge technologies today in the modern world requires huge capital. Or is it that you're going to make "MICROSOT" in Greece, so why did the Prime Minister say so? Therefore, what is the other way of development that you are publishing? We are voting against these Programmatic Declarations, because we do not want the SYRIZA's existential drama to become a nation's existential drama. Your drama to live it on your own. We who do not have such dramas do indeed serve another path of development, that of freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centron Association for six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u273	Madam President, I congratulate you on your election. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, 'Thessaloniki'. The first word I would like to say from this Stepma is the name of the city that honoured the Central Association and me personally. I feel need, obligation, responsibility to start here in front of you with the name of the city that embraced a vision and made it its own. I did not hear from the Prime Minister the word "Thessaloniki" in his Programming Declarations. I have not heard the word 'Macedonia'. I thank Mr. Triantafylides for that. At a time when words seem to have lost their meaning, the city of Thessaloniki resists. He doesn't need an announcement to do social policy. She's made a lifestyle for herself. She never lost her friendship, her humanity. He never stopped hoping and fighting for a better tomorrow. In social medicine, in solidarity aggregations, in the homeless initiatives, in the support concerts in Thessaloniki, in the whole of Macedonia lives. He's giving life where the Memorandum goes to get it. Thessaloniki does not negotiate its dignity, does not cry, does not produce noise. I undertake at a critical moment to represent the city, while her children are renowned to find work and open up their TVs there in the hostel and see ads "Welcome to Macedonia" and by the Slavic characters understand that advertising is of the sceptic government, the same sceptic government that has made sure its participation in international conferences is no longer called "Macedonia". Our Thessaloniki is now evidently neglected and wronged in relation to Athens. There is a problem with the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, because no funds have been allocated to develop and expand the business sector. The NRP has been frozen for two years, not having financed any small and medium-sized enterprises. Following the conscious act, the metro of Thessaloniki comes to seal its closure with the closure of operations, resulting in the delay and non-completion of this project, as opposed to Athens, which has been given great emphasis on the development of the metro tunnel. The consequences are irreversible for the city. The metro issue requires political will, requires regulation within the House, perhaps an additional contract, as has been done with the Athens metro. The project is in danger of enduring. Topics like Squirrels - what about mines anyway? - immigration, refugee, how to separate refugees from immigrants, how to ensure the security of the country, what will be done with those who are concerned with European authorities on terrorism, what is happening in Sindo. The insurance company. You said new business. Reduced insurance contributions, we say, for a long time, for new professionals. What about VAT on the islands, what about the privatizations? Another issue from the use of the ESRB's resources is their non-exploitation in order to exploit them in the agricultural sector, in order to create production units, by exploiting agricultural farming. In this way, on the one hand, you cannot blame farmers for their impossible production activity, given that you have prevented them from receiving subsidies and on the other hand, you have imposed a very large tax on them. This leads the Greek producer to produce less and to sell at a higher price than a imported product. By extension, these people should find ways to strengthen them so that they can play an active part in the role of international trade. You appear before Parliament and therefore before the Greek people, cutting off the parallel programme, instead of hitting the pathogens that have been stumbling for decades both society and the state and therefore all our fellow citizens. The Centro Union and its President, Vassilis Leventis, when you and your comrades and the rest of our old-fashioned partymen had warned us of the calamity that was coming. Then all of you, today's saviours, have served with the unintentional, vile, customer-friendly policy of bipartism that has devastated our people and has led us to economic destruction and poverty. You appear, Prime Minister, again at the same step, without having learned any lessons from the mistakes of the past, promising not only the impossible but also the ineffective ones. You choose to protect the customer state, which clearly favours your purposes, but ignore the real needs of our fellow citizens in care, care and protection. You prefer to sound good than to act rationally. Our President, with realism, maturity and political spirit of understanding and responsibility, sent you on the next day of the elections the nine-point programme, stressing the obvious national need for a wider government majority, with no effect. You will find us in front of you at every wrong step, in every secular reform. You have wasted time that the country did not have, you have exhausted the patience of the citizens who did not exceed them, you have rebelled without a plan, and you have almost made the country more difficult from where you received it. Ladies and gentlemen, you have touched your soul in a memorandum reading it for three days and your soul has frozen. How do you ask the soul of the Greeks to live the one that froze your soul just by reading it? Your way isn't the only way. It's not even a road. It's a dead end path. But there is also the path of the Centroon Union, which at this critical moment, at the critical turning point in modern Greek history, you had to study it and take it into consideration. This is justice, it's true, it's honesty, it's dignity. It is not just about the fight against one or more pathogens, it is about a political cosmogenicity, which you have ignored. From the lips of Thessaloniki, from the Centron Association, you will see an effort for a shift in arguments. Programmatic Declarations are lacking base, it's wishful, it's bet, it's not a plan, they don't have a vision. The more the Greek people see it, the more we simply vote against the Programmatic Declarations and do not give a vote of confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u274	Thank you. The Foreign Minister, Mr Mardas, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to explain something about this single body which has been heard and which has not been understood. The other is Enterprise Greece, the other is the single body. To be clearer, other sailors and other officers of a ship. 'Enterprise Greece' does not draw up a strategy, it implements a strategy. 'Enterprise Greece', too, if it sticks to a foreign investment in the context of some bureaucracy, cannot move against a ministry and say why this is happening and who is responsible. That can be done by a coordinating body. We didn't, of course, discover the wheel. There is also in other countries and it can function exactly as a general needs to run an investment in the way it has to. As far as the questions we have to answer to foreign investors are concerned, this is what I can tell you at the World Competitive Ness Report. They are questions that have arisen from previous governance, as we are in 2014, and there we see what is bothering foreign investors. The tax rates are not the first five factors. He's in the first seven, but he's not in the first five. There are factors that can be improved without money and we start from them so that we can improve the investment climate and attract foreign investors. What are we going to do? We will pursue a policy, followed by other countries, which brings together our country, the relevant Ministry and the relevant bodies, with the businesses themselves in the area they are in, visiting their countries and not organising various snakes, where we present Greece with its financial data, which they know much better than us. We already have thirty-five studies from thirty-five successful cases, related to export trade and foreign investment, and that is where we will copy various practices that will be very useful to us. We will seek to ensure that the investment law, in which we too participate and prepare to send the comments, improve the time for the approval of a foreign investment. I would like to remind you that in too many countries dynamically this time of approval does not exceed one month. From there on, we can give a number of other motives which we have in our hands. A motive is the industrial shells, as we say, which are available and which can be given to each investor with very good exploitation opportunities, which we will do and we have a specific method to follow. Of course, extroversion, which is an issue we are dealing with, is not only attraction of investment and exports, but other things. We have a wonderful world, the one of the medical sources that remains unexploited. Next week in Thessaloniki at a meeting organized by the federations, there we will give our views on the thermal sources and how we can develop a health tourism that can bring a great deal of money to both the country and the local communities. Of course, it is still an extroversion that is not just money, investment and exports. It's civilization too. We have identified an island, and we have already made a premeditated study which is much older than the time I took over. It is an island that a research team has named as an island of art and philosophy and we think of this island turning it into a summer Davos where we will call all those states, who want to build a house in the area, so that they can serve their conference tourism and not just. Someone will tell me they need money. There are also ways in which this money can be found, so that we can develop a form of culture that contributes - you understand - to the promotion of the country's extroversion. From there on, there are various other methods that we will develop in order to attract foreign investments, methods linked to procedures that are unprecedented for our country and in time you will see them, I cannot develop them. But they are already written and you can find them in written texts. Finally, as far as foreign investment is concerned, the 'fast track' law which I have sometimes called it'slow track' faces some problems and, more specifically, problems start with its first article. It needs to be simplified even more. Clearly it has too many positive elements. In particular, the element associated with expropriations is very positive. By making some minor improvements here, this law will not introduce a bureaucracy that already introduces it in its current form. As far as exports are concerned, we will introduce the export card and this card will guarantee some tax advantages to exporters. As far as international reports and commercial missions are concerned, we will ensure some tax - again - advantages to those who are involved because we cannot afford, as some other countries do. By using Article 107 of the Treaty of Lisbon, we will consult the committee as planned so that some non-tariff measures can at present help the Greek industry to use and develop them. At the same time, we will work together with all the country's collaborators associated with exports and, of course, with the Central Association of Chambers, so that we can turn the country into a place where there will be various fora by region and that will involve bureaucrats, politicians, academics and entrepreneurs. And that can be done and money can be found because there are sponsors. Finally, we will connect our exporters to international distribution networks and we will develop businesses - not state, of course, but private - that will contribute to the development of these enterprises - which collect from small and medium-sized enterprises and send them to various other countries, according to their existing practices. By the way, I would like to tell you in the framework of the Erasmus Plus programme that we will use this programme so that we can send our trainees to our embassies abroad and in particular to our commercial followers, so that they can learn the area, the market and the various products. In conclusion, you will allow me to address an issue which, indirectly, touches us and some comments were made yesterday in the House, when the Prime Minister announced that we would combat tobacco and alcohol smuggling and did not refer to fuels. I would like to point out that there are ready laws on tobacco and alcohol. As far as fuels are concerned, where the General Accounting Office of the State had a strong involvement in the formulation of this policy, it is a step backwards. It doesn't mean we're at a stage too far back. The three amendments have already been written and four joint ministerial decisions have also been prepared. We are simply a year behind the vote on the amendments on tobacco and alcohol. This bill, however, walks just as we promised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr Marda, for being precise in time. The circle of parliamentary representatives is now beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Mitsotakis, would you like to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u278	After Minister, that's how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u279	That is how it is, Madam President, if you have no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u280	No, I have no objections. Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Madam President. I wish you congratulations on your election. Ladies and gentlemen, listening yesterday to the Prime Minister in Parliament and seeing the faces of SYRIZA colleagues, listening to the anemic and extremely few applause from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, I thought of one thing: in fact, adapting to realism, which the reality itself imposed upon you, is an extremely difficult and painful process for you. It was quite clear to me, but I also believe in many of our fellow citizens who have followed this process, that the Prime Minister read a programme, which basically does not believe and is therefore unable to implement. He talked about a lot of concepts I don't think they're familiar with. On the substance, what he tried to do is to sprinkle a liberal reform program with bold left gold powder. The result, of course, was far less than anticipation - I personally would call it an ideological achmatama - and the confident winner of the January elections gave his place to a feared, in my view, an awkward Prime Minister. I would just like to remind the new colleagues of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks who were not in this Chamber on 8 February when the Prime Minister read his first Programming Declarations, exactly what Mr Tsipras said with confidence and with the momentum of anti-monotic victory. That is why I read you a single abhorrence, because I think it is worth: 'The Government is not entitled to request an extension of the memorandum, because it is not entitled to request an extension of the error and the destruction'. He is the same man, the same Prime Minister, who spoke yesterday about the urgent need to complete the first assessment of the third memorandum, the first Memorandum of the Left, which bears wide signature of Alexis Tsipras. I found it very interesting that the Prime Minister chose to set the first objective of his government's mandate to restore economic stability. I found it very interesting. I wonder, however, exactly when the economic stability has been disrupted and what is the cause of this disturbance of economic stability? Who closed the banks? On the days when unemployment increased? The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that at the last minute you have saved the country with our own backs from a certain disaster. We won't tell you 'bravo' about that. You remind me of a fireman who, after he set fire to the house, calls the fire department at the last minute. You do not deserve congratulations on this, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the Greek people have represented you in the elections and asked you, the parliamentary majority, SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks, to implement this programme that you rejected. I found unprecedented - and I do not think there should be another such background in Parliament's chronicles - the Prime Minister should refer to financial data, which are flawed by the preliminary draft that the Minister of Finance submitted to Parliament at random on the same day! I would really like an explanation for that. Prime Minister here at the Step said clearly that there will be growth in the country in the first half of 2016. The draft state budget, which bears the signature of the Minister of Finance - we have not seen it yet, may then give some explanations about this paradox - with absolute clarity, on page 19 and on the table, predicts a recession of 2.3% for 2015 and a recession of 1.3% for 2016. The Prime Minister spoke about a gradual degression in unemployment. But the draft by the Minister of Finance itself provides for unemployment of 25.4% in 2015 and 25.8% in 2016. Something very strange is happening. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I don't know. Does the Minister of Finance undermine him? Does the group of fifty-three start showing its teeth, or is the Minister of Finance finally right? Has the Minister of Finance finally been right that with the policies you are implementing and the way in which you want to implement this programme, development is simply not going to return to the place either in 2015 or in 2016 or in 2017, as you are going to do? I heard a very interesting analysis of the Prime Minister yesterday. He told us other development, you mean centre-right, and we, the Left, mean another development. You know about me development is a very simple concept. Concentrates on three words: jobs, jobs, jobs! And when we talk about growth, we are obviously demonstrating our intention from this here the Step forward of attracting foreign investors and the very least we should do as a government is our words and our government actions to support our so-called actions. And I wonder how exactly you see growth, gentlemen of the government majority, when for every major investment it is clear that the licensing procedure required is not about the existing provisions, but about the local committees of SYRIZA. The example of the Squirrels is absolutely characteristic. It is an operation, which has been justified ten to eleven times in the Council of State and which closes with the'so I want' of a minister, only so that he can manage the internal party opposition. Are we sending a good message to investors when we tell them that we are completely ignoring the legal framework and that we are politically deciding what investment we like and what investment we do not like? I wonder what this development, which in the words, in the papers, is about privatisation, for example, privatization of the PPA, but in practice, the voices that want to undermine this investment are growing. In fact, I am still wondering when the binding offers for the PPA will be made in order to proceed with this privatisation, which you so much fought for, if we are able to attract funds that Piraeus so much needs. Of course, I remember what you said at the time, from the standpoints of counterpopulation, about the bad foreign investors who come and buy the country's strategic infrastructure. However, the 'COSCO' is the one that gave life to a dead port, which quintyled the volume of containers moved by Piraeus and, yes, this investment gave work to a thousand three hundred workers and not low-paid workers, ladies and gentlemen, but well paid workers. And I wonder what development is it that you see, when the big infrastructure projects, which the country so much needs, the five major roads to concessions, are still in place? What development is it exactly what you see when we have not heard a word about the exploitation of mineral wealth and hydrocarbons, which is a very important development perspective in the country? And I wonder exactly how we understand growth when, as it was done, the banks were recapitalisation, we send out the message to all foreign investors who came and invested in Greek banks last year, that they basically lost all their money. Because that is exactly where your policy has led us. The recapitalisation of the banks was not necessary. And they didn't just lose their money the foreign investors who came. He lost his money and the CFS, which owns 62% of the shares in systemic banks. And when these shares in May 2014 were worth 22 billion, and today they are worth 2 billion, and when the recapitalisation is completed it will be worth zero, for this loss of 22 billion someone has a responsibility. You, too, have a responsibility. And well, political responsibility may not concern you, but do you think that with such practices you are sending a positive signal to foreign investors to come and invest in Greece? These were, you know, the questions that the Prime Minister was unable to answer when he faced Mr Clinton with his extremely unfortunate dialogue. And he was unable to deal with them not because he did not speak very well English, but because he did not have the answers in English either. That was his big problem. For precisely this development policy and the dynamics that the country needs are a dynamic which, in principle, is foreign to you. You don't believe her, you don't want her. You are still dealing with entrepreneurship and business in terms of suspicion. I listened to Mr Marda before saying - he left, he is not here - that 'you know, the tax rates are not a substantial blocking factor in attracting investment to our country'. Really? Business tax 29%? Have you seen the tax rates in our neighborhood? And you're seriously saying that it's not a sedative factor in taxation? And if we assume that there are some major investments that can be accepted by this tax regime, for all small businesses, which are currently being fought with the advance tax, what do you have to say? Because you must realise at some point that companies do not go bankrupt when they have no profits. Enterprises go bankrupt when they run out of cash. And that is exactly what you are going through with your tax policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please give me three minutes from my dentistry, Madam President. But this tax policy has a clear ideological sign. It is a tax policy that says 'yes, I will exaggerate, because basically the head of state expenditure is not interested in touching it'. I heard very interesting things yesterday from the Prime Minister about the public administration front. They gave me a lot of impression. I must tell you that the Prime Minister has also shown an impressive ignorance of the way his Government is organised and structured. He talked about new organograms at the ministries. But didn't anyone let him know, Mr. Ministers? Mr. Kourublis is here as the Minister responsible. Didn't you tell him, Mr. Kurubli, that the organograms have all been completed and the relevant presidential decrees have been issued?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u282	I didn't inform him, Mr. Mitsotakis, of services you didn't put into the agencies!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u283	I'll talk to you later. Don't get upset. You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u284	I didn't tell him about services that aren't part of the agencies! Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u285	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Kurublis, you'll talk about it later in your turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u287	Didn't you tell the Prime Minister that the presidential decrees have been completed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u288	We'll talk about the modernisation you've attempted! We'll talk about modernising the regression!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u289	I'll tell you everything! And for the jury, you'll tell us later! So, didn't you tell the Prime Minister that the presidential decrees have been completed? When you made these "perfects" Ministries - the super-ministries - we told you that this structure is not working. Or you'll remove them to return to the previous structure. Isn't that all cost? You are learning 'of the cows' head'. I imagine, Mr Kourublis, you will also want to speak on the issue of Disciplinary Law, when we had warned from this here the Step forward of your predecessor, Mr Katrugalos, that by abolishing the fair holiday all the jury would return, because you did not even bother to make disciplinary councils! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What do you have to say now? You come and gather the unbelievables and blame this fact that it allegedly exercised an unaltered policy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u290	(Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u291	Yeah, yeah, we saw exactly what you did. Well, your policy is very clear. You want many taxes, because you are getting comfortable with a state that is still a big one, but above all inefficient. I'm closing, Madam President. The country does not today need the policy mix that you prefer through your Programming Declarations. Unfortunately, the creative forces of Greek society, this Greece that is against the stubbornness of the times, will not be able to pull the country out of the stagnation. We are voting against your programming statements, because you have neither the plan nor the will, I fear, nor the executives, to do what the country needs, to pull ahead with confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u292	Not even a sample of self-criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u293	From you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u294	We're waiting for her from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u295	That's enough! You want self-criticism, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u296	Leave the dialogue now, you don't have to. Please, cool. Mr. Mandas has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u297	Madam President, I hope you will fulfil your duties and congratulations! Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have a clear four-year mandate and we have an even greater responsibility not only to exhaust the four-year period, but to change Greece, contributing to reorientation at European level, away from neoliberal dogmas and austerity. This is a gigantic project which cannot be the 'little David' of a left-wing island on the map of neoliberal Europe nor even approach it, if social forces on a Greek and European scale, that is, people who are objectively owned and expressed by an anti-neoliberal plan, do not put their backs on. They are indeed, ladies and gentlemen, these people, men and women, young and distracted, the low and middle social strata that have put back. The Greek paradox, this persistent confidence in the radical left and SYRIZA, even for the implementation of the necessary measures affecting these layers, certainly has its explanation. All these everyday people, the victims of the humanitarian crisis, insist on keeping the spark of hope on. All these people, ladies and gentlemen, require not just hard work in general and vaguely. They require political and class-based actions. They require a framework of stability, but also a framework of justice. We need transparency and social control. We sincerely have to say that we do not ask for the delegation and unconditional delegation, but we ask for active participation and strict social control, we ask for you to put your backs on, but also to correct us, we ask for time, patience and patience. We are calling for a great social alliance of many, because only in this way can we claim a function of society in terms of equality, justice, freedom and ultimately emancipation. Birthday 2015-July 2015-September 2015: Time dense, historian, sealed with democratic decisions. Five years of extreme neoliberal policy: over eight hundred thousand people in unemployment, hundreds of thousands abroad, dramatically shrinking the gross national product and the country's productive base. That's our bet. In the field of this reality, we are working to change it to overthrow it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard in this Chamber the tenths of what is happening to the eight-month rule and I would say that the embarrassment of our opponents - and I am referring in particular to the New Democracy - is obvious, I would like to remind you of a few things. Did you, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, forget the circumstances of a full war that we've been through all this time? Did you forget the outflow of deposits triggered by the New Democracy itself in autumn 2014 and reached the agreement close to EUR 50 billion? And I'm wondering, who's got this money? I wonder honestly. Who's got that money and they're making it out? Who are these people? Are they everyday people? Are the people next door? Are the workers with these low incomes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u298	I guess. And MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u299	Did you forget about the suffocating restrictions with the lifting of the waiver on 11 February, excluding any public funding from 18 February, by prohibiting any increase in the 15 billion-dollar limit? Have you forgotten all this? Did you forget that red loans had become an explosive problem, as recorded in the International Monetary Fund report, since June 2014? And did you forget that the ELA, which was required during the Samara negotiation period, in the'success story' period, reached 124 billion? Ladies and gentlemen, have you also forgotten that when we passed the humanitarian crisis bill, Mr Costello told us about unilaterals, if I remember correctly? Did they blame us for unleashing the terrorists when we ran into justice? Did that, when we fought against everyone to highlight the problems of refugee and migration flows, we had an incredible, systemic-driven attack and an uprising of racist speech? Did you forget all this? In this war, in this real war, we may not have come out winners, but they have not crushed us, neither the domestic tough establishment of the interlocutory and the oligarchs nor the hard, neoliberal elites of Europe. We made a compromise. We claimed, I'd say, a temporary defeat and a retreat. We have, of course, - and that is quite clear and we have a full conscience - the harsh prospect of the first, especially the month of October, prerequisites, for the first assessment. And I wonder sometimes when I hear things from different aspects of Parliament in this regard, if some people think that this first assessment should not be completed. I do not know if anyone or someone can think that this is a progressive development and that this will be something that will benefit workers in the country, the prospect. However, with responsibility and consistency, we will, in any case, have the burden of this effort and will achieve the first evaluation to be completed within this period, fully aware that these measures, as I have said before, and social strata which we want and which we want to represent, at least in the first phase. And we will, of course, also move on to the recapitalisation of the banks. And I wonder, Mr Mitsotakis, because you spoke about how this need came about. You may have forgotten that there is a little politics in this, that there are also pursuits in it, and that, in any case, we must avoid all the pitfalls and aspirations that we want to take out the 25 billion. I really don't think we're going to get into these traps, we're not going to retreat to pursuits that they want to lead us to other paths. I think that's understandable. So we will be able to open up the large capital of debt write-down and restructuring, for which I did not hear a word from Mr Mitsotakis. But how can New Democracy say about this? What exactly is that supposed to mean? I think that there is no side in the world at the moment, one way or another, more fervently or less enthusiasticly, more obviously or covertly, not to talk about the restructuring and impairment of the Greek debt as one of the terms and attraction of investments. Because you know very well in this Chamber that we have found ourselves in order to secure the financing of our borrowing obligations, a July and a August with a peak in the financial data on debt. Of course, you know that through the loan contract with the ESM we have even made a small restructuring of the short- and medium-term debt and at the lowest interest rates and with the extension of the repayment period. But the big problem - and I think that you know that and everyone knows it - will be from 2022 onwards. We must resolve and deal with this problem. I say again that it is a very critical factor for attracting investment beyond everyone else. I think the finance ministers will analyse it and specialize it further. So debt regulation, a stable tax system and law and not third-world labour conditions, not'medium-century', are stable conditions that can and will actually bring investments which you have never brought. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You say and repeat just one investment, which you welcome. Perhaps you will welcome it is a matter for discussion. In any case, you have nothing else to show over this entire period. So we have battles in front of us. And a great battle - and I would like to slowly close here, since I, too, call for the three minutes of my second speech - which we have before us is the battle in what we call a social state. It's the deep sections and the changes we're going to make. We are fully aware of this and we have a very clear health plan both in the field of education and in the field of social welfare and, of course, in the field of public administration, where the changes we want to make are very specific and targeted. Unless what we say either as parallel actions, as a parallel programme or as guidelines to us, is not that they do not exist, but you do not like them, they do not suit you. It is like what has happened with our proposal to tax the profits of large businesses more than half a million, where you have put the known establishment to trigger a reaction that has found good ears, of course, in Europe's neoliberal elite and has not gone through this measure. But let's see, when we start bringing in - and bring in - a concrete plan of compensatory measures, what attitude you will take and who you will take and who you will leave. Because it's always about it! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we have closed the parenthesis of a 'left parenthesis'. We've finally shut it down. And we finally opened the horizon of left-wing governance, the one to some who raises the hair when they hear it. But millions of eyes are on us in our efforts. We are conducive to many generations. We are fully aware of the difficulties and correlations. We move through adverse conditions, with society hurt but upright, opening new roads, with historical self-confidence and responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, too. Mr Christos Pappas has the floor from Golden Dawn for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u301	Before I place myself on the government's programme statements, I would like to point out to the Bureau - I would point out - that this afternoon we were under attack with expressions that characterize them and this attack did not interfere with the Bureau as being due from the top. In any case, we are particularly pleased that a large number of Memorandum left-wings are occupied by fear and terror about the rise of the nationalist movement. The expressions heard are an absolute confirmation that Bolshevik means hatred, envy, abusiveness and barbarism. Also, reference to the trial and to the construction against the Golden Dawn and its Members was not only unfortunate, but also dangerous for the proper functioning of Parliament. Finally, I note that the Samara paraga unfortunately finds followers and Hatziats and on behalf of SYRIZA. On the programme now: I listened very carefully yesterday to the two-hour report by the Prime Minister of the Government's Programmatic Declarations and as a Member of the nationalist movement, but also as a citizen I was annoyed and sad about the pitiful future of our country, as planned by Mr Tsipras and those who guide him. I first annoyed with the size of Mr Tsipras' political courage. He's the same man who was tearing up the memoirs a while ago. His party promised the Greek people hope. Remember the motto "the hope comes". It ended yesterday in the paradox, denouncing neoliberal policies, to become the leader of a, I would say, thirteen left. His speech was a slogan of popular speeches, which reminded me strongly of Andreas Papandreou, Giorgakis Papandreou and Samaras. Mr Tsipras' statements are incomplete and vague. He promised, like Samaras, that in twenty months' time we will have access to the markets. In other words, it admitted that the capital controls would continue, as will the Greeks' financial slavery. We did not hear yesterday a single word about debt write-off or part of the debt, but that the Greek side will try to prolong payments, reduce interest rates, develop ment clause, a grace period, etc., which fully confirms the missing Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, who had spoken of debts to the perpetrators and payments to the perpetrators. We have heard by an oral Prime Minister that with borrowings that will be charged again by the Greek people, banks will be recapitalised with EUR 25 billion. We have also heard that a new body will be set up to attract private investment and a new fund for the exploitation of public property, that is, for those who know the Greek things, new media and a new sale. Mr Tsipras, addressing the Head of the New Democracy, proposed to him: 'To work together for the good of this place'. So the question arises quite rightly: since they have already worked together for the good of this place - we insist, but the common sense also says that they have worked to destroy this place - we wonder why elections were held. Could SYRIZA clean up his inner-party landscape at the request of foreigners? On the burning issue of red loans, the Prime Minister has no concrete proposal. With regard to the public nature of PPC, airports and agencies - which should be public in an independent state - the Prime Minister spoke with wishes. The fact that the government's statements were empty is seen by a simple reading of the budget for 2016. It is a budget that provides for a recession in the Greek economy and an increase in unemployment from 25.4% to 25.8% next year. That's what the government says. The International Monetary Fund in an annual report announced a forecast of unemployment of 27.1%. And I wonder: Where will the Prime Minister find direct jobs for 100 000 unemployed and by March 2016 for a hundred fifty thousand unemployed, as he said? It reminds of exactly the reasons of Samaras, who was smelling the victory and success of his party and who announced - listen, listen! - Work for seven hundred and fifty thousand unemployed. Since when will you gentlemen of the Right and the Left, co-responsible for the current fate of our state, our people, be mocking this people? And I ask you directly, in order to reveal your untrustworthyness and the mockery of the Greek people: why did you not change the cartel people from the Competition Committee in January and continue to hold them? Why do you not seek from companies punishable for harmonised practice, namely cartel, money that has benefited from the law on money laundering from criminal activity? Why don't you collect the fines? These are the questions you cannot answer, because you are accomplices. We also heard about using the Lagard list, which is a fixed position of the Golden Dawn. I would remind you of the reply of the then Minister, Mr Nicoludi, to a timely question from the competitor Elias Kasidiari, who said that no use is possible. And the bachelor of the government's Programmatic Declarations continued with the broadband, that is, the come back of Samara's WiFi. Instead of listening to a national development plan, to regain primary production, that is to say, the basic and peculiarities contained in the nationalist movement's programme and lead to hard work - we do not hide it - to release from foreign sovereignty and the memoranda and therefore lead to national independence, we have heard the amazing thing: SYRIZA will draw up - listen! - Pan-Hellenic poverty map. So the ESS of poverty will promote education - and I have to put it in introductory terms, because it is not my own -'research culture'. In simple terms, that is, air cut off! The Prime Minister has given a popular speech in general terms on economic issues and with no reference to national issues, as if they were not there. Also, no reference to culture. But he made a very clear reference to the issue of illegal immigration, a problem which has brought Greeks to despair both the islands of archipelagos and many major cities in our country. On this subject the Prime Minister said: "As opposed to the logic of the guards and the fences, against the logic that he wants to turn European borders into a battlefield, we must work hard to prove that humanity, solidarity, hospitality, are not utopias but can be made political act." So here's Rhodes. You're reiterating that you belong to the democratic arch. You have Lenin's portrait behind your offices. You are followers and descendants of regimes that did not have elections or counted on the souls of their peoples, regimes that have been afflicted by the peoples who have ruled. So dare a referendum on this major issue. Ask the Greek people if he wants all these Muslims, foreigners in his home, in his neighborhoods. But we know what value you give the people's will, as you did in the referendum of 5 July, where you turned the 'no' of the Greek people into 'yes' to the loan sharks. Ladies and gentlemen, for us Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn Greece has only one owner. And this is the Greek people! Greece must belong - and with the Golden Dawn it will belong - to the Greeks. You're born Greek, you're not. And whatever you are bringing to Parliament, we will stand up against your plans to turn our country into an endless Muslim camp, a plan that will increase national risks and plunge the Greek economy even more into recession and marvelation. Every worker who is illegally offered to a foreigner is a piece of money stolen from the Greek worker, it's a robbery of the insurance fund. The co-government of the left-wing SYRIZA and the supposed nationally sensitive ANLLs consents to the invitation by the Prime Minister of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants, with the announcement of the creation of the first five hot spots on the islands. I wonder: What is the sensitivity of co-pilots who were threatening to give up their defensive expenditure and now willingly signed the memorandum which provides for a 400 million reduction in defence expenditure? Finally, the Prime Minister too many times stressed, being very optimistic, the prospect of four years of his government. We in the Golden Dawn believe that another four years of commemorative policy will be destructive as well as fatal for its country and its people. It will accumulate unresolved problems, create additional recession, poverty, illegal immigration and all this, unfortunately, will cause harm to the country. We call on the Greek people not to remain invincible. I would particularly like to address - apart from the proud voters of the Golden Dawn - to all those who decided not to vote, saying, 'I am sick of them, they are all the same', and in this way they have made SYRIZA - ANEL the SYRIZA. I would like, therefore, to those who did not vote, to those who abstained from saying that there is a movement that does not receive one euro state money. There's a movement that's never invited to the channel panels. There's a movement that didn't hesitate to say names and denounce scandals. There's a movement that says it means it. There is a movement which has been persecuted following sports political errands, which has also been murdered for the ideas it has given, is not taking a step back and is standing on the side of the Greeks. There is a movement that has solutions, has a programme, has a future. There is a movement for which even the leftists themselves, but also the other systemic ones, admit that it is the alternative to the future of the people. So the movement, the Golden Dawn, with firm faith in his ideas and his programme, is voting against the government’s Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u302	Mr Leventis, the President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has been speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. You want to talk now, Mr. Leventis? You can speak and intervene among the parliamentary representatives. If you want, come on. You have the floor for 15 minutes. And I wish you, on behalf of all Parliament, success in your work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was expecting Parliament otherwise. I was expecting it full, and I find it empty. And, of course, I was expecting this House anyway, to be honest, because I gave 30 years of struggle to enter the House and had dreams about it. And all I hear in the hallways is how many advisors each Member has, what rights the Member has. So far, that's what I've heard. I haven't heard anything about the people at all. And the saddest of all was the speech of the Prime Minister yesterday, which, when compared to the speech by Mr Samaras in the past and the speeches by the other Prime Ministers who preceded it, was very similar. So if you put them next door to each other, I think 90% of them are the same. ‘I will...’, ‘I will...’, ‘Everything will be done.’. As Mr Voutsis is here yesterday, I heard him say that every small party Member will speak every three cycles, because they first spoke more often and "the soup was a bit wasted". So, as thin as we can, Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u304	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u305	You don't? Anyway. I don't know what it was about the circles. I wish I could understand wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u306	That's how the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u307	However, the seats are empty. And you know that I have sent a letter to the Prime Minister, who has not answered me and who now, who is absent, will have an additional reason not to answer me. And the journalists say that I can support and be a winner of the government, and the statement is clear: if the nine points of the Centro Association are listened to and taken seriously, then I can only support the Government. The journalists are cutting off the point he says about the nine points and they say that I can support the government and that I can act as a corporation. And I don't understand that. And you know, with these nine points, if they are implemented and if they are accepted, Greece will change. There will be no double pensioners and a triple pensioner, there will be no pensioners who work when they get over 1,000 euros. Today we have four hundred thousands of retired people who take over EUR 1,000 a month and work and occupy the jobs that unemployed people have to take. And there's a lot else. I wonder, however, what advisers and partners are doing? It has, to say, SYRIZA a hundred forty-five MPs. For five, she's about seven hundred and fifty. And there's, uh, another two hundred, three hundred the party. Are these people digging? What exactly are they doing? And a countryguard, who is of SYRIZA, told me: "Take those you deserve, because all these are all families that vote." "Take..." - says - "... make use, because they are families that vote, have votes."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u308	Who told you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u309	Who told me that? I told you, a countryguard to a SYRIZA MP. I didn't get his name. Do I have to get the name and the phone from each one I'm talking to? Is it false? Haven't you made use of these privileges? Is it false? If it's false, let me know. Tell me if I'm wrong and if you haven't made use of these privileges. Because every Member gets - I know - 7 000 euros mixed. Isn't that what he's taking with everything? If it employs five consultants, the five consultants along with the premium go to about 2,500 euros a month. Five times 2,500 euros, it goes about 12 thousand. So each Member is going at least 20. We are therefore not talking about the Member's salary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u310	There's a lot of people that's distracted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u311	Mr. Voutsis said he could make a reduction in the Members' wages. What do you mean? 7%? That's probably what you mean, isn't it? Because they are also Members of Parliament who have difficulties and must be independent of big businessmen. It's always going on. When we talk about a reduction in Members' wages or a reduction in the financing of parties, what always stands for argument is that we will be dependent on economic interests. This, then, has been my dream of getting into this House for thirty years, and it has landed very gloriously in such situations. Very glorious! And I see all the journalists are fighting what I said about pensions when they're three. It's three hundred and thirty thousand people who get three pensions. He says: "Will you cut off the pensions? They've paid contributions. People have paid contributions, Mr. Leventis. Will you cut pensions?’ That's because I said to make a ceiling of EUR 1,500 a month for every pensioner. "How will you cut pensions when they have paid contributions?" One and a half million unemployed. How do they live, ladies and gentlemen? Have you studied this? Have you studied how one and a half million unemployed live? I guess not. Is there any concern in a party's programme for the one and a half million unemployed? I don't think so. I, too, find only speculation, blessings: 'We will develop', 'We will employ people'. Meanwhile, the world is leaving abroad or sitting here with 350 euros a month. This is the work of the modern scientist. And those treated this way are scientists and some with a doctorate. In any case, someone in the morning - because when I'm gone, they're dancing the mice - by some extreme right party referred to what I said when I was asked by the journalists outside: "Will you take the state money, Mr Leventis?". I say: "Subscribe missionaries, therefore, who will not take them." Isn't that right? I'm the idiot who won't get anything and you, the other parties the smart ones they get. The presence and entry of the Centrons' Union into Parliament is intended to stop taking them all and changing the climate. Unless you want the House to fall apart completely and where they meet politicians to spit him out. If we want such a thing that is close to happening - not to say that it has already been done in the countryside - continue. One party said: "Here, we at Golden Dawn do not take." I think Golden Dawn doesn't take the law. It was forbidden because of the charge charged. Golden Dawn took money properly and legally forbidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u312	Illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u313	I do not think they willingly went to say, 'We do not accept the money'. They took them normally. I would also like to say something about the JRC, because, speaking of Mr Koutsoubas in his parliamentary group days ago - I attended the ERT - he said that Mr Leventis and the Centro - and that is why the party was built - to pay for the poorest, implying that I would cut off the second pensions, third pensions, fourths. So I cut off the poor to feed the poorer. So the JRC considers poor those who take three and four pensions. Apparently, they're protected by Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u314	Read again what Mr. Koutsubas said and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u315	Oh, did I get it wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u316	Read again what Mr. Koutsubas said and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u317	All right, Mr. Koutsubas always right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u318	You're getting it out of your head. You're a big man, and you get in your mouth...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u319	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. Leventis. There is no dialogue in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u320	Like Florakis when he went with Mr. Mitsotakis to make a government, he asked for the simple analogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u321	Don't touch Charilao in your mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u322	He did not ask for the simple analogue. He asked for national resistance pensions for his people. That's what he asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u323	You reveal yourself slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u324	Let go, then. Please! He said the Centro Party intends to make the poorer. It's not like that. The JRC with its blind 'no', it helps the parties of power to become more capitalist and anti-popular. You know, blindly 'no' makes it easier for parties of power to get harder on society. Therefore, be careful, many blind 'no' are usually the unfree regimes attribute. We still have a little time. We're watching watches too, Mr. Voutsi, so we won't be more than time. Let's also say a few things about Mr. Tsipras. For five years Mr Tsipras said he had other solutions. He said that the supporters of the memorandum are traitors - about that he said - and that he has other solutions. Mr. Tsipras said: To unite the South against the North, to smash memos and to delete debts. That was the main feature. In any case, he said he was an antimony and described as "prosecutors" and "prosecuting" the tactics of the memorials. I'm lying to that? For five years this has happened. So I waited, too, when he got here, to see what he's gonna do. He's going to join the South against Vexorra, is he going to drown in the sea? What's he gonna do for everyone? I've been waiting to see what he's gonna do. After eating five to six months, threatening to negotiate hard, one night came and signed it all. I want an apology to the Greek people because some of the Greek people believed in what Tsipras said. He believed there was another solution and how he had it. Hope has come true. In particular, young people and young people have invested hopes over Mr Tsipras for five years. He shouldn't have come out to explain to them and told them that, "Five years I believed in a lie, I had some delusion, the situation was different," honestly? You know, making a confession of mistakes is brave. It's not bad to admit you were wrong. In other words, Mr Tsipras should not have come out at some point - regardless of elections - and said: 'Hey, children, for five years I have told you some things. It wasn't the things I told you to do, it wasn't applicable. And before the danger of being thrown out of the euro, I went and signed all this." Why didn't he do that? I'm telling his MPs because he's missing himself. It would be great braveness if it were done and it would be inaugurated, in fact, of a new period. And now it says, "The people give us a second chance." What's the chance he's talking about? Mr. Tsipras just played himself in these elections. Why did he play alone? Because Mr. Meimarakis had a lot of units back. It started from 12 units back and finally ended up with six units. And this deception of polls is equal - even - designed to eliminate the smaller parties. Don't have any doubts about that. Like the Centro Association last week from the five we got to two and a half. It was very organized. And one of the issues that I don't know if you remember is getting into order with polling. Because every con man can do whatever he wants, paying $30,000 to a polling company. It's over and out. The 7% distance cannot be found, nor can a party that entered Parliament present it with 2.5% to stay outside. I'm talking about democracy right now! Democracy and substance! I believe that both Chiefs, both Tsipras and Meimarakis, were aware of 7% of the distance, they simply hid it to destroy the rest of the parties and knew the fraud of the polls. They knew the victoriousness, and this puts me in great thought, that they cooperated with two parties, the so-called 'first', to the extermination of newer parties. That's not good at all. I say this to you because I believe that, regardless of parties, you should not approve dishonest behaviours. The New Democracy will take off its new Chief. We wish her the best. I'm not getting involved. Whoever is Chief of the New Democracy will surely roam around Thessaloniki and try to eliminate the Centro Union. That's their job. They say, "lost vote is, don't vote" etc. Unfortunately, Mr. Tsipras said just proportionally. He said it was a constitutional change. The Left parties had the simple analogue as their main feature. Mr Tsipras said: 'We will open a debate on electoral law'. So the chairs of power are nice. It has ceased to be a left party, because, I tell you, the left party is simply proportional. Why did he say it like that? He had to say it honestly and directly, that "we would put the simple analogy to the Constitution." This is left-wing party position. But is there today a party on the left, or has so much water been put into the wine that there has only been water? Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this first debate. I will raise a serious issue for the advisers, for Mr. Voutsi to know. I won't leave it like this. I will return all over Greece for how many advisors are, how many slow-wages the House, the municipalities and the public have. The slow-wages won't hide this time. Our mission will be to uncover the rot. I hope that all we do will have the honourable Members allies. I hope so. If I don't find allies in an attempt to clear up, it means that the House is broken and I don't want to believe that at all. Now if you ask me whether the Central Association will give a vote to the government, since Mr. Tsipras chose without even calling me Mr. Kammenos, who is more right of course as a party, he had allies. A left politician, Mr. Tsipras, who had a very honest and good father, who I knew and worked with, chose Mr. Kammenos rather than Mr. Leventis. I, Leventis, didn't ask for ministries, you know, I wasn't asking for anything. I quit. I would give the MPs and a vote of confidence, just a few things for the people, some sufferings to be burdened. That's all. But Mr. Tsipras preferred to split the spoil. So let's see how long they'll last. We won't give a vote of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. We are returning to the circle of parliamentary representatives. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Compact for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, in his Programming Statements the Prime Minister said that recently citizens feel that something has changed. In which direction he didn't tell us. The complete stagnation in the development process and the relaunch of the real economy by paralysis of the productive tissue compose the image of an extremely hard reality. Programmatic Declarations show that the government has not understood what is happening to society. Healthy business closes. Unemployment is the most important problem. Young people and young people leave abroad. Soon we won't have any productive activity. In this environment we have heard programme statements from another era about other needs of another society. The country is at the most critical point, and here we have heard reports of ideas from the government. We have had the artificial euphoria climate before, the'success story' of the New Democracy and Mr Samaras, we now have the'success story' of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras. Ladies and gentlemen, the time of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL counts from January. The shorter hasn't been zeroed. All you didn't tell us is that you received "burned land" from the previous government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks! The government during the outgoing parliamentary term did not face any of the country's critical problems, nor did it fertilise anything into new real changes. We are listening to the Programming Declarations once again only theories and goals, but not the way they are implemented. It is clear that there is no awareness of the dramatic situation in which the country has come. Is it possible with vague and vague messages and with the already failed recipes to ensure economic and political stability? Is it possible without an integrated and developmental plan for productive reconstruction, without development objectives, but without the determination to confront the government with the pathogens and malfunctions within the country, to be able to move forward with structural reforms? From what exactly is the certainty that within the next twenty months liquidity will be restored, access to markets will be recovered and that there will be no risk of the country's European course? How will social cohesion and the decline of unemployment be achieved, when at the same time in the preliminary draft state budget, both in 2015 and in 2016, an increase in unemployment is expected and in 2015 and 2016? At the same time, then, you submit a preliminary draft budget that disproves your Programming Declarations. At the same time, undone yourself. We have heard the Prime Minister refer to the immediate implementation of the agreement, which - once again - was a product of inefficient negotiation. You brought the country into a situation with closed banks, capital controls, at a summit that would decide whether or not to stay in the Eurozone, and we were responsible at that time to say that the country's disastrous choice of exit from the Eurozone and the European Union is preferable to the bad choice of the painful agreement, which you yourself negotiated, signed and brought to the Greek Parliament. And if we did not help you at that time in the context of national understanding, the country would be due to your choices and ideological obsessions of partners outside the Eurozone. That's the truth. And now you are presenting a policy which will again lead to the same deadlocks, to ask us again in a few months' time, perhaps, because of the new deadlocks. Is that how we proceed, gentlemen of the government? We must be serious about this situation. Efficiently rule! You have set three main priorities: debt write-down, bank recapitalisation and the creation of an attractive investment environment. I feel the obligation to welcome the fact that, even after five years - yes, five years - the government's proposal to deal with debt is no longer the removal of most of it and I am not talking about illegal, burdensome. We have repeatedly stressed that the changes in debt, such as the prolongation of repayment and the reduction of interest rates, are necessary. But then, from unadulterated promises, we are now discussing real data without a single apology and with the additional element that regressions in the policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL have also contributed and now contribute to the growth of the public debt. I would also remind you that the decision to restructure the public debt was taken in the European Union in November 2012 and this decision mentions until today both the Greek and the partners of the Eurogroup. But remember: the decision provides for primary surpluses, because we are once again going to the time of the deficits. Therefore, in a short time, you will no longer be able to negotiate with this decision from now on. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, is in direct need of a development shock. It is necessary to have policies that will affect economic developments in the light of development and social and economic priorities. Sectors and reforms are required in all areas, an integrated national strategy, a new production reconstruction plan in the country. We have heard the Prime Minister say that he will do anything to alleviate possible negative effects on the tough measures contained in the agreement. Does the idea of replacing adverse conditions have been abandoned? In particular, as regards VAT in private education, what does the suspension of this measure mean until the budget is adopted? Will this unacceptable measure be implemented, ladies and gentlemen? We have heard the Prime Minister ask the opposition parties to find equivalent during his speech. Do you want to or don't you want to rule? You're in the government and not in the opposition for nearly nine months. So rule, do not renounce your responsibilities. Your Government has adopted the general principle of non-activity. We in the Democratic Alliance have repeatedly stressed that development starts from the social state itself, including support for healthy entrepreneurship. We do not claim a greater or lesser state in the exercise of this social policy. We are claiming an effective state. We reject both the trade union state and the state which does not provide quality social services in the health, education and social security sectors and, of course, does not guarantee equal access for citizens to them. I would like here to refer specifically to the agricultural production sector. The Prime Minister told us that it was a conflict in negotiation, and the reality is that there was not even a negotiation on this issue. The Greek Government accepted everything, even conditions outside the acquis communautaire and adversely affected Community competition. The result of the negotiation shows that there was no knowledge of the specific issues of the rural economy in the negotiating group of the Greek Government. Unfortunately, we have heard that government action in this area is limited only to trying to eliminate in the future the harsh consequences of measures for farmers. However, you intend to bring measures to the Greek Parliament to vote for farmers who have never even thought that they might exist in the Greek rural economy. A characteristic example is the taxation of Community aid and the increase in the rate of taxation on agricultural income from 13% to 26%, even with the abolition of the tax-free limit of EUR 12 000. The acceptance of such a requirement raises key issues of competitiveness to the detriment of farmers in our country. And, of course, in most European Union countries, Community aid is not taxed, and in any case, where it is taxed, the rate is much lower. You agreed to an increase in the 100% tax advance and to abolish the refund of the excise duty on oil. Why don't you, ladies and gentlemen, introduce agricultural oil on the basis of the objective criteria, the acres and the type of cultivation? The increase in the VAT rate from 13% to 23% on agricultural supplies is out of reality. Suffice it to stress that even VAT on agricultural supplies at 13% is the highest in the Eurozone. We were fighting to reduce him to less than 13%. You denounced why it hasn't been reduced. You're here to agree to raise it to 23%. Terrible consequence of words and actions! These measures, therefore, will lead to a reduction in the production process in the agricultural sector, with adverse effects on exports, on trade balance, on the deficit. On the other hand, with the changes that have taken place in recent years farmers are now taxed as are the other professional classes. The new measures simply destroy the country's productive tissue. Besides, we were surprised to hear from the Prime Minister that he was in favour of keeping books of revenue and expenditure in the agricultural sector, which both SYRIZA and the Prime Minister himself had denounced a year ago as Opposition. You need to realize that the rural world is in an emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, we were expecting that the Prime Minister in his Planning Declarations, in his second statements, would now correspond to the will of the electorate, which, over the last three years, has been rejecting self-responsibility and obviously requires a change in the electoral law. The left demand for simple analogue is now a demand of the majority of Greek citizens and it is a real pity that a government that called itself the "first time left" does not dare to state clearly "propose the introduction of simple analogy and the abolition here and now of the 50 seats bonus and this will be the first piece of legislation that our Government will adopt, in addition to the applicable laws of the Memorandum", by opening the debate tomorrow, with a view to voting on the electoral law by the end of 2015. I read from the speech by the Prime Minister "for the necessary and necessary change of electoral law with greater consensus". Such a general reference I have to confess could not be understood. If it's negligent, fix it tomorrow. Say you're pulling out the 50-seat bonus right here and now. If it is not your priority, you are committing a serious political error and you will also be historically accountable, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister invited us in his speech to consent to the major changes required by the educational system. What changes does it refer to? The educational system is located on a path of divergence from the international and European example, because it is based on ideological approaches and outdated models of decades. Education reform is not the one made during your seven-month government. This is a counter-reform that takes us back just thirty-three years. And 1982 were other needs of Greek society since 2015. Education is an area in which the Greek Government enjoys flexibility and has the potential to promote its own policies. That is why we are very concerned. In order to achieve these objectives, the Prime Minister even called for the broadest possible consensus of the progressive forces of the country, the joint action of the progressive forces, as is the case in Europe. Is his co-pilot, the Greek Independent Party, placed in these progressive powers? Is that the example from Europe? Let us remind him that all the progressive forces in the European Union are opposed. If he doesn't realize it, let's remind him. He runs with a party on the right and calls for joint action of the progressive forces. But at this point I would also like to mention to the Minister, Mr Kontonis, who, in representing the government, referred to the socialist forces in the European Union and their role. It seems that the Prime Minister has not been well informed of the negotiation of August, the negotiation of which has made a decisive contribution to the socialist forces which have opposed the neoliberal forces of the European Union and the active support, at the time, of the Greek forces, the PASOK and the Democratic Integration and the leader, Mrs Gennimata, with her visits to Brussels. We tried and fought at that time and managed to change the attitude of the socialist parties. And of course Mr. Holland's attitude was decisive and was against Mrs. Merkel's attitude at the time. It seems that it had not been informed of all this when it referred to the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - Democratic Left, the socialist forces and the group of socialists and democrats, saying that they are still on another path. We should therefore not say things that we will see before us, because the country remains within the Eurozone and the European Union, because at that time some European forces took a clear position on the problems facing our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u327	Please finish, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u328	I shall conclude, Madam President. One of the most important problems, however, is that there is a total absence from government planning of an organised and coherent programme to combat unemployment, because the additional integration of unemployed people into employment programmes is obviously not a structured policy. One of the most important delays is indifference in youth unemployment. Silence is deafening, as if there is no problem, as if this acute problem were to be resolved. Conservation of the welfare state at levels that are to be tolerated and acceptable is not done without the participation of young people in the production process. An entire generation, my generation is affected by this crisis. He's leaving abroad and you don't have any plans. Ladies and gentlemen, by ending the government is relaunching an economic model that is incapable of producing incomes and jobs. We cannot, of course, consent to a policy that will bring the country back to the same deadlock. There is no production reconstruction plan. You do not have a complete plan to create jobs and to combat unemployment. Reproducing past mistakes and continuing to have ideoleptic obsessions and delusional ones. The policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is neither progressive nor reformist. The Democratic Reconciliation for all these reasons will vote against the Programming Declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u329	Mr Pafilis has the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Madam President. If anyone were trying to make an assessment of the Memorandum by now, but - I imagine - and tomorrow's debate on the Programming Declarations, he could say that the main feature is a partial confrontation of the Memorandum now, which includes SYRIZA and beyond - not to describe - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which now went through the Memorandum Arc, which has fought for so many years and said that the contrast was between the Memorandum and the Memorandum, with the other Memorandum Components, namely New Democracy, PASOK, Potami and Kentrous. Don't be in a hurry. For the Golden Dawn, I'll say for other reasons. And this objectively shows that in this House - anyway, objectively and not to bless our beards - the only opposition from the point of view of the people's interests is the Communist Party of Greece, with this power that we have, we are conscious of. However, the only force that defends the people's interests against the barbarity of the memoranda, as you say, measures - we say it a little differently - you only painted them in memorandum - is the Communist Party of Greece. This causes various 'problems'. It causes New Democracy to feel awkward, to make no criticism in SYRIZA of the unexistent things, as Mr Vorides used to say about the Soviet Union, which is not here. SYRIZA never said of Soviet, alas, "fucking, far away!". He never said such things. It also challenges PASOK to feel justified because it says "You found us and you also come and bring a memorandum". He feels right and you deserve it, you deserve this policy. It causes Potami to push, like others, for quicker implementation of anti-grass measures and Centrons to make the ladder on certain things. Really, a man who worked in the mines thirty years in the dark, with the danger of falling down every day and tearing him down, and he gets a 600 euros pension is rich? For Mr. Leventis' enthusiastic speech. Really, the airborne who's on PPC's columns five to six hours a day - those who know about work - and made EUR 1,600-1,700 is rich? The builders who worked in other circumstances and may have been retired are rich? That is why we say that he is a 'cow'. He's a lad for what's coming. And we repeat that he is just a "crowd" because he wants to load on those who have little judgment to give to those who have nothing. We have heard no talk about the fat, the luxury, the unscathed wealth that exists here. Did we hear a word about the huge interests? And I would like to say one more thing, addressing the Centro Association. This is where we all know each other, Mr. Leventis, in this place. It's a small place. We have names. We have known since the students' years that we are here a little older and therefore a little crowded. And the notion was. So I keep going. What, then, is the controversy? Confrontation is who better, we say, will implement - it will probably serve - the capitalist development path. Are there any differences? Of course there are differences. No party is the same as the other and from what interests it serves. But strategically, is there a match today, yes or no? To put the real issues on the basis of the Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations. What were the memorials and the memorial? Wasn't the requirements of capital, monopolies, to overcome the crisis in order to return to profitability? Can anyone say no to that? They just came together, abruptly, wild in our country. And here there was a difference. It became God's scourge, but it wasn't God's scourge. They were familiar with all this. It required capital for many years. On the occasion of the crisis, then, he was found bringing everything together. So let's see how it is placed, and if we are wrong, when we say that SYRIZA now - we said it before - has the same strategy, and that is why I said it eats the bread of the New Democracy and the rest. We'll analyze them. And not to hear another time that "we have no memorial logic" that someone said. I mean for SYRIZA. So let's see if we're overreacting or not. What, then, did the capital ask for in the crisis? First, to pay the workers for the crisis. Did they pay her or not? They paid her. Pay the big capital, yes or no? He didn't pay. Today, with a SYRIZA government, who's paying again, Mr. Manda? The workers. Where's the difference? Second question: What did the chapter require for many years? It required the labour force to be cheapened, that is to say, paid as low as possible. What's happened all this time? These barbaric policies have been implemented. Yes or no? They cut wages, cut pensions, there are working relationships "jungle", working with 100 and 200 euros, prisoners, modern slaves. Yes or no? That was the requirement. What's changed? You'd sketch the Memorandum. You shaved it? Oh, no. Have you changed this situation? Oh, no. Are you changing it today with the Programming Declarations made by the Prime Minister? No, nowhere. He only slided "stadium reinstatement of 751 and a parity compared to young people". Gradually and "lived May to eat a clover", which was supposed to have happened. So you move on exactly the same path, yes or no, beyond theories and social and all, but practically with your policy and Programmatic Declarations? Thirdly, what was the requirement? In the European Union too, they have been discussed everywhere. Reduction of social costs to a minimum. What for? It's not that they don't want people to be good. Their interests look, for two reasons: first, to save state funds so that they can go to private individuals, namely investors, in large capital, and, second, to open up a level of profitability in the fields of health, education and everything else. Because when someone dies, he sells his house. And he tells you, "If he sells it, I'll take it." That's how capitalism works, good or bad. A win wants and the profit is on the blood. So let us see this: there has been a reduction in social spending over the years with the memoranda, as you say? You got it. Is it happening today? I do not understand this sensitivity 'we will reconstitute the social state'. With what? After you've reduced all costs. Aren't you cutting them every year? Didn't you commit to reducing them? How are you going to reconstitute it? With savings and all that? Of course, we have no objection. But will this even bring back the little crumb, the so-called'social state', which was conquered by struggles in capitalism? So you don't have the same strategy? Fourthly, privatisation. Privatisation and state-run capitalism always serve the interests of capital and never the social system. When they could not invest in the past, because they needed a lot of money and had PPC's long-term performance, OTE etc., the state took over. When they became profitable, the Greek people paid them, gave them back to individuals and backwards. That's all the time. So, now that you have used all the others, do you commit to doing all the privatizations, and indeed, by name, for all these sectors, yes or no? You're committed. So where's the difference? If they're gonna sell out, what if they're gonna sell 100,000 or 50,000 more euros? From a strategic point of view, you're on the same line. Fifth, state - reform. Of course they need reforms in the urban state now. What do you think? I want to read them, but I don't have time. You are talking about reforms which, first of all, favour entrepreneurship - that is what the New Democracy says - and that is what PASOK, Potami and all others, that is what the European Union is saying - and a state that benefits the citizen. Of course they will. We have technological developments and such reforms will also be carried out that will benefit. But what is the core of state reform? Don't tell us that you want to make a state-of-the-art, a state-of-the-art mechanism that serves people's interests and is against profit and everything else, because that is not what you dare think about! So you have a strategy coincidence in this area with the others? Six - this is where the confrontation took place - investments. I would not like to reread Mr. Tsipras' speech at the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce. I've read her many times here, and you know her. What did he say? "With our own policy you will have greater profits." That's what he said to the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Greek Industries. The New Democracy, because you eat its bread and you steal its politics, is why it is shouting now because you have given land and water. The Prime Minister and the government are talking about investment, they're talking about creating. What does an investment paradise mean? Don't let us all go crazy! Is there any chance that an investor will come if he doesn't make big profits? How's he gonna make the big profits? The technology? First of all, who makes the profit? The labour force, the burglary exploitation of labour force, and, secondly, the infrastructures that exist and the wealthy sources of production. This is what you are struggling with with the New Democracy. So where's the difference? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Give me all my time, Madam President. Seventh, liberalisation of professions, the OECD toolbox, which you have accepted. Where does that aim? That's what we say in the wooden language, but it's scientific, concentration and concentration of capital. He wants to get the little guys out of the way and take all the fields. Isn't that the point? I imagine you agree. Don't you accept all this? Where do you disagree with the New Democracy, the PASOK and everyone else? Nowhere. You disagree that you also put some wrappings. In other words, they want these self-employed and what they exist in small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. It is important that the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission should be involved in the legislative process in order to ensure that the European Parliament and the Council are fully involved in the legislative process. So, what are we talking about? We are also talking about the world that listens to us - to what conclusion do they lead to? That you have the exact same line, with individual variations. All right, there are always others who have individual variations, but they do not constitute any change. What do they recommend? I'll say it now because you're happy sometimes. They recommend the maintenance of illusion that capitalism can become a human being and this is the SYRIZA's largest "contribution" to the capitalist system itself. This is that you maintain the feeling to the Greek people and in general that you can make a human capitalism. Says the Prime Minister: “What do we want? Capitalist development with - he did not say with a social face - a social sign." And because we know how to read words, we understand. Really, so you show us how there's a growth based on capital, which is decaying, that wants to earn more and more, to have social status? Capitalist profit means the intensity of the holding. Objectively, no one can prove otherwise. Unless you mean extreme poverty. But, you know, extreme poverty also has Obama. Of course, now with Obama you're in love big. American imperialism, the toughest, the heinder, the cynicalest of all mankind, has now become a model, especially in this area of extreme poverty, i.e. the piles, even in 2015, to forty million Americans. Is that what you mean, he's got a social badge? What, then, means growth to the benefit of the people? Development to the benefit of the people means that those who produce wealth also have it in their hands. And this "man above profit" - where you remembered it truth - collapsed with the global social forum. Is it now built? It seemed strange to me. I thought I was in Porto Algire, 'cause I've been to all of this. Where did you remember that? Is there any chance that the man will be above the profits in capitalism? But the driving force in capitalism is the profitability of capital, which is the driving force of growth. It is what the New Democracy says more rawly and you say it will bring new jobs, increase wealth and live well and the others better. And people who have business groups and others are getting worse and worse in terms of needs and opportunities. So, at the moment, don't blame us for levelling up and not seeing the differences. You're fully integrated. We talked about it. We weren't surprised. We had described them. We told you that you are not going to remove the memos, but you will bring in new and worse. Because anyone who goes on the capitalist path of development, with monopolies in power and within the European Union cannot do anything else. The laws are'solid'. They're the ones you're gonna implement. It can't be done. You either change it or follow those laws. Now it's the reality. The Prime Minister, too, has kept the agreed implementation in mind. I was very impressed by the fact that the whole of the parliamentary group. He said: "Let's end with the agreeds, so we can move on to the second phase that we come out of the memoranda and go to development." Really? Just like that? Which one's agreed? Have you measured what account the workers will pay from tomorrow, from today to later? Have you measured what the measures you signed and stated and declared to all tons that you will apply them? They're going to kick more of the workers. You'll take them down. And what you say about parallel programs and compensation is a myth. Even if you have the intention, it depends first of all on the course not only of the Greek economy, but also of the crisis in general. And here comes the program of Thessaloniki as a lesson that you taught and you couldn't do anything, in fact. Because what you did was individual. Also, there's the automatic cutter, as it's called. When you're over, they're cut straight. The second thing you say is that 'we have the negotiations open'. Really? It's a rhetorical question. We ask you: are you serious, when you say that in negotiation and openness, can you bring philosophical solutions? Are you serious? Get out here and support it. Why didn't you do it before you signed the deal? Negotiation on open issues will be getting worse and worse. You say 'We negotiate the OECD toolbox'. What does OECD toolbox mean? It means liberalisation of the market and violent displacement of the self-employed. You say 'best practices' and people don't know. What are the best practices in the European Union? The working jungle in the countries of great growth. The Netherlands has 40% parttime employment and pretends to have no unemployment. Both Denmark and those who have been tested. What does it mean? Middle Ages. You're not gonna bring any better than that. You'll bring worse measures. And reintroduce 'Europe'. So what's changing? Isn't that what you said before? Changed? It gets worse and it gets worse. In fact, you say - little modesty - 'the changes from Greece are going on worldwide'. That's what SYRIZA's rapporteur said. Okay, everybody can see their shade and think it's a boy! But if you mean that what's going on here, how the Greek people live, move on and on worldwide, we're giving you them! We tell the people that there is a road now to stop and extract a hard folk struggle. Just don't be afraid. Solutions on top not to wait. He needs an organization, a popular alliance, a struggle to win everything he can and stop what he can. Nobody listens to anything. He's tried all governments and all versions. When the system is threatened, when the people's movement is directed like this, then they may retreat and it will be temporary. The second objective for power is that there is a way out. In the law of profit which is inhumane, we say 'human needs'. In capitalist property we say'social property'. In the anarchy of the capitalist development road we say "design", design not like what Mr Vorides said. SYRIZA never says about such a design. Such design means that you have the means of production in your hands and not that the capitalists have it. We are talking about exploiting the rich production potential in general to the benefit of the people. I'll make one final comment. In closing, Mr Tsipras said that his objective was - also speaking about the Constitution - to give power to the people. Will you bring any article that abolishes the exploitation of human beings? Will you bring any article at the same time that says that the means of production and wealth belong to the workers? We imagine that this is a forbidden word. So the illusion that the people have power if they don't have the economy in their hands to stop. Stop playing with such concepts. We will be at the forefront and, as things have happened, we are disproportionately burdened with the power that the people have given us. But we're both trained in them and worse. We believe that we will respond to the demands of the Greek people and many of your own people who have voted for you under blackmail and great dilemmas that are nonexistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u331	Madam President, I would like to speak on a personal point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u332	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u333	As a Member of the Union of Centres, I do not accept to be called a "rabbit". I am present in Parliament, I am not running. The second is that Mr Pafilis has mentioned to the Members that he knows us all, implying that he knows our bad aspects too. So please, at least as far as I am concerned, refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Carras, please. Because you are a speaker after two speakers, you will have time to develop them. I appeal to you to listen to me so that we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u335	Okay, Madam President. I just felt indignation and wanted to put it in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u337	Madam President, I want the floor for five seconds. If the time passes five seconds, stop me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u338	Let go, Mr. Paphie. You spoke before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u339	For five seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u340	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u341	I'll beg you not to scratch in the goat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u342	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u343	Now this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u344	I'm ready...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u345	Let's move on. Mr. Theocharis from the river has the floor for twelve minutes. Thank you very much, Mr Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Pafile, don't worry, it's not only globally that SYRIZA extracts practices, I think now in the solar system I heard that after the discovery of water on Mars and Mars' EMCDDA made a call for recruitment! So there's no problem. Don't worry, there's exports! [[Noise - laughers in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh! Don't be afraid! Ladies and gentlemen, we are here in the same spectators' work, the same government as in January without hope. Hope became a blade, as the JRC said in an election? Maybe! The only thing for sure is that the blade cut, shaved, trimmed the Thessaloniki program, but in the Memorandum it stumbled. The same government has no hope, less and less lies, but lies! So let's start from the point where we should be done, so we can be clear. You're asking for a vote of confidence. We're not giving it to you. Why? Because you represent everything that has brought us here, everything that has not been able to get us out of the crisis. The Prime Minister yesterday said he represents his voters, not all Greeks. I recommend rereading the Constitution. We do not give a vote of confidence because we and you are not friends, we are political opponents, because our friends are your enemies and vice versa. You have a friend of the sworn civil servant, we have a friend of the conscientious. You have a friend of the Minister's "pig", we have a friend of the patriotic civil servant who keeps the service upright while the "pig" is sitting. You have a friend of the farmer who lets apples rot to get subsidies, we have a friend of the farmer who after the field gets on the internet to see what other countries do with the raisin and innovate. You have a friend with a gun pluralism that prevents investment, we have a friend the businessman who collects against the current signatures to invest, create and hire. You have an opponent who drinks the blood of the people, we only have an opponent who, while making 5 euros, wants to do 10 with a black job. You have a rival to the student who wants to study on time without losing six months. We have an opponent of the "student father" who, ten years after entering the university, shares student care and favor to candidate teachers. The list is endless. What's the point of continuing? Abyss separates us. "We are every word from the Constitution of this country and we will serve it to the end," the Prime Minister said on February 10th. "We are every word from the memorandum and we will serve it to the end," you said in fact yesterday. You're asking for a vote of confidence. We don't give it to you because you're liars, not the generator of lying was an avalanche, not the program of Thessaloniki that if there were any belligerents of political lie, you should all be released with ribbons here in the House, all of you, not all of you, because you said that the markets would dance with your duoul and yesterday Mr. Tsipras spoke about investors more than Mr. Samaras. You're a liar, because you continued lying in these elections too, because the Prime Minister went on to lie yesterday. You have no excuse anymore. You're not politically naive. You're six liars and you're talking about the new one. I'm scared of you! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Before the elections, you lied about a new negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u347	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u348	It hurts you, I get it. You don't have to get upset. The truth hurts you. You're not renegotiating. That's what we heard yesterday. On Saturday you negotiated, on Monday you forgot her. It was hidden by the Prime Minister in the phrase "we are forced to proceed without time in the first evaluation of the programme". Goodbye, negotiator. You lied about the parallel program. He described it to us yesterday as the Prime Minister for the first time, for the election of the parallel project was in a parallel universe, it was a programme - "fantoon". But yesterday we had the unveiling. What did we hear? Firstly, the'second presence' will be in twenty months. Wait, unemployed. Wait, workers. Wait, investors. Wait, retired people. Wait, sick. Wait, students. Wait, students. It didn't reach five years of dismantling, it didn't reach seven months of destruction. It takes twenty months to wait for Nirvana. Secondly, the first third of the parallel announcements is a memorandum, that is, they do not belong to the parallel programme. It's in the Memorandum. Assessment of public, e-government, integration of insurance funds. Even the bank administration announcements are a memorandum obligation, corporate governance for the banks. Thirdly, the second third of the nonexistent announcements already exist. The Invest in Greece already exists and is called the Invest in Greece. Farmers' aid has come from the European Union, since the 1980s. I mean, a little embarrassment. You'll soon be announcing the IMPs. Also, employment programmes such as those that ran and ran with European funds, recruitments already in the budget, changes in organisational programmes that have just been completed and you will be doing them again from the outset. Fourthly, the last third of the heavy announcements is unclear or unadulterated and will therefore take the road of the Thessaloniki programme, namely moving cards, national social security systems, another streamlining and simplifying the tax system like so many others again. Be careful, however, only concerns tobacco and spirits. Smuggling fuel shone in his absence. Realism and recognition of your inability or subjection to interests? You're asking for a vote of confidence. We're not giving it to you. For as long as you denounce the corruption of oligarchs, you serve it more consistently than the previous ones. You are talking about changes in the administrations of the banks, and "SYNEY" has already started using the hammer argument about the delinquency of administrations that have always rescued corrupt banking administrations, while you have done nothing about the problem you have suddenly been complaining about for seven months. You haven't done anything for seven months. You have only changed the administration of the National Bank with the same criteria that have always changed, that is, partisanly. If the administrations are to blame - the Prime Minister has not told us - for the destruction of the banks, what are you going to do? Will you let them go without being punished? You're just going to change them? Will you send prosecutors? Why don't you tell us your intentions? Why do you keep building villages here? You talk about small and large corruption in public, and you opened wide open doors for the jury, while you ordered 500 million worthless planes of fifty years. Your former Minister, Mr. Quiet, says so. LOCKHEED MARTIN says so too, the company that gets the commission. Imagine asking a painter to paint my house and tell me, "but he doesn't need to paint." What does that mean? Isn't it weird? You're talking about the corruption of others, but your ministers, the minister of 12%, the minister whose mother made the money from the bank, the contractor who gets jobs but also has a office in Maximos, never answered the essence. They're just moral because they're left-wing. That is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard about 'will' in the electoral law, 'will' in the revision of the constitution, 'will' also be made to media licenses. As long as you do not solve the problem with the media licences, you are distorting democracy. Because you can or is used as an extortion tool. You ask for vote and consensus and support, while you do not clarify the landscape in the briefing. Think it over. First you'll clear the media and then we'll talk about who's supporting who. But the culmination is different. With the powers given by the Prime Minister a moment ago - listen, listen - a mirror of corruption was institutionalised. So far we have been saying that media and investment are not going together. It's where we have corruption. You all remember the naive attempt of the New Democracy to solve the problem with the main shareholder. So what are you doing? You're joining them. You are responsible for media and investment in the same Minister, Mr. Pappas. Institutional, in other words, imprinting and plunging corruption instead of fighting it. No more lies. I wish we'd make a mistake, even though we don't think so. You're asking for a vote of confidence. We're not giving it to you, because your inability has brought us here. Pick the wrong people. And except those who left on their own through the People's Unity, you didn't change anyone. They left on their own. We see a government with the same failed materials, simple recycling of positions and people. It can't be done with teachers, university, who worked 15 hours a week at the university and want to do the same at the Ministry. It can't be, flirting with drachma scripts as long as you're supposed to negotiate. It is not with unprepared appearances at the Prime Minister's global investment audience that the Prime Minister cannot even answer what investments we want. We cannot govern or negotiate and we cannot do both. It is not by losing one and a half billion from the ESRB. It can't be shutting down the banks. It is not possible with the Minister of Migration better than the Minister of SYRIZA. It is not done by extensions of limitations which reduce the collection of the tax administration. We have heard the same mistake of repeating it today by Mr Alexiadis. It is not without the word 'tourism' once mentioned. Yesterday it didn't sound once. And you'd do a sectoral policy. It's not hiding how you get back the minimum you do, the hundred doses for example. Take it back. They do not deny the constitutional right of the citizen to education. Why is it that you leave someone who can't afford to pay 23% in private education and takes his child from private school to take it to a public school, which has no teachers and is closed or backed up? Aren't you legal, constitutional and morally accountable? Of course you are. Ladies and gentlemen, the river did not come to the political stage to say 'no' only. We don't need credentials, I think we've already proved it. What is right, reformist, progressive, will support it. We are not doing and we have not even made these seven months a sterile opposition. We're here to say what we're proposing, what we expected to hear. We expected to hear a goal and an indicator that will improve: How much you will reduce child poverty. How much you're gonna reduce childhood mortality. How much you will increase the rate of poverty reduction from the implementation of welfare and social policy. How much you will reduce the percentage of uninsured or excluded from the Health System. How much you're going to reduce unemployment. How much will you increase employment? Will you stop the fall in GDP that you brought back? Will you shake it before the accumulated 30% of GDP in 2008, which was the last year of growth? How much are you going to reduce the cost of bureaucracy until when? How much will the collection of taxes, VAT in particular be increased? That's all you're telling us about. How much are you going to raise it? Do you know how much it is? How much is it, you know? You said nothing because you don't know what you can achieve. You don't even know what you want to achieve. I am sure that for the first time here and now you hear me that the government must have objectives of improving certain indicators. We in the river are making concrete proposals and I repeat some of them. We're not just critical. In institutional and corruption: launch of the Constitutional Review process with specific content. And I'm saying it on the road because they've heard it before. Among other things: the abolition of a law on the liability of ministers, non-profit universities, the democratisation of the parties, a direct change in the electoral law by abolishing the bonus and breaking the major regions of corruption, a single independent authority outside the government with prosecutors to deal with corruption, open data on public and transparent everywhere, on the Internet, not only financially but also objectives, to see which service it works and which does not. In economic, tax and unemployment: direct state balance-setting, with the valuation of the largest assets initially and everyone else at a later date. You don't want it. As the previous ones didn't want. Because as long as you don't have this you can't even judge whether the price you sold is good or bad, but whether the comrade you put in has destroyed the property or destroyed it. So here is why there is your unholy and unholy alliance with the previous ones. The stability of the tax system. Only every November with the budget changes in taxation. Create a DU for natural persons and the admonition - we welcome and welcome the adoption of the action of the business plan that we had taken on the eve of the 2014 elections - for the DUs to accept only on appointments. It's a good move from Mr. Alexiadis. Mandatory use of electronic invoices for companies with more than 30,000 euros. Incentives for smaller enterprises. Exemption of 40% of enterprises from the vertebrates of VAT. Two coefficients of 20% and 10%. Repatriation of non-taxable funds from abroad. Transfer of HISBIA to the municipalities. Removal of the trade charge and incorporation into taxation. Integration of taxes and levies to combat black labour. It's a lot. Zero taxation for three years for new businesses. Automatic clearing of debts to public and Treasury. Immediate return of VAT for exporting enterprises and... and... In public administration: the selection of all the leading agencies - you do not want it! - and institutions, starting from the Secretary-General with merits and transparent criteria. What public administration are you going to make? How will cousins and friends implement the evaluation? I, for the sake of evaluation, would not agree to be appraised by someone like them. Electronic governance system ‘e-Hellas’ in the standards of the best country in the world, Estonia. The ability of the heads to change the agencies' organograms, as long as they do not create costs. So we'll have flexibility in public. So we'll be able to make a public friendly. I could go on in all areas. We have proposals for culture, refugee, health, education and justice. My colleagues will say more. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to waste. We'll help you with what you're doing. But you will not solve the problems of the country. You will not even try to solve the problems of the country. You don't know the country's problems. That's why we're not giving you a vote of confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u349	Madam President, may I have the floor? I'd like to use the two minutes of my three-minute speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u350	Now, however, we must continue the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u351	I won't need a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u352	Here you go, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u353	I could welcome and welcome a serious dialogue in this very small second part of Mr Theochari's speech. But the unbelievable and peculiar narcism of this party has led it and it has led it to today, unfortunately - and I say it really sadly - to incredible accusations and vulgarities. We're returning them. Let them look very carefully at themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u354	You're teachers in these, buddy. You're teachers in these!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u355	You can go out and say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u356	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Fisherman, sit down, please. We said to keep a level here. Mr. Papachristopoulos, come on. You have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u358	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u359	Calm down a little. Anyone who doesn't have temper can get out a little bit of rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u360	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u361	Mr. Fisherman, you can tell them out. We have to finish. It's too late. Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u362	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that I was dreaming and dreaming of another Parliament, without blame to anyone. I believe that we can coexist here with different views in mild tones and, above all, with arguments, not characterisations. We'll see. I think something better will come out of the new parliamentary term. First of all, I cannot resist the temptation to say that for us Independent Greeks literally, I would say, there was almost our "implementation" mandate. All polls until Friday morning gave us 2-2.5%. We ran to the neighborhoods with the psychology of the lost vote. "Doctor, good and holy child you are, but in the House you are not going in." That's the third time we've felt in our toes this popular mania. The first one was in January. The second in the referendum, which we all know 'yes' would mean a collapse of the government, wouldn't it? Let's not underestimate it. The third was in these elections. A little grievance, I'm saying, there's something going to change. And to avoid misunderstanding, I am neither in favour of prosecuting nor prosecutors nor anything. And right now, it's about our party and SYRIZA, which the shortest zeroed to SYRIZA. The eight and a half units in January became zero. In the referendum the twenty-two units were zeroed and recently the seven and a half units again zeroed. I believe that something needs to be done there, because it is a basic rule of democracy. And there might be other percentages in the parties and in the big and small. I'm closing this parentheses. I was not going to talk about the past at all. Trust me. I think we should look forward and see what can happen from now on. But I cannot, because I have heard many, extreme expressions, "false", "usable," "for apologise" and so forth. Please forgive me, therefore, an expression of extremism, because I think we should answer the toughest questions. I would like to remind you, therefore, that a permanent argument by some was that the fateful evening of 12 to 13 July 'no did so', 'you betrayed us', 'you did us' and so on. If anyone had any solution - and I am not talking about those who were judged by the world and are out of Parliament today, I am talking about the rest of us - that night to tell us. I don't apologise for that night, though. And I would like to praise all the Members who voted the same with me, because I believe that self-conservation instinct and not the party line prevailed. To keep this, because I believe it unites us. It's not bad, but it's good. But I cannot hear the same argument. If anyone had any other solution, she'd tell us right here. He didn't. I would also like to refer to the harsh question which says that 'no you did so, yes.' Some even tried to blur this not. Colleagues, I believe that it may take a long time to objectively assess what happened and perhaps take years. But let me give my opinion. I have not seen a Prime Minister wanting to kill himself - because I hear this theory - that two days after the referendum decided in this House, he will close the banks himself. Because that's what it sounds like. I believe that the historian of the future will see who would then turn public opinion against this government. He'll see why at 12 o'clock Friday night some media said there's gonna be a haircut of eight thousand or more. He will see why I am an old Europeanist - I believe in the euro, in the Eurozone - did not even have the right to self-determination. So much democracy! I am also listening to a permanent argument: 'He has taken us to elections to solve his internal problems'. I ask the question straight: When they question you forty-five Members and you are a decent man - not even a Prime Minister - what are you doing? You pretending to be the Prime Minister? You're going to an election. A fundamental reaction to any person's dignity, in this case the Prime Minister. Let's go to the rest, 'cause I heard about apologies, disgrace, lies and stuff like that. I didn't mean to, but I can't. I want to remind you how this country was governed, with arguments. I want to get away from the categorisations completely. And I speak with absolute respect for all parties in the Greek Parliament. I believe there are many honourable Members - perhaps the majority - in all the parties. So I want to remind you: How was this country ruling? Do you want me to remind you how some friends were taking the NSRF? Do you want me to remind you how polling companies - I have them written here - received from six million each? You want me to remind you how under the nose of the four rulers, five bankers are currently indicted? Do you want me to remind you how three, four canals and some bankers in an orderly service have had a piece of civil servants who legislated for five hundred families? Do you want me to remind you of the hundred and more names that Sikashek gave German justice in the most official way that they were bribed by "SIEMENS"? Do you want me to remind you how ATE Bank managed the money of Greek citizens, the five billion, with a thousand grand-loans, with addresses and names, and who was behind it? Do you want me to remind you of the thirty-five thousand NGOs? You want me to remind you of six and a half thousand offshore that no one's made sure to check? Do you want me to remind you of the list of Lagard roaming roughly for two years? Do you want me to remind you that the Competition Committee has been ready for the six companies that took the projects in a strange way for twenty years? Do you want me to remind you of the overpricing of the Olympic Games? Should I go back to the Stock Exchange? This reality he has received, friends and friends - apologies, colleagues and colleagues - this government. No one held it and it was decided to be a parentheses. I may be wrong, but that's what I think. With nails and teeth blackmailed all seven months. And I say it, because I hear the argument: 'Why did you not catch up with it, why did you not do nothing about corruption?' Where, how? Who could? Do you want me to remind you of one blackmail after another? Do you want me to remind you how many times the deal arrived at 200 million and the prerequisites were coming out at that time, like the rabbit from the coacher's hat? Do you want me to remind you how many times we have heard the word 'Grexit'? Do you want me to remind you how we learned new concepts like bail-in? "They cut you off the deposits" and left the banks 52 billion. Who left who? This government, which no one held. Here I'm going to say something about the JRC, which I really respect. Once the JRC was imprisoned, exiled and executed. Today is not what is happening, but what is happening is that the parties you don't have to vanquish them. The country was looted. I am not saying that it has not been done properly but has been looted, ladies and gentlemen, in the last forty years. It's not just five. That's not an exaggeration. They happened - I say - and that's right, and not everyone plundered. So there's a warning difference. We are all talking in this Chamber about investment. Who will come to invest in a country whose reality is this, as you heard? And if anyone disputes her, I have the numbers, and I have a lot more. I could talk by morning. Nobody. What I believe: that tax evasion must be struck at the moment - and I believe Alexiades is doing a great job there, and his opponents recognise it - corruption and complexity must be struck - and here we want everyone's help, it is not just our work, it is everyone, the whole of this House - we need to change the media landscape, not re-insurgents. Because it's a disgrace! Do you want me to remind you how the governments changed? How did the Prime Ministers, one after another, get or not get paper? Have we forgotten? And, above all, some must be punished. Because they are not a million and a half unemployed, they are two and a half million unemployed. Four million are uninsured, three million below the poverty line. Three hundred thousand young children abroad. Five hundred thousand padlocks. They say many: “What did you do? The situation has deteriorated.' Yeah, he got worse. It has deteriorated because this government has never been in power. He was under extortion. Let's be honest. And I hear the words'memorandum, antimony' very often. With the exception of the first time, where Michael Ignatiou - and not some of ours - has written with certain evidence that we could avoid it, this throat, as Spain has avoided it, and we have not done so, from there on and on you say, "You are memorialists". So what? Are we accusing you of that? We're talking about regular looting. What I said was what? Are they related to a memorial and an antimony? None. I mean, then, and I'm ending up: that right now and I wouldn't have said that if I hadn't heard... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, would you like me to finish or will you give me two minutes, the time I may be entitled to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u363	Because everyone's asking, we've gone back to the program. Keep going, you got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u364	You got a minute. Don't miss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u365	You have a minute anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u366	I would like to say this: at the moment, unemployment together with the lack of any production process, and above all deinvestment, the padlocks, make a twin explosive: unemployment and a huge debt. Is there a way to get over it? Because, unfortunately, the risk and zeroing of the second six have been done for many. Yes, there is. Is anyone who thinks in the next five years can invest in our country of 80 to 100 billion? No, it's not. 20 billion can be invested comfortably in the new NSRP, 4.5 by the end of the year. Can they return any chapters of what they left? Half of them returning, that is, on three conditions. Is there stability? Is Grexit stopping? Does the phrase ‘deposit haircut’ stop? If they return only 50 billion of all those funds that have left, it's a major boost to investment. Third, can we attract investment? We can. Why can we? There's investment inertia, war zones. No one invests in the eurozone because it has no profits. Greece, on the condition that I said before, is currently an attractive investment pole. Fourthly, I see that there is a programme at the moment by the European Investment Bank. It's this giant Juncker program. Can we come in, too? We can. We can take advantage of Draghi's credit relaxation, which is out of one three.Huh? We can. It's over 20 billion. Can we make good use of 20 billion of the low surpluses? We can. Finally, I would like to remind you that energy, tourism and transport give a great prospect. Do you know any other way for any form of energy, at least in the southern European countries except our country? Our geography is very helpful there. Tourism you know it's in the spastics. My friend Elena Koutura did a great job and not just. There is a huge prospect, a great turnout, and the infrastructure is still in the spasm. Thirdly, with regard to transport, where will China and India carry? To us. War zones exist from above and below. The new and lucky thing for us is that it comes into Iran's markets. Old Persia stopped the embargo. They are already investing in Iran and now Iran itself somewhere will ask for export companies. I would like to say this: our country can - and here I beg the old saying'man's authority' - be it from now on and within a very short period of time to take off without re-organisations, without designations, without evils and nothing. In conclusion, I would like to say this: We, the Members of the Co-Population, will be more stringent in matters of moral order and in general in matters that have been afflicted by Greek society for over forty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos will now come for 15 minutes, because he has just returned from abroad and leaves again in the morning. So, Mr. Carras, you'll be waiting right after you get the floor. I'm sorry about the change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u368	I can wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u369	Ladies and gentlemen, I had anticipated SYRIZA's victory with three - four units of difference. The surprise was that it was seven and a half. But now that I have heard Mr Theocharis' speech, it seems to me that this was a very small difference. That is why I have a very popular reason to listen to in this Chamber for a long time. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] In other words, the idea of the Potamius that the SYRIZA Government has university professors who worked for 15 hours when they were in university, and now they are working for 15 hours at the ministries, I think it is too much for the discussion. And it shows that if you want a political plan, if you want a political plan, if you want to have social reports, you can't be led by the media, Mr. Theochari. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I think that yesterday the Prime Minister announced a roadmap on how we can go next year. He said that the first assessment must be finished, that the banks should be recapitalised, that there should be a debt debate, that the demand should be returned, and then that we should go to important reforms, but that they should also have a social and a class mark. Of course, as you can see, the Ministry of Finance will have a very important role to play in the success of this roadmap. I'm starting with the evaluation. It is important that this first assessment is over quickly and ends successfully. I feel that following the organisational changes that we make to the government, we are in a better position to coordinate this very difficult task in order to finish this first assessment. I feel, of course, that we are ready to discuss and negotiate four, five, six, seven, eight important issues. Those of you who have children, especially in adolescence, know that it's some battles you can't win. And if you're gonna win some fights, you have to put them in the band and focus on what's important. The same applies to our own government. We have major battles that we want to win for red loans, pensions, labour relations. However, we know that in order to win these great battles as well as in industrial relations and the return of collective bargaining, a very large political campaign is needed both in Greece and abroad. One of the successes of SYRIZA is that there are too many people now listening to our voice. There are many Europeans, many trade unions, many social movements that want collective bargaining to return to Greece, because they know that if they do not succeed here, there will also be a spread in their own countries. So, because we have just opened this debate, we can hope that we will create these alliances for this negotiation. I could say the same about pensions. Look, for the first assessment there is no doubt that there are too many difficult things. One of the difficulties, however, is that we have policies and institutions that do not respond to the problems they can answer. Did we cut early pensions in August? We cut 'em. Does he create a problem with someone who becomes unemployed fifty-seven years old and is it very difficult to get back to work? Creates. However, the pension system cannot respond to the unemployment problem or the problem that we do not have good insurance for the unemployed. So we have to solve this problem, not through pension. Is it a problem that in some rich islands the VAT rebate has been reduced? It's a problem, because there's a poor world on rich islands. But the tax system cannot respond to this problem. He must have an island policy. Are we creating a problem for too many farmers because the taxes on farmers are increasing? We're creating a lot of problems. However, it still cannot be solved through the tax system, but with a development programme aimed at the farmers you want to help. And this programme will be presented to the institutions in October. I do not like and do not detract from how much the cost is for very important social groups. They are, however, transitional problems and we have to deal with them by making institutions and policies that respond to the real problems. I am now going to the recapitalisation of the banks, which, as you all will understand, is a very complex problem. He has too many players: He has a bank, he has the CFS, he has the government, he has the Bank of Greece, he has the SSM. It's a complex problem with many players. The government's line is that it must be done quickly, that we must support shareholders, whether they are the government or private. And we have to find a system that ensures that banks' money goes and lends where they have to go and not where they have to go so far. There is a huge issue that we need to resolve for the system of banking governance. And perhaps a solution is to unite this problem with the fund to be created. And as I have said before in plenary, it is an opportunity for Greece to have a fund that can be organised, to protect Greece's assets and to pay off the debt, but at the same time also to be able to give something very important to investment. I go through the debt issue we've discussed many times here. And here there are many players, there are many interests that disagree. But here, too, the great victory of SYRIZA is that it has internationalised this issue. The whole of Europe, the whole world is talking about debt, how it will be done, how it will be done. This internationalisation is the one that has given a great hope, that after the first assessment the problem can be solved. While we had previous governments like Mr. Mikauber, from Carolo Dickens's David Copperfield novel, they said that the debt is viable or, at best, something will come about. That was Mr Mikauber's motto, in his poverty, that we have no answer, we have no strategy, but we hope that something will come about. The difference is that the SYRIZA Government has technical training to solve this problem and, at the same time, it creates these social and political alliances that take it very seriously. I return, however, to the question of growth: If the first assessment is made, if we manage to recapitalisation the banks and if a debt solution is created, we can believe that in the short term this compressed demand in Greece will be released. In other words, the consumers who have money will consume because they will no longer be afraid, the savers will return their money to the banks, because they will not be afraid of Grexit or the collapse of the financial system, and, of course, the investors will invest, because they will not be afraid of their investments. In this context can very quickly remove capital controls. We have another good news: Our forecasts for the third semester are much better than what we estimated in August. This was based on the Prime Minister who said yesterday that we can go back to development. We could not incorporate these results for the third quarter, because they are not yet results. They are predictions, but we all feel - and we have also convinced the institutions - that the results will be much better in the third quarter, and so we can also be more optimistic. We have no doubt, however, that how successful we will be and what will happen in the Eurozone. Mr Stavros said yesterday in his position on the preliminary draft budget that the Eurozone is going forward, while Greece goes back. I have to tell you that Mr. Stakoras is Dr. Panglos of the New Democracy. You'll remember - because you have urban education - that Voltaire had said that Dr. Panglos was someone who thought things were always the best in any strong world, that is, he could never do better and he was making fun of him. I imagine that Mr Stakoras says this and because he is the People's Party in the European Union, and so he must support Siomple and Rahoi and that the Eurozone is a successful example, while the whole world says that the euro area is the disease of the global economy and has a huge problem. And no big country within the Eurozone today, says the IMF, will reach 2% growth, neither in 2015 nor in 2016 nor 2017. And it's not just the Eurozone. We see that in the global economy there is also a deterioration, a slowdown in growth, there is a debate on monetary relaxation that Europe is currently doing and America. But I have to tell you that we do not have monetary relaxation worldwide. With the rise of the dollar many developing countries are forced to buy their currency so that there is no devaluation. And that reduces, as you can see, the amount of money that exists in these countries. So, we of SYRIZA insist there is a triple crisis. There is an economic and social crisis. There's a geostrategic crisis. There is a climate crisis. This crisis is all over the place with an increase in inequality and an increase in corruption. You will all remember 'ENRON'. Everyone will remember the 'ARCLEY'S', which has had the interest rates on the private debt. You will all now know about 'VOLKSWAGEN'. If I am not mistaken, ladies and gentlemen of the right wing, that is private corruption. It's not public. The large cases of 'Enron', 'ARCLEY', 'VOLKSWAGEN', are corruption in the private sector. Should you rethink the idea that corruption is always related to the state alone? Should you think again about what SYRIZA says, that corruption is being dealt with not with more markets, but with more democracy and social control? The question comes into the Treasury: In this crisis and within this agreement what can it do? What can it do when we have uncertainty in the economy, when we have a lack of confidence in the institutions, when we have a reduction in the democratic environment in which decisions are taken? The usual answer is that the Minister of Finance is trying to bring about stability. We will try to do this with the recapitalisation of the banks, with the closure of the first assessment - the Ministry of Finance has over 50% of all the decisions to be made - and with the debt debate. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] A left Treasury, however, also asks different questions in relation to stability. Stability for why and for whom? That is the difference between a left approach to things. Because we want to create this stability in order to have the development plan in the agricultural sector in October and March 2016 to have the overall development plan that will have the quality elements. We want a development plan which will also have social justice. Even the IMF says inequality does not help growth. The OECD tells us: "Come together to conduct impact studies, how the various measures affect 20% of the population". We will have a policy at the Ministry of Finance that will always have a class mark. That is why any increases we have had to the expenditure limits we announced yesterday in the preliminary draft are also for the humanitarian crisis and for the hospitals. Finally, the big thing is to give space to the major changes in the state in relation to corruption, tax evasion and public administration. Today, before me, did Alexiadis speak, who presented a wide range of interventions that we will be doing in the field of tax evasion. I have to tell you just one example of myself, because I see many and many who have been here in the eight years of the Simitis, which was'modernisation'. You know, ladies and gentlemen - something I didn't know - that every morning I sign some transfer papers from Xanthi to Alexandroupolis? Where have the modernists been all these years? And underneath it has fifteen more signatures. Why is that? In order to be able to ‘park’ this application and to come up with this nurse and tell me, will you not go ahead with the application? And I say to her, "Do you have to vote for SYRIZA in your village, in Xanthi?" Is that modernisation? This is all you can understand, that forty years after the post-Civilization, the modernists could not change it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I just need a minute, Mr President. I told you what our main objective is at the Ministry of Finance. It is to provide room for radical intervention elsewhere, public administration, social economy, health, education. It's a collective project, all of us. We either succeed together or fail together. I say something every symbol must say: left-wing people go into government to do radical things. If we stop doing radical things to stay in the government, we've lost the ball. And it's up to us not to lose that ball!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr Tsakaloto, for your respect for time. The Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Karras Georgios and Mr Dimitrios, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to wish the Bureau a good parliamentary period and a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u372	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u373	I feel an honor for the Prime Minister and the Ministerial Council. This is the first time the Centron Association's presence today. We feel a great honour to be heard, Mr President-in-Office and Mr President-in-Office, as well. Previously our President, Mr Leventis, has been placed, so, Mr President, I am not going to make use of the whole 12-month period. I shall confine myself to six minutes, in a short position, because the contour has already been given from the point of view of the Union of Centres. I would therefore like to say the following. The Centro Association, traditionally expressing the middle space, has had a strong presence in society for twenty-five years. Good luck getting into the House today. We've come in with hope I have to say. We came in with an optimism. Unfortunately, however, the timing of our entry into the House was a bad time for the place. It was already the third memorandum, which existed in Greece. We are therefore entering a time when the Greek people and, in particular, the space we wish to express - the small and medium-sized, the householder, the small-professionalist - is in a bad situation. So we hoped that, after five to six years since 2009, this crisis would have been tackled and Greece and the economy would have been raised, but society more. Unfortunately, however, at this point, we see that there are problems that are going on. You will allow me to give two examples: There was a lot of talk about the economy today. I don't want to get into technical details. They have been analysed and the analyses will continue tomorrow, but I would like to address two points: prerequisites and a parallel programme. Prerequisites: The prerequisites we are hearing, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are unclear. Indeed, I've seen the contract, I've read it. There are many different points, but there is no conclusion that they can be implemented. We are, therefore, afraid that the so-called'required' will simply be another tax, under another cloak. If that happens, then we will now have a temporary period, possibly, of little relief, but in very short time we will come back and look for new measures and new solutions. In this sense, therefore, the Central Association doubts whether prerequisites can function and deliver. The second issue, which is crucial to the economy, is the recapitalisation of banks. In the banks, therefore, there is a more technical issue, but also economic ones. We therefore say that banks should be recapitalised, regardless of who the capital will be - the private or the public sector - who will give the money. At the same time, however, red loans should also be regulated. What does that mean to us? It means that red loans should be derecognised as banks' losses or sold to some funds or I do not know how else they will be dealt with. So, in this sense, the funds that will arise for the recapitalisation of the banks, we fear that they will be held as reserves and as security funds for the banks. They won't be channelled to the open economy, so that the microprofessionals, the small shopkeeper, the family man, the simple housekeeper, can take some money to enable the economy to move. Another point I would like to raise in Parliament on the question of banks is as follows: allow me. I think we are on the third or fourth month of capital controls. So right now, we're all living maximized with 60 euros. Not the business, but the families, the workers. Those who have a small income live at a maximum of 60 euros a day. They're out of capital control. Has it been studied what will happen that day? And why am I saying that? There are family needs. There are people who have suspended their children's marriages. There are people who want to repair their home. I am afraid, therefore, that they will rush the banks to raise the few savings they want, so this money will be withdrawn from the banks and the banks will need back-up. Another issue is HISPIA. THE ENVIRONMENT is not repealed. The real estate market is zero right now. Good or bad - distorting, if you wish, in our view - the Greek economy in the past twenty, thirty years has been based on building and public works and, above all, the private economy in construction. Today the building does not exist. The construction sector has been zeroed. So the HNPH, which is imposed on capital - not on income or on income, or on income, could have the return of a property - we think that it should be re-examined as a reason that the government may have to deal with it - no matter how much we know the need for a memorandum or as much as we know that it strengthens the country's finances in this year - the fact that it will become a further cause of cloning and in the future more money will always be needed to move the economy. Why are we talking about this, ladies and gentlemen? We are talking about the following: because as far as the economy is concerned, we believe that the public sector has covered a serious part of its needs for the next three years. It is funding, the lenders provide it, the partners provide it, as you would like to call it. The public sector is therefore being financed. However, it is not enough to finance the public sector, because the public sector as it works at the moment and with the examples I have given, is undevelopmental. Furthermore - and I shall be brief, because the President has covered time, Mr Leventis - I shall speak about tax evasion. We are talking about tax evasion and we are saying that we will carry out checks and cover a large part of the country's needs, collecting either undeclared taxes, fines or anything from abroad, such as funds that have gone. You will allow me here to make a personal report, in addition to political statements. An object of my office, my work, is tax affairs. Of course, after my election as a Member I am not in this direction again. My experience, however, has shown that this money is not collected. They can't be collected. As much as they are charged, however much as we have fines of hundreds of millions, thousands of euros, these can only yield a very small portion of that sum which will be entered into a budget or budgeted. Why am I saying that? For they have either concealed, or at the time when the fine is issued, or in the light of the poor situation of the courts, the injuriousness, if you wish, of the bad procedural provisions, those collected which we consider to be given, respectively cannot be recovered, even if they have been established in cash, even if they are entered in budgets. So, at this point we're scared, if you want, I can say. What - and I shall end, because I do not want to abuse more time, I think I am honoured that the Prime Minister is here too - I would like to conclude that you voted for the previous House - we were not present in the House, it is the first time that we are - a new Code of Civil Procedure. It has been heard that this Code of Civil Procedure will speed up the trials and succeed in speeding up enforcement, so as to clarify the cases concerning either a part of private requirements or a part of public requirements. Because I have to say that the public's claims of a private nature go to the civil courts. However, the issue has not been dealt with and we fear that it will not be implemented either. A committee came in, filed a draft, passed as a code, the Civil Procedure. Very soon there will be questions in the courts with the first trials to be opened. There will be individual rights issues. Topics will be raised in the Code of Civil Procedure and in particular in the enforcement - an agreement with the European Convention of Rome, the known ECHR. So that's gonna be a stir. So we think - and by summarising what I would like briefly to say - that the moment for the Central Association is not the right time for the government to vote for it. We shall vote against this programme. But we are willing - because our position is close to ordinary man - and we will wait critically to see further action. And where the situation can be improved, we will be sick and help. And we are ready to discuss national issues in particular of the critical issue of immigration. Our personal view in migration is: Yes, refugees are separated. Yes, there is a matter of immigration of non-refugees. They should be recorded, promoted. All this will be good, because there are also humanitarian factors which we cannot overlook. But we have one issue. The government, in cooperation with both the UN and the European Union and the other world actors, should work towards addressing the source of the problem. Following Russia's entry into the bombings in Syria, the problem will be intensified and migration will be equivalent to the migration that occurred during World War II, which moved millions of people to save themselves. So Greece can't afford this weight. I would ask the government, in addition to the petitions, to give some weight to this point, because at this point I fear that there is a risk internally. To sum up, therefore, - and thank you for your tolerance and your attention, Mr President-in-Office - I say that we are not prepared to vote for the government's vote on these issues which have been referred to and, in addition, on previous issues, above all political issues, said by our President. I particularly referred to practical issues. This does not mean, however, that in future we will not be present, with criticism and understanding, when problems are dealt with, in cooperation with all the political forces, to help with our few powers, with the few possibilities that we have. We want to be present. Thank you very much for listening. Prime Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u374	Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u375	We thank Mr Karras, Parliamentary Representative of the Centro Association and the time economy. Although we recognise that honourable Members have been wronged by the great accumulation of parliamentary representatives and ministers, we will give the floor to Mr Amanatidis, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs for eight minutes, and then we will then go to the Quartet of Members who have already told you that they have been wronged.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u376	I'll have to talk first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u377	We'll see, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u378	By decision of the Bureau, when it speaks with the Minister, it follows a speaker from the Qualified Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u379	You're right. You can start, Mr. Amanatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u380	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, reading the Programming Declarations is more than a step forward in presenting our Government's roadmap, both overall and by area of responsibility. It is an opportunity to convey in every direction, within and above the borders, the message of the consolidation of political and economic stability in our country, after the last national elections, giving the impetus to relaunch Greece in a globalised and competitive environment. A stable political and economic environment, which is undoubtedly the basis and guarantee for an extrovert, dynamic foreign policy, a product of wider domestic political consensus, aimed at strengthening the relationship between the Greeks of the Dissociation with the mother country, strengthening the international image of our country and our national brand name, to use an Anglo-Saxon term from business strategy, relocating Greece at multiple levels in the international environment. The above, together with the reforms that we will be promoting in the next few months, are the necessary and sufficient treaty for the country to leave the crisis. With our vehicle the invaluable potential of the Greeks of the Diaper, continuing the long-term effort of the state to interact with Greece, it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to leave Grexit in oblivion and focus on Greform - Greece reforms - by sending a message of strong reformist will across the planet. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dispersion is an important part of our history. It is part of our national identity, achievements and our international image. Its existence is the result of a long history of immigration, which for most of us was not a matter of choice. After reaching the 21st century, we believed that those circumstances belonged to the past. However, the 2008 economic crisis has contributed to depriving our people, particularly our young people, the jobs and opportunities they deserve. Since the beginning of its term the government has taken the strategic decision to invest the time and resources needed to rebuild Greece's image internationally. However, I believe that our strategy and the enormous effort needed to implement it will be fully justified when our policy gives us the first tangible samples. Both the Prime Minister and the relevant ministers have opened a dialogue channel with the homosexuals on stimulating the diaspora to become more active part of national efforts to create investment. In the countries where the expatriates live, we can extend our access to the local market through our action. The homosexuals, having the dual experience, are excellent ambassadors and capable negotiators. Entrepreneurial networks can be established and the direct flow of foreign investment to Greece can be positively influenced by the exchange of information and the activation of the necessary mechanisms. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks abroad should be seen not only as sources of funding but mainly as partners for development. A stronger relationship between the national centre and the Greek community is appropriate and urgent. The strategic involvement of the diaspora established in a medium and long-term capacity to assess needs with a clear emphasis on the transfer of information and skills could be the starting point. Particularly important is the role that Greek scientists could play in decapitation from the crisis, given the importance of science and technology in improving living conditions and economic development. Scientific cooperation and the conversion of Brain Train into Brain Circulation between the diffusion and Greece can positively affect the situation of the transnational communities. Therefore, the use of the skills of Greeks living abroad is in line with the direction of development policy and could help to improve the gap between supply and demand for skilled scientists. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, we are working on a two-way, closer and more substantial relationship between the relatives and the metropolitan centre, on the one hand seeking to resolve the chronic problems and to satisfy their constant demands, such as education, tax and pension issues, the vote on Greeks, and, on the other hand, their stronger contribution to the issue of productive reconstruction and the development of the country, the development of tourism, the attraction of investment and even cultural diplomacy. In this context, by legislative intervention and by seeking the maximum political consensus, we are reviewing the organisational framework of the Council of De-Democrat Hellenism, placing particular emphasis on the democratic self-organisation of the institution, the strengthening of its prestige and its effectiveness within and outside borders. With the Ministry of Interior, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior, we have already started the debate on the question of the vote of the Greeks of the diaspora. I hope that at a later stage we will be able to discuss both the parties and present positions on this issue. We are implementing upgraded hosting programmes with targeted actions and providing for the maintenance of contact with participants, as well as for the scientific use of the conclusions, a fact - especially the use - that was missing in the past. It is necessary to stress that in this area of our foreign policy for the Greek diaspora we will make use of and continue the policies that have been implemented over time and consensually by the majority of the political parties, as they have also been formed through the operation of the Special Permanent Committee of the Parliament for the Hellenism of the diaspora. The policy of wider consensus - and let me stress it specifically for this area - will be our main concern. We also call for the creative contribution of other political parties in this direction. As far as cultural diplomacy is concerned, which is also within the competence of my own, despite Greece's strong cultural advantages, this sector has remained anaemic to date. Its development must start from understanding the possibilities it offers, because it helps to create a basis of confidence with other peoples that policy makers can make use of to achieve political, economic and military agreements. It creates relations with nations and peoples that exist beyond the changes of governments. It can approach important members of foreign companies more easily than through traditional diplomatic routes. Another crucial area, but especially privileged for our country, is the area of religious diplomacy. The dynamic reappearance of public religion on the world stage has complicated implications. Religious factors contribute to a new dimension of confidence and legitimacy and therefore increased influence on the diplomatic process. They are respected, often even as world spiritual standards, and can guide easier. This gives them enormous influence over certain political powers. Religion is a crucial diplomatic area as a source of major influence. In view of the fact that States bring with them tangible resources, such as power and capital, religious factors bring intangible resources, such as respect, confidence and devotion. Both can work effectively to strengthen the country's position in the international community. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] To conclude, Mr President, I think this is important for the Statement of Programmatic Declarations and it is the Ministry's bosom. I'll be done in a minute. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, we work by organising an international conference in Athens on "Religious and cultural pluralism and peaceful coexistence in the Middle East", focusing on the humanitarian crisis experienced by the peoples of the Middle East. Two words about Greek-language education abroad. Our educational policy needs to be combined in this area from now on with a series of measures that will adapt to the particular educational and cultural conditions of Greeks and those that are reintroduced by educational staff, educational content and teaching methods. Of course, this is a major role for transnational agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the activation of all state forces together with the mobilisation of the Greek dispersion are the best basis for a new start. That's why we're working, and that's why we're gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr Amanatidis, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. In Step I'll call Mr. South Mitaraki. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that SYRIZA has managed to win two elections and a referendum in a very short time. The Greek people honoured you with their vote and their trust. He gave you a second chance. The opposition in the difficult days of August, despite the fact that you have brought the most infamous memorandum we have seen since 2010, supported you for not finding the country in a dead end. But you no longer have help from us, because you now have to face the harsh reality that has three elements. The first is that you must finally govern, deal with the essentials, leaving the populisms, propaganda, communication policy, stop opposition to opposition to opposition to opposition, deal with the real economy, with the private sector, with small and medium-sized enterprises, with exporters who face the difficult economic situation because of the capital controls, because of the fall in the country's credibility, to deal with injuries that you have created with your choices in education, immigration, public administration, such as the issue of the perpetrators that I understand you will soon correct, such as the issue of the absorption of the ESRB. We have listened to Mr Tsakalotos in an academic speech describing major problems, but we have not heard him describe solutions and we need these solutions today. We have heard the ANEL Parliamentary spokesman say that the government has not been ruling over recent months, under various circumstances. Secondly, you need to get the country out of the vicious circle of recession where he returned in 2015 after a positive figure in 2014. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, 2015 is ending and time begins slowly - slowly to make an account. In 2014, the country had a positive mark on GDP. Partners, international organisations, analysts predicted in 2015 that GDP growth would be 2.9%. Yesterday the government with its budget expects a recession of 2.3%. This is a 5.2 unit of GDP difference and you need to explain to the Greek people where this difference comes from. Unemployment in 2015 will be three points higher than we expected. And you need to explain that to the Greek people. And it's not numbers here. We're talking about people. We're talking about unemployed people. We waited for a surplus in 2015 for a third consecutive year and finally we have a deficit. Not, however, as the government has described, a deficit to alleviate burdens on taxpayers. We are taking measures, and we have deficits, and we are therefore increasing the public debt. We therefore have a memorandum which increases taxes for many categories of our fellow citizens, for example for farmers and islanders. He says the Minister will come up with a plan. Yeah, but the measures are already here. People pay, and we're still working on the plan. There's cutbacks coming. But can I tell you something? Let's see the policy mix. 62% of the measures in the new memorandum are taxes. 38% are expenditure. It's just the mixture of George Papandreou. It's just the repetition of the first memorial to tax and it led to a recession. While the second Memorandum was 2/3 costs and that is why the Greek economy was able to reintegrate into positive growth and reduce unemployment in 2014. We have never spoken of a success story, ladies and gentlemen. And I hear it many times from SYRIZA colleagues saying it on television and in the Chamber. We say, however, that the country had begun to stand on its feet. There was a road to 2015 and now we go back. The third tough reality is investment. We finally realized that we need investments. Mr. Prime Minister went to New York. He met with the same investors we met. You spoke at the same conference of the relatives I had the honour of speaking to you last year and you said nothing new. You didn't say anything different than what we were talking about. But what has changed is the credibility of the country. But I cannot comment on you talking about corrupt publicity. And indeed there are issues of bureaucracy, there are corruption issues that need to be solved, and we must all solve them together. But it doesn't help to advertise them abroad. Outside we need to talk about Greece, which is innovative, for Greece that exports, for Greece it produces, for Greece that wants to progress. The most important thing you must finally tell us is what investments you want. Why did you talk, Mr President, about the need for different investments, but you did not actually say anything. Let me ask, for example. You want privatization? If you wanted privatisations, you could have already done some in 2015 and worked in new projects. Do you want public works? You could have increased the Public Investment Programme. What public projects did you start in 2015? Mr. Spirtzi, I hope Chios airport will be once. Do you believe in the public-private partnership? What PPP projects did you put into the program this year? Do you believe in the great plays of fast track? What kind of projects did you do this year? Maybe you believe in small investments, small and medium-sized ones. In 2014, 2.4 billion projects of small and medium-sized enterprises were signed in the Development Act. Do you know how much they signed this year? Zero. The Ministry of Development has not signed a small and medium-sized enterprise project under development law. So, you don't want privatisations, you don't want public works, you don't want PPPs, you don't want big fast track projects, you don't want small projects. This is the reality of 2015. No investment has been made in this country. You want to talk about the previous period? The study of the JEP in May 2014 speaks of 27 billion investments with a name. One by one, it's called, it's described, who's invested where. Find that. Mr President, just to say a word. Many in this Chamber say - perhaps many in society also believe - that the memorandum is a one-way path whatever government is elected. It's not true. The memorandum is the middle road. We can go better, we can go worse. The country can remain in recession, because we have not invested, and you have to bring in new measures. On the other hand, we can recover the credibility of the country, believe in the private sector, believe in the Greeks who want to create, bring investment in the country, have better GDP, have greater surpluses and therefore degrees of freedom to make sustainable social policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u385	Please, Mr Spirtzi, you have the floor for a minute. Mr. Spirjis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Metarakis, I'll see you tomorrow. We just won't do and we won't design projects on the basis of which the Minister of Infrastructure comes and where the Minister of Development is elected and the Prime Minister is elected. We have another plan for the country's public infrastructure, and you must respect this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u388	However, nothing happened in Chios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u389	Don't have a dialogue, please. Mr. Ilias Cameroon has the floor from SYRIZA. For six minutes, Mr. Kamaterre.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a debate on the Programmatic Declarations, I believe that we Members are invited to make comments, suggestions and specialise in specific matters. My contribution can only be experiential, since I am in the Dodecanese Prefecture, and I have lived in Kos since I was born, so I will have to experientially refer to refugee and islands. The refugee is also an element of islandity. What do I mean? That it is strong in us because of the specific nature of the islands, because refugees have easier access. Illan became a symbol throughout the world a few days ago. These days, who knows - few - that in Kos a few days ago we had two Eilans and in the past few days we had even more people of ours who had their bodies on the beaches? Who can stay unarmed in front of this phenomenon? Who can remain indifferent when women with young children are on the beach when they are in the rain and in the air. Yet some are playing political games on these issues. And those who say that SYRIZA has opened the border, and they know very well that it is doing nothing but respecting international conventions and obligations. He doesn't do anything else. Those who say they don't guard the borders, but they don't tell us what they mean, because they know very well that at sea you can't put fences even if you wanted. They know very well that even ships walls to build, you can't drown people in rubber boats. Unless that's what they mean. But let them tell us. It is the people who say that there should not be centres on the islands, because there are centres, they are erecting more refugees and immigrants. Of course, they ignore that these people have gone through so much that they don’t count on anything and that the slave traders who send them don’t care how they go where they go. Finally, those who say that the centres are hitting tourism. Even so, to take it and leave the humanitarian side of the issue, what is most affecting tourism? Being hospitable and having people in conditions of fundamental human life, or having them in parks and streets without water and no care? So all those in these respects give Mr Cassidy the right - and all the 'Cassidy' - to hear him here today - if there are representatives, to take it - with a great deal of courage to ask the Prime Minister that he cannot go to Kos and go to Mytilini. Because to Kos, if I remember correctly, he said they'd get guns. Something like that said, people will take us with guns and not just yogurt. Mr. Cassidy, we live in Kos, and we know. Of course, you might have been put on the carpet and raised your percentages a little. But those who did were punished by the people. And where they expected SYRIZA to be devastated, it came out with twelve units different from New Democracy. And if he thinks, in any case, Mr. Cassidy can save us, let him come to Kos to join a candidate for a mayor and see. However, the problem will also be solved by the actions initiated by the previous government and will continue. Already the Prime Minister said yesterday the proposals. I do not need to mention them because I wanted to refer to another issue and, more generally, to islands. But I cannot answer what Mr Vorides said about investment, that investment is only done when there is a profit. Yes, Mr. Voridis, profit, but no looting, no robbery. Because what's going on right now is a robbery. I'll tell you why. And Mr Mitsotakis said that with growth he means 'work, jobs and jobs'. Yes, Mr. Mitsotakis, business, but no work. Because what is happening in our region - and I will close with that - is a characteristic example of how we mean growth and investment and how they so far mean it, so far, so that we can understand the difference. The model of tourism development that has been followed over all these years in our region is nothing but ending the wealth of our country by the few, by the big and foreign agencies. Even 2/3 of hotel wages stay abroad. Everything is broken and workers work like idols with 500 and 600 euros a month for twelve hours a day. These are not investments or growth. I would like to end, Mr President, because we are very interested in this. For the reduced rate of VAT, which has been abolished in the islands, they say there can be no equivalent or compensatory measures. And we're being swamped by those fingers who have left the coastline for so many years as monopolies that the islander can't travel. The ones who left the planes in monopolies so the islander can't travel. The ones who left the hospitals so the islander could die. Those who left public services and closed taxes on the islands, so that the islander cannot be served and run from island to island. That's all equivalent. Because it's people's life, it's the lives of islanders. And because I have no time, the Isle Members have tabled the proposals and must be included in the development programme presented by the Minister, Mr Chakaloto, in March. I am the only one to testify here for those who do not know it - and I am sure many do not know it - is the transport equivalent that has been applied to the European Union in many countries, Norway, Scotland and France. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kamaeros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please enter the Minutes. It's only one study, which is very big. These are the contents. And there are too many studies, which I would ask all Members to take into account when they are called upon to take their seats into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr. Ilias Cameroon. Step is now called Apostle Karanastasis by SYRIZA for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the beginning of the new parliamentary term. The climate of days is reasonably dominated by the major issues of the implementation of the agreement with our lenders, the reduction of weaker classes with equivalent measures and the restructuring of debt write-downs. No one disputes the fact that the country is being mismanaged, wrong choices and practices of the past have been found in a bad economic situation. The problem today is that from bad government manipulations in 2009-2014 the conditions that were set for us and accepted for aid were unbearable and led the country beyond the economic crisis, in an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. It is now certain that most people now agree that our country's debt is not sustainable. The previous SYRIZA government has tried with all its powers and has achieved a new agreement that explicitly provides for the negotiation of debt restructuring and allows our economy with appropriate manipulations and with appropriate equivalent measures to be rectified. It is the agreement of August that the most opposition parties have voted poorly and are now renounced by calling it the "SYRIZA Memorandum". It's okay. We know they're used to not keeping their signatures. We will respect the agreement that we signed, taking all the appropriate structural measures. The aim of the new SYRIZA-led governance will be sustainable development with social justice. The first concern should be to restructure the state. Decades of distortions and clashes, customer relations between the governments concerned, anxiocracy, dystocia integrating new technologies have created a bureaucraticly structured and functioning public administration that is a brake on development and tormenting the citizen in every contact with it. Today we need modern and flexible public administration that will provide practical solutions with speedy, flexible and widespread spirits to the problems of citizens' daily lives and will support the public interest. A modern state supports above all research, technology and innovation. We have young scientists and entrepreneurs, seriously trained with open minds that they see in the future, when our state structures are firmly oriented in the past. We're sending them all to the outside. And this has to change. Support for innovative entrepreneurship is a key weapon for the country's development. It is critical, of course, that it is the infrastructure sector, without which it will not be developed. The system of production of projects and planning of infrastructures was oriented towards serving interests that with a non-transparent supply of a narrow oligarchy of the old-fashioned political system. At the same time, this system was focused on the dual Athens-Thessalonica, alienating its region and potential from productive activities. We need a new regime in public and private projects that need to be done through sound, modern studies, with clear budgets. We need to find a new right way to promote contractors through a worthwhile and imprecise system that gives opportunities to more shapes to participate in competition procedures. Through an up-to-date productive development plan, priority should be given to the infrastructures that will be supported in the light of the country's balanced development. Projects must not be carried out. Obviously, there are transport, road safety, telecommunications, energy and resource utilization and will have a central role in this new project. Before I close, I would like to focus on a number of issues relating to my region, the Fthiotis County, but have been projected throughout the country. Maximum topic for us are the major projects - PATHE, the main motorway in Greece, the high-speed rail system - which spread almost throughout the prefecture. It is imperative that we look back at the concession contracts - within these are the frontal toll stations, the tariffs - of those of those of projects which are subject to such contracts, as the Minister has promised, so that everyone can use a modern and safe motorway. The integration procedures must also be speeded up, particularly for PATHE and rail. It must be said that it is a disgrace to remain incomplete, having started thirty years ago. I do not believe that those who ruled this place feel proud that we still do not have an electric railroad and do not have a highway in Athens Thessaloniki. We also need to see the financial programme again in 2014-2020, the known NRP II. We're in 2015 and the program, even though forward-looking hasn't started yet. But with such delays, we don't have growth. In addition, development - it is certain - is not without a Public Investment Programme. An important issue for my region has been mentioned before, and it is taking advantage of the opportunities offered by thermal and historical tourism. In Fthiotida we may have the largest gathering of thermal sources in Europe, Pottered Vurla, Thermopylae, Hyperpsia Bathrooms, Platistomo. After all, Gorgotamos and Alana are just references to the map of Fthiotida. The largest brand name in the world, at Thermopylae, remains unexploited. There is no plan for tourist development within a few miles of the area bridges two and a half thousand years of Greek and global history. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I am interpreting the feelings of most of you, regardless of parties, reminding everyone that Greece is not just Athens. Athens brings together half the population of Greece. However, we in the region are the other half of the moon and we like it, provided we are not its permanent dark side. Ladies and gentlemen, you know and we know very well that we need to run on all issues, on all aspects of government work. The country must be governed and I am sure it will be governed properly. I wish the government a success and a good service to all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr. Karanastasis. We invite Mr. Ioannis Aivatidis from Golden Dawn for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like all of us, I have listened with due attention to the reading of the programming statements by the Prime Minister. These Programmatic Declarations were distinguished by political narcissism, apathy and relative discomfort in dealing with the real problems faced by Greece, obviously, due to excessive satisfaction with the recent electoral prevalence of its party. As far as this electoral prevalence is concerned, only one explanation can be given and this is not a political one but a scientific one. The government, like the previous Memorandum Governments, has caused the Greek people, the unsuspecting popular masses, a psychological phenomenon, the well-known Stockholm syndrome. The challenge of emotions of fear for the further tolerance and impoverishment of the people, with a weapon to the ethnic-corrosion memorials, has created fascination, feelings of tolerance and sympathy for the people to their Memorandum and German-mobile commanders, just as it had happened in Swedish hostages in a 1973 robbery in Stockholm. It should be noted that those suffering from Stockholm's syndrome have very negative feelings for their potential rescuers, which is analogous to a percentage of the Greek people for the Golden Dawn. In this period of time, the troika of the so-called European institutions has been devastated. The SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état, in no way convinces that it has the will to curb it. Only a national government of the Golden Dawn aimed at achieving Greek self-sufficiency in food, medicines, fuel and weapons systems can achieve this intercept so that the Greeks survive and do not sink any further into the moving sand of the monuments. The Greek people are suffering a peculiar genocide through the memorials with poor and consequent hypogenicity, a multitude of suicides, poor public health services with state responsibility, not the responsibility of doctors, invasion of Islamic, false war refugees. That is to say, as Greek nationalists, we are by definition humanists. Above all, however, we are Greek and the Greek nation is a Christian nation. With respect to political choices and tolerance, I would like to point out that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and Islam strangely have something in common, the declaration of subjection, the government of the opposing lenders and loan sharks, and Islam in its Prophet. The government's ethnic corruption policy on the falsified refugee issue must not continue. Genuine war refugees are few. If they ask for asylum, they will be given. The contemptuous party of ANELs, however, is vain to keep the mantle of a patriotic party, with its guilty tolerance to the invasive invasion of Greece of hundreds of thousands of immigrants who are purely and indiscriminately baptized, almost indiscriminately, refugees, which poses a serious risk of isolating the country and Europe in general. The vocabulary used in the Honourable Prime Minister's Programmatic Declarations did not involve - and I think that is no accident at all - the words nation, country or country. It is, in fact, depressed, perhaps grief, but also astonishment. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence through the left memorial has transferred national sovereignty and has destroyed popular sovereignty, in one night the proud 'no' of the Greek people to a humiliating 'yes'. Greece is an independent state and is not a colony of international European capitalists and, in particular, Germany and the Germans who are attempting a new occupation. Greece should review its international relations with a geopolitical shift towards the Orthodox, homologue Russia, solely in the national interest. This shift towards Russia also concerns the Corfu Region, not only because of conventional and religious tourism, but also because neighbouring Albania, which is governed by intergovernmental philosophicalism - I want to believe in the Albanian people - tends to become a Turkish protectorate, because of already applied military armaments agreements with Turkey. It is noteworthy that the Minister for the Environment and Energy did not mention in his speech the word 'Russia', which manifestly and clearly constitutes a forbidden word for the SYRIZA and ANEL government. Therefore, instead of the substance, the honourable Minister, Mr. Environment and Energy, chose to consume himself in an innocuous attack on the Golden Dawn and 7% of the Greek people, who has genuinely nationalist ideological convictions, with inappropriate and fraudulent designations of neo-nazis, in a sad manner with recent statements by Turkish officials and Turkish press reports on the Golden Dawn. The tragic death of a new man, such as Paul Kryssa, should not be a field of political exploitation, when even with the mechanism of selective memory the assassination of Nikos Temponera in 1991 is avoided, but mainly the cold murder of the memorable national rivals Manolis Kapeloni and Giorgos Fodoulis in November 2013. Don't spill any more blood. We'll all be co-responsible. In conclusion, as a member of the Golden Dawn, a Greek nationalist, a Pontian and an Ioannina born in Ioannina, elected in the Region of Crystal Corfu, I will vote unreservedly and reluctantly against the Programmatic Declarations of the Government, that is to say, the continuing - even today -'strong honesty of SYRIZA and ANEL', to remind the House and the public declaration of the former Vice-President of Parliament, Alexis Mitropoulou in a crisis of political honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis Ioannis. Mr Apostle Evangelos, Minister for Rural Development, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, the people in their vote gave us the mandate to take the country on the difficult but hopeful path ahead of us. We know that we have many difficult battles to fight, and indeed within the country with greater production reconstruction, where the rural area has its capital. I will present you with key points of our interventions that serve our plan for radical reform of the agricultural sector, a plan aimed at ensuring food adequacy, the competitiveness of agricultural production through added value, the retention and renewal of the rural population and ensuring social cohesion in the countryside. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, voted for the agreement with the institutions, we did it - particularly for the rural area - because we believe that its sustainability under the present conditions is linked to its European path. I don't want to parade, but I can't help but mention what we found by receiving the Ministry. The final decision by our partners to return fines and charges of more than EUR 3 billion as a result of the poor management of Community funds since the 1990s. We are seeking and striving to significantly mitigate fines and charges and to pay off over time. But not those who are not responsible, not mostly for real farmers. And I'm making it clear. These cases won't stay that way. They will be investigated thoroughly. We hope it's just uncertainties. Ladies and gentlemen, we have specific priorities and measures in peak circles, both to address the economic and social consequences of the crisis in the rural population and to remedy the rural economy. This will only definitively address the effects of the agreement, but in fact we must serve our first cycle, which is the approach of the prerequisites of the agreement that aggravate the position of the rural world. We will insist, in the debate with the partners, on their impact and mitigation, with two tools as the top. Firstly, the actual definition of agricultural income through the keeping of accounts of revenues other than small ones - as we - producers and, secondly, the redefinition of the concept of a farmer's profession, aiming at differentiated tax treatment. It is clear from this procedure that there will be a substantial benefit to both the farmer by offsetting input-out VAT and to the State from increasing VAT collection. We will put forward a number of suggestive solutions, the main philosophy of which is that tax burdens should be distributed fairly to farmers according to their real fiscal capacity, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, for the calculation of net agricultural income, we seek to recognise as implied expenditure the remuneration of family labour as well as the depreciation of capital and fixed assets and other expenditure, such as the extended and actual use of the bachelor mainly to immigrants. Another example. In so far as the negotiations include aid, we are seeking a tax-free limit - as we have already implemented it - EUR 12 000, but transferring greater tax burdens to the highest amounts. We are waiting, ladies and gentlemen, for your own contribution, for your own proposals and especially for the most difficult issue in the rural area, which is the OGA. The OGA, as you well know, was created in 1961 to protect a vulnerable group, farmers. Since 1998 it has evolved into a main insurer. Today, OGA members are seven hundred thousand. It has become established in the consciousness of farmers and the whole of rural society. The specificities of the rural population are many, with employment beyond the husband and wife, and in many cases one, two or more children. Only for this reason must it continue to operate as an autonomous insurer for the main occupation of farmers, of course, with appropriate institutional interventions, such as, at least, five years in length - the gradual harmonisation of the OGA contributions with those of the IKA and the free choice of an insurance category in relation to income. And because there has been a reason for the OECD toolbox, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there will be no negative impact on the area, except in the case of raw milk, but which can be addressed if the domestic milk industries comply with a minimum protection for our farmers, which is clear labelling on the packaging of the country of production. Our second direct intervention cycle and it is designed to continue the production process in the difficult current circumstances. Measures and commitments in this direction are: First, the direct and timely payment, the repayment of all aid due to producers, even since 2012, and the 2014 ELGA compensation. Secondly, the distribution of eligible pasture, completed within the days under the responsibility of the Ministry and OPEKEPE, is just and with the exploitation of all available land without a problem for farmers. The management plans of grazing land are also drawn up at the same time. Thirdly, the rights of the new CAP will be activated without a problem, and our aim is to complete administrative checks for payment in November of up to 70% of an advance. In addition to the basic aid covering 55% of the national maximum amount, there is also an attempt to ensure that 30% of the national maximum amount is paid. Fourthly, the creation and operation of a farmer's card until the spring season, as a means to facilitate the liquidity of agricultural holdings, with a guarantee of aid and an economic backdrop based on the crop declarations of previous years. Fifthly, substantial market interventions to reduce production costs in input sectors and examine in depth the potential for rationalisation and reduction of energy costs. And sixthly, the simplification and reduction of the costs of all procedures for licensing of all kinds, drilling, stacking facilities, use of photo-protective products, etc. Thirdly, it is the streamlining of the market by taking immediate measures and actions against the illicit trafficking of agricultural products, illegal Greekisation and imports, harmonised practices in every sector and sector. We are systemifying and simplifying quality and quantitative controls on the market, in particular food and supplies, ensuring that there is no increase in the cost of production. With appropriate coordination of the co-responsible ministries and services, we are in every way ensuring public health. However, market rationalisation goes through and through the fight against the high level of tax evasion, by smuggling the circuits of the blockade and by establishing compulsory use in tariffs and sales. A coordinated intervention on the market will also be carried out in the form of payments of the space, which will be applied in a similar manner to those in force in the European Union. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that the country's agricultural production should be the most important tool for the liquidity of the stores. Circular four. Initiation of the majority of the development measures under the 2014-2020 rural development programme. We found a programme that was given to European services in December 2014 and was actually returned to us as unacceptable. It's not the time to value the choices made. Our intervention was essential, almost decisive in many respects, in order to be in its final whole. A few more meters we negotiate and it will take effective form. Our main objective is to work forward, with a focus on development measures that are ready to implement and which have been submitted and approved by their technical bulletins. In any case, our general direction is to support the new production potential of the primary sector, to ensure its multisectoral and multifunctional character and to focus on research and innovation. At the same time, we have fought hard at all levels since last March to minimize losses from the previous programme. Fifth cycle, the promotion of direct and mature institutional interventions. We fundamentally reconstruct the area of the professional organisation of farmers as a whole by resolving the important structural problems of the small lot and the competitiveness of the products. One of the first bills to be discussed with the start of the legislative work in this House is the one of grazing land, to create a database to address the biggest problem of livestock farming, that of grazing management. The draft law on the relocation of the cooperative idea is also submitted to the public debate on a new sound basis, cooperatives, producer groups, producer organisations, interbranch organisations. At the same time we emphasise new collective areas at work, production, processing and disposal of agricultural products and social solidarity structures. We are completing the registration of public agricultural land and property, most of which we intend to make available for productive purposes in forms collaboratively and collectively, with particular emphasis on their exploitation by young farmers. We want to create the conditions that will attract all the young people of the province to agriculture and not just those who are not good at the letters, as was the case until recently. We support and broaden the operation of the bank's multiplier material, in our efforts to reduce generalised dependence. We are promoting the generalised scale, in particular through collective schemes, a functioning integrated management system for all primary sectors. We start the process of establishing a special-purpose development bank, where the primary sector will meet its stable financial component. Outside the circle, the public sector. Based on the experience of the previous government service, we start reassessing all the structures of the Ministry and the supervised organisations. Based on and supported by all public officials, we are on a new basis organising the social recompense of the public sector, with the main concern of serving the farmer, preventing bureaucracy, monitoring the implementation of the strategy and policy, and some areas of public investment. We believe that in the first half of 2016, we will have completed the necessary legislative improvements and changes so that we now have a modern and productive organisational chart. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government is obliged to resolve the difficult budgetary and productive conditions of rapid economic, structural and social problems in dead time, under the pressure of an agreement which requires immediate budgetary measures with consequences. At the same time, however, with our perseverance and demand, a number of other things that should have been implemented at least twenty years ago will be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all see the future of the rural world, in response to the demands of our day, by looking at the younger generations of producers and scientists in the area. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll be done. We are taking this challenge. We are starting with vision and design a deep radical reform for the agricultural sector. We expect your own real contribution and trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u397	Thank you, Minister Evangelos. We move on to the MPs. Mr Georgios Georgios from New Democracy has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u398	Mr President, I think it's my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u399	After the Minister has the floor, he has a Member of the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u400	I am obliged, ladies and gentlemen, to change my position a little, because I was lucky to be in Step after Mr Apostle, the Minister for Rural Development. Mr. Apostle, you spoke of five developmental cycles before. I will tell you six points you mentioned in February 2015 from this Step and which are currently being searched and sought by farmers. Firstly, abolishing the ENPI in the fields, stables and warehouses. Secondly, abolishing the tax on agricultural income from the first euro with 13%. Thirdly, a tax-free 12 000 euros, except for compulsory bookkeeping. Fourth, lower electricity tariff. Fifthly, abolishing the oil tax so that we can reach the European Union's average and low-cost agricultural oil. Sixth, reintroduction of the thirteenth pension to pensioners. Six points from a total of thirty, Mr Apostolos, which you mentioned about farmers from this step on 10 February 2015. Why should farmers believe you today? Why would they believe in anything new you've said, whatever new you commit? Why would they believe you? You know, you haven't done anything so far. The time has come for implementation and implementation. Now it's time for you to be judged. And whoever goes up to this step now, because the people have no patience, to be careful about what he says. We've got a second left. The first one was January. What did we win and what did we lose eight months? We have to talk about them so that our fellow citizens can hear them and remember them. We've earned a lot of things. The first thing we have won is that others have found that the memorials are not abolished by a law. Memorandums are being implemented quickly, we take the opportunities we are given, we take care of the financing of the country and we take care of its development path. This must be done by someone who is obliged to go through with a memorandum and does not repeal it by a law. So they understood that after seven - eight months and some others. Secondly, some of our colleagues have understood in the seven months. They realised that unfortunately for the country the only alternative is Europe itself. There is no alternative, neither Russia nor China nor Venezuela. It was also a profit of these seven to eight months. And third profit is that some people understood what we already knew and told them, that Europe has specific political balances, has a specific position on the issues, and on these issues we must try to negotiate, so that we can achieve what is best for the country. It was understood by the Prime Minister after many months and after many hours of negotiation. But what he had to say at the end is that 'we did not properly calculate European data'. This was his answer and his explanation of the great turn he made, that 'we had not properly calculated European data'. However, this understanding of the country after seven months by the Prime Minister paid it and paid it. I am not going to say that the burden for the country is 86 billion dollars of the loan. There was a need and there would be a burden anyway for the Greek people. However, 60 billion of this loan is the result of this policy, which has been implemented in recent months. The most important of these is the need for the banks to be recapitalised. It is specific expenditure, specific costs which will be borne by all of us and which is due to the situation in which the Greek banks came after this unwise policy of recent months. In the Prime Minister's speech yesterday, there were two words that were missing, rather a word and a reference. The word 'Thessaloniki' was completely missing. SYRIZA's MP, Mr Triantafylides, was quoted earlier and complained that Thessaloniki eventually did not refer to the plans within the Programmatic Declarations of the new government, that while the previous government had committed itself to making a Ministerial Council in Thessaloniki, it never did. Do you know why the Prime Minister does not mention the word 'Thessaloniki'? I think it's understood by everyone. He needs to scratch wounds. Reporting the word "Thessaloniki", all the mind goes to the program of Thessaloniki, which has of course been forgotten in very few months. That is why it has not been mentioned in the word 'Thessaloniki'. But the Prime Minister didn't make another report yesterday. It has not been mentioned at all in national matters. I rarely see a Prime Minister in Programic Declarations to make no reference to national issues. I want to believe that this omission was random. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, in whatever position the people are calling for, in a responsible and serious manner, is doing their duty as it feels. He did so as an opposition in the previous years of the government of Giorgos Papandreou, voting for what legislation he believed was in the right direction and had a reformist time, will now do so in what comes and which is really useful for the country, is truly reformist and is not materialistic. One of the great battles of the Prime Minister, as he says, is the one for'red' loans. Reading his speech, I see three goals in this great battle. One is the law of Katseli, which says that it needs to be improved. The law of Katseli, in 2010 the New Democracy Party as opposition voted for him, even though there was a government at the time. SYRIZA, the Katseli law on overdue households did not vote for him in 2010. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The second pillar is the code of conduct of banks, which is also the legislation of the New Democracy. The third pillar is the law on highly indebted small and medium-sized enterprises. With these three weapons, as the Prime Minister says in his speech, he will face, fight the "red" loans. With our own weapons, like our weapon is that since November 2012 there has been a commitment to debt write-down. We'll be here and we'll all be judged, because the second time is the last. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The speaker of SYRIZA, Christos Beyalas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u402	Thank you very much, Mr President. My warmest congratulations on the election of the whole Bureau, as well as my warmest congratulations to all my fellow Members and colleagues, who at this new period, the difficult period of the next four years of Parliament, are all called upon to fight together, fight, to end this crisis. I say 'Everyone', because no one forgets that the night of the negotiation, almost all of the opposition cried, "close the negotiation, close the negotiation" and vote the next day. And the Aftermath of the vote, and today we hear it, in these days of the Programming Declarations, you begin to say 'Look, now proceed on your own'. I'm starting to be a new congressman. I am listening to colleagues from Officerial Representation and other opposition parties and they are confusing me. What kind of logic and practice of counterpopulation is that? "Did you vote on them, but the next day you go on your own"? And on the other hand, to know that all the previous years, were you those powers that you said were a blessing to the memorials, if we didn't have the memorials, should we invent them? I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but you're really confusing us. Clear your opinion. You are also very confusing to us on other issues, with regard to investment and development. Because in the end growth has many expressions. The development for you, what is it? Is the turn of the economy in oligopoly and monopolies, or is it a development that is directed at small and poor people? Because growth is from whom and for whom. You're talking about investments. But you've been talking all these years about investments. In recent years, however, apart from 'COSCO', we have seen no other investment. Do you consider investing only to drive the country's economy into oligopolistic and monopolistic situations? I guess that's what you mean. But where is it that today, while you were claiming the good news of the memorandum, you do not want to vote for anything? Are you afraid that this SYRIZA government and Alexis Tsipras, who have no commitment and are not afraid to hit tax evasion, corruption and strife, may also find you confronted, why can your heterogeneous, your people be hit? Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government, having received this great mandate, has assumed a great and historic responsibility. The great responsibility is to get the country out of this deadlock, to get the country out of the size of the memorials, with the main aim of restoring the sense of law, with the main aim of redistributing wealth and fair burden sharing. But how can this be done? The first element is with the fight against corruption, with the cease-fire and - the best - with the fight against tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, tax evasion should be lifted by making large areas, but demolishing the tax maze created by the parties that were in power in recent years. A labyrinth that they did just to serve the heirs. We need to make a reform of the tax system. To create a new, truly, tax system, which is modern, flexible, stable and effective. This means that in order to do so, it needs to be based on two basic principles. Income - and is a basic economic principle - is equal to consumption plus savings. At the same time, it should also be based on a second principle, where there should be conflicting interests among people who sell and buy. In other words, consumption is, anyway, taxed either by indirect or by direct taxes. What we need to tax is the income saved. So we should create a tax system based on the participation of all citizens, who will require proof. In order to demand proof, however, they should also have a direct interest. So we should build each citizen's tax free on the basis of their expenses. That is to say, to cover the case of consumption and tax with rates of income saved. Thus, we will have recorded the Gross Domestic Product on a high basis. Because by hitting tax evasion only with tax mechanisms, only by punishing and substantiating, we do not increase GDP. We all know that tax evasion today exceeds 50% and 60% of gross domestic product. Imagine that her arrest will increase the Gross Domestic Product and thus also the relationship between our credit obligations, which from 190% of GDP that is, will fall only by increasing the Gross Domestic Product, which will be registered. Because all companies will be required to issue the evidence. This is where we make a significant contribution to the creation of plastic money. Why are we afraid? We can do this and it is imperative. I also address the Ministers. We will be here to support it. From the first day of the new year to put plastic money in order not to tell us that there is a particular problem with capital controls. All money can be handled with plastic money. Subscribed VAT directly, interconnected with the banks with the RTGS, so that there is no question of collection. We must dare. Ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative that we move forward in order to resolve this great challenge. Let us not vote for these measures, which take us many years ahead. Thank you. Good power to all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr. Christos Beyala. Mr. Syriza has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a few small rams, some cracks have opened up in the large landscape of the European Union and even send hopes for another Europe. The action and struggle of SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras in Europe with a peak of the country's debt have helped to open up these rams so that the severe immobilisation of the neoliberal policies that dominate the European political landscape can be directly challenged. Another Europe of this kind, and within another Greece, is also visible in the territory of the arts, letters and culture. The civilization that has been in a bad position over the last five catastrophic years. It is now our duty to raise the rams and contribute to the total reintroduction and re-establishment of the social state and along with this, a new landscape for all citizens without exception. Our declared truth, after all, is that culture is a public good. Part of culture and public good is also the area of audiovisual media, electronic territory, information and entertainment. The previous government of SYRIZA and ANEL, has prepared and submitted to public consultation two very important bills. The draft law on the licensing of satellite terrestrial television broadcasters - the channel bill, to consult - which also regulates the issues of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee and the bill on the establishment of a national audiovisual media centre which regulates issues of communication diplomacy and national communication policy. With the first bill, at last, the providers of terrestrial digital broadcasting content will have their brave rights and obligations. This is where the obligations and rights of private television stations are described and a class enters the landscape. Legality, transparency, political and cultural diversity and pluralism are guaranteed. Even workers' rights with strict rules are guaranteed. Frequency maps shall determine the frequency and technical specifications to be respected by national or regional broadcasters. However, it is also important to establish a network of terrestrial digital broadcasting. In other words, ERT will provide a digital signal to pan-Hellenic or regional television stations with cheap tariffs. The second bill creates a database, a directory where one can find whatever has been recorded visually or acousticly in Greece or for Greece since the invention of how to record sound and image until today. The landscape of electronic media enterprises is also being arranged. These two bills do not just cover gaps, do not correct distortions and injustices of years alone. They are state-of-the-art interventions that use tools and methods of high adequacy in communication and for what is well derived from it. It's not just two technocratic bills. They are proposals with substance, legal social sensitivity and care for many, taking into account the weakest in this society, where too much has been degraded and dissolved. A government like the one that has brought me back to the country's rule, the people in the September elections, has no reason to manage the legacy of the media system, the ombudsmen, the unworthy tonights who cling to every power and all those who work in the public space only for their personal benefit. So we will work so that culture can change its face, be a public asset offered richly to the citizen of that country, without distinctions of social status, education and economic surface. Ladies and gentlemen, care for state tents, for orchestras, museums and arts will be far from our convenient "our heavy articulate is culture" that we are fed up with hearing about forty years now. The letters, the arts, the cultural asset in the digital age, are our particular concern. The accession of Greece to the European and the global digital market will bring the works of Greek creators into contact with the world, so that what the Prime Minister declared yesterday in the speech of the New Government's Programmatic Declarations, too, can be brought back to all to whom he belongs, to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Mr. Michael Jéflés has the floor from the Democratic Compact for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u406	Ladies and gentlemen, following the Programmatic Declarations we heard yesterday, the cycle of anti-immunications has been closed, although your old habits, gentlemen, are not easily forgotten by you. We have heard and heard again about a second programme vaguely, which reminds me of the "double" programme of Thessaloniki. On the other hand, we hear from this Step Ministers, as if they were the first to take over the Ministry, as if they had not been responsible for carrying out government work in the Ministries today. Just now, listening to the Minister for Agriculture, I was really felt - and so it is - that he does not have a sense of the reality that the Greek region is going to explode, that the Greek farmer today is uncompetitive, that with his production he does not cover production costs, that he does not know when aid will be paid, compensation, everything. Ladies and gentlemen, the landing in reality has unfortunately also brought the account, which is heavy, to the backs of the Greek people, because of the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence that today calls for our confidence and, indeed, for measures already in place. In order to be understandable, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to mention that farmers have been receiving 15 days, that is, immediately after the elections, tax papers with an extra income tax for 2014, since the tax advance has increased from 27.5% to 55%. Why didn't you send them forward? The pensioners also - and especially the OGA pensioners - saw their pensions fall. And there will be further cuts. In fact, for the first time since the "first time on the left" pensions of 330 euros took place. The inhabitants of the islands saw VAT growing. The raw materials for the new growing season cannot be imported due to capital controls but have also been escalated at the same time as the increase in VAT to 23%. The attitude of payments and financing continues and is particularly hard in the agricultural sector. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I heard the Prime Minister from the Step of the House talking about the development of the primary sector. That's right. But really, Prime Minister, what development are you talking about? For a general and vague, without any self-critic or provision to resolve the issue of production finance? And I am talking about farmers' aid, farmers' compensation and bank financing. It is well known that you have transferred the reserves of OPECPE and ELGA - more than 500 million - to the Bank of Greece and farmers are still unpaid even for the losses of 2013 and 2014. On a number of occasions, you have announced - and in fact, by election, - that organic farming and livestock payments are still being paid and that farmers are still waiting for them. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to produce agricultural products for 2016, the question of funding must be resolved immediately. Farmers, at this time, must sow their fields for the year we come, for 2016. They can no longer wait when you'll be organized as a government. You are significantly delaying the implementation of the new common agricultural policy, gentlemen. It has practically stopped and farmers will remain without the advance, which is given in October, a date set by the European Union. This money is necessary for the new growing season. In fact, the European Union has also given us the oath to be at 75% this year, that is, to 1.5 billion instead of 1.1 billion. This year, and farmers have this money more than anything else they need, because there are capital controls too. What did we hear from the Minister? That they'll take it. When will they be taken, Minister? If they take it in December, it's too late for the farmer. He won't be able to come in to produce. Now he needs that money. The implementation of the rural development programme 2015-2020 has not even begun, and the country and farmers lack Community funding for the investments they need. With regard to the improvement plans for the period 2007-2014, half of them have not been implemented on your own responsibility, gentlemen of the cohabitation, and the country will be called upon to repay significant amounts. I would like to remind you that what was mentioned about the new CAP and the 20 billion for the agricultural sector was a success of the previous government's negotiation with a PASOK Minister and was signed in 2013. Your contribution to the new CAP, unfortunately, is the overtaxation of aid with 20% in 2015 and 26% in 2016. The cost to farmers annually amounts to 520 million of their aid. You can no longer hide. Ladies and gentlemen, we also heard yesterday in the Programmatic Declarations on the tax reforms of farmers. More specifically, there was reference to keeping books and data. And today we heard that. There is probably no proper information that this measure has already been enacted by the previous government. After an intervention from the PASOK, and the tax rate was 13%, which you now intend to take to 20% and 26%. It has been heard - but we expect it to be implemented - that production costs will not include the personal work of the farmer, as depreciation and interest payments should have been included. You'll find us sick people in this effort. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard about the different VAT return to the main occupation farmers. We all know that this is misleading, because those who keep books and data, which are compulsory for everyone, are offset by VAT that is not returned to them. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to ask you about your Programming Declarations. Really, what about the Russian embargo, and what exactly have you done with the exports of agricultural products, the improvement plans, the 'Leader' of the AAA, the irrigation projects, with the excise duty on oil, which abolishes 180 million, with the insurance contributions to the OGA? And we didn't hear, would they triple? From 1,500 euros to the first category, it goes to 4,500 euros a year. Who's gonna pay for this? What farmer? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. In conclusion, I would like to say that we, as a Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR, having close and deep relations with the rural world and with the world of the countryside, will make every effort to prevent the productive primary sector from being affected and to escape the tax collecting and collecting memorandum bearing the signatures of the Tsipras, Kammenos. For everything that I said before, I am giving a negative vote on the coup d'état. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr. Jeleigh Michael. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs now has the floor. Minister, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all, with children or without children, we agree that education is one of the largest patients in this country. We may disagree with the causes, but we all agree with the results. One of the three students firmly turns the back to school, giving white glue to the test, often regardless of its convenience or difficulty. Why? What makes a child, by definition, capable of conquering the entire universe, rejecting knowledge? There is also the other category of children, those who resist resignation and give the fine and laborious struggle for learning in the stubbornness. However, these children do not feel content with school either. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, we are responsible for recording all these 'why' things which we all meet in our daily journeys and for opening up a coordinated dialogue on the formation of a reformist vision for all levels of education, without flying away the good things that have been done. I know that such processes, such as the national social dialogue on education, have lost credibility. However, our aim is to bring back to the forefront institutions and procedures, which the establishment has condemned to inertia or imperialism. For our Left and Government, the great challenge is to find ways to discuss with society the new realities that impose great reforms on education, without a feeling of vanity that nothing can change, nor with the logic of emphasizing the evolving international reality, which of course requires critical appreciation. The national dialogue on education will have a specific timetable, so that from the new year on the implementation of the radical reforms that will emerge through - I hope - fruitful controversy, without blocs, and ultimately through wide convergence. Ladies and gentlemen, education is a maximum national and social priority and we do not have time to waste. Does that mean education has ceased to have class reunions? Not at all. If we are concerned with public school, it is precisely because we want a school for all children, a school that will blunt and not exacerbate social inequalities, as the neoliberal inspiration'reforms' have been doing over recent years. For us, there are no nullo labores in the education that we must prosecute them by means of examination - looting, because strict budgetary policies cannot afford to support the democratic school. For us, all the children have their own triumph at school. And in this throne we want their name to be written, whether it is Greek or foreign. Next to all the Greek birds with all the immigrant. We need a good school for everyone. Is this possible in the circumstances of particular and protracted crisis? We answer unreservedly how so! It can be proved possible because it is necessary. At this point I would like to point out a self-evident truth, but it has been challenged in many respects. The heart of school is the teacher. Its good working conditions are translated into good conditions for children's education. We know the problems faced by the educational world, problems depending on what the economic crisis and its neoliberal management have created at the expense of the vast majority of the Greek people. The upgrading of education is about the state but also about the society that needs to recognize the social role of the teacher. And in other leap seasons in our homeland, teachers and teachers, all teachers, found inspiration in order, by the nature of their function, daily with the children. And today they are invited to mobilize their interest, to awaken children’s curiosity, to develop their imagination and talents, to cultivate the synthetic thought and critical capacity of children. They are invited next to the Blackboard to make new technologies something attractive for the generations of our "digital indigenous" children and adolescents, to break the routine of the school and to develop a knowledge approach energetically for students and students. They are also invited to make school as a transmission station, which presupposes the presence in the school hall of a teacher who believes deeply in their educational value and will be constantly trained. In this context, our immediate priorities are not only the development of a valuation system but also the promotion of the work of schools and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections of 20 September disproved the plans for the restoration and hope of the domestic and international situation, that the SYRIZA Government would prove a 'left parenthesis'. We're a four-year government, and we're planning a four-year horizon. In the previous period of our governance, despite the suffocating context and extortion, we have achieved a number of interventions at all levels of education that were faced with malfunctions and were paving the way to the major areas that our educational system needs. The ripples of the preservative bloc, formed in education with the so-called European mantle - in order to block the initiatives of the former leadership of the Ministry of Education - have found little sound ears. In the face of these manipulations, the work in the first seven months has been important. We continue the work of the Government of Social Rescue, without taking a step behind the areas that education needs at all levels. The publicised bill will form part of the social dialogue on education. Our interventions will be immediate but also long-term. Our first concern is for all schools to work quickly. We have already taken all possible measures, and we will succeed, overcoming obstacles and difficulties that the critics themselves have created with the policies of recent years. Really, why don't they tell us how many recruits the budget that they voted on last year was foreseeable? Not one. Why don't they tell us how many of the thousands of teachers retired have been assigned in recent years? Not one. The gaps in previous governments are struggling this year to cover, by the middle of the month, the reintroduction of the educational process in all schools with emphasis on special education schools. At the same time, we will explore the possibility of a number of permanent appointments in 2016. Despite the budgetary difficulties, the government for the training year 2015-2016, is recruiting eighteen thousand nine hundred seventy-seven substitutes for seventeen thousand sixty-sixty-nine last year, that is by 10% more recruitment. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to refer to certain pathogens of the educational system that must be stopped. The first relates to the extensive secondments of teachers outside the House, despite the large gaps. In consultation with the relevant institutions, we will proceed to a drastic reduction in the number of secondments of teachers, starting from the parties, the Government, the church administration, and other government agencies. This measure will be implemented from the school year 2016-2017, so that no disruption is created this year in the already heavy educational reality. Every year until June, starting from June 2016, the transfer, secondments and recruitment tables will have been finalised, so that the schools operate from the first day, without the gaps in recent years. The second pathogen, combined with the lack of permanent recruitment of teachers. It is not possible for schools to operate by recruiting substitutes and wages from money coming from the ESRB and the Public Investment Programme, i.e. from resources intended for development. The problem has a pedagogical dimension. It is not permissible for hundreds of thousands of pupils to change each year, when the relationship of trust between the teacher and the student presupposes some duration. This is much more true of special education schools, which the state has placed their function in the heroism of little staff and the struggle for parents. Of the many and great problems of education, I would like to propose those of special education. They are at least one hundred and fifty thousand children, who, as with the weakest, pay painfully the consequences of the social crisis. We will pay particular attention and care for the establishment of a modern system of special education and training support for all children with disabilities, because that means promoting equal opportunities for all and all in practice. Incidentally proof of our interest in special education is the government's decision to recruit additional staff - about a thousand people - for special education this year. Ladies and gentlemen, in primary and secondary education the future of education, of the new generation and of the country will be judged in the medium term. It is necessary to revise the institutional framework of pre-school education. In primary, high school and high school, it is necessary to restructure the school program and books in order for the child to enjoy learning. It is time to speak openly about the huge volume of curriculum that teachers and teachers are unable to teach, and the children are unable to assimilate. It is time to talk about the difficulties of matter, about all the inconveniences, leaps, about all the absurdities that children and parents face every day when they sit on their side to read them. Our aim is to upgrade high school as an autonomous educational grade. Within this framework we will consider the introduction of new ways of valuing knowledge by reducing the time of examinations in high schools for the benefit of teaching time. We're going to introduce the public degree in language. The responsibility for private teachers goes from the Ministry of Labour to the Ministry of Education. Immediately we promote a new multi-dimensional institutional framework for compensatory education, aimed at alleviating educational and social inequalities. This means that we are moving towards the reintroduction of, and indeed qualitatively upgraded, the reinforcement of teaching and additional teaching support which have been effectively abolished, as well as the implementation of parallel support programmes for children with learning and other difficulties. We will take educational actions as we need to tackle both the phenomenon of school bullying and violence, as well as the phenomenon of discrimination, prejudice, xenophobia and racism in the yard and the hall. As far as technical and vocational education has been concerned for decades now, we are committed that we will immediately put a new strategic policy framework into social consultation, amending wherever necessary. Date of birth: 4186/2013. We will establish a fourth school year in the PSAs optional and subsidized for as many graduates as they wish to gain work experience. In cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the OAED, in the next few years we have established a national strategic framework for forms of work-based learning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few points about higher education. Our universities for a long time have been at the forefront of an unjust attack that had clear but undeclared objectives. These were the objectives. The complete depreciation of their public and academic character, the undermining of a process that was shaping critically thinking citizens and the introduction of a working and utilizing conception for new knowledge. Our goals are completely different and will move on two axes: The first is the restoration of the injured authority of universities and of the TEI with specific initiatives and actions. The second axis is the academic and democratic relaunch of institutions. The regulations, including the more immediate ones, will prejudge future major changes and sectors. The current legislation on universities has caused serious operating problems, which must be resolved immediately. The Council of State has cancelled three elections and new elections are on the table. The institutions' councils have been annulled, removed from the university community and the only competence they exercise is that of choice, that is to say the exclusion of candidates from the school. By means of legislation, we abolish this competence which runs counter to the fundamental democratic rights of members of the university community. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis accumulates daily problems and even humanitarian survival at the expense of many children. In cooperation with the municipalities, the church and solidarity groups, we will set up an observatory against child poverty to take direct initiatives, such as school pools, and not to relive student phenomena in the classroom. Universities will be given the amount available for student care, and we will call for solidarity structures to be established for the development of self-managed activities by the institutions, so as to ensure food and housing for all economically weak students. I left last - it's not the last thing - the problem of bleeding with the migration of young scientists. We are committed that from our first priorities, not just of the Ministry of Education but of the government as a whole, it will be the launching of solutions to the problems of young scientists. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote of confidence in the government is a vote of confidence in a programme of democratic and productive regeneration of the country, focusing on radical educational reform, free, public, quality and open to society in a school of democratic values, mutual understanding and solidarity, and embracing the dangerous figures and fascist, nazi demagogy. The vote of confidence is about the government's oath against our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u409	Thank you Mr Nikolaos Friend, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs. Mr. Ioannis Giokas has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u410	Mr. Philly, in the description of the problems you get excellent. For this reason it is the problem, and for this reason it says that there are twenty thousand more loopholes in schools. Recruitment of staff members and alternates reach half of them and on the question of the appointment of permanent training staff what was the answer? "We will explore the time of year to make some such recruitments." This is also the way in which education is based on government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's speech of the Prime Minister and of the Ministers who spoke today was a clear message to the people to accept all measures that are undoubtedly coming with the known misguided promise that at some point in the future, when the recovery comes back, when the investments are made, when we get out of the memorials, when, when, when, the people may even get something. And not, of course, get back everything that's lost these years and everything he's still losing, not even a small part of all that. All you promise is an outburst in the most extreme poverty groups, to those who cut them off from 1-1-2016 that the rest of the workers will pay for, based on the reactionary logic "the poor will pay for the poorest." Today's pensioner will pay for tomorrow's pension, and she's hunger. The only one who won't pay will be big money. On the contrary, it will be based on new privileges, new motives, new cheap labour force, all that you have promised to implement and that will arise from the cracking of the people. We ask this question and we address the people. Did you hear yesterday at some point in the Prime Minister's speech reference to the words 'right, conquest, modern needs', even if it is a verbal reference? Nothing. Why is that? Because all of this, even as concepts, must be permanently and irrevocably removed from collective memory and above all must be removed from collective claim. Instead, what did we hear? Poverty observation, repeated by Mr. Philis, targeted actions, exaggerated recipes, such as the social economy, i.e. where the state is cutting off social policy services, some unemployed teachers, kindergartens, nursery nurses, some such supposed businesses to share their poverty and unemployment and to fill the gap left by the state. What else did we hear from the Prime Minister's speech? Social entrepreneurship, food that the food chains will give the poor. Mercy. We have heard the epitome of Euro-Union poverty management policies, the government's most official admission that poverty will not only remain but will increase in the next period. Even the notion of solidarity is abused, because it is another thing that solidarity based on the struggle, the movement to eliminate poverty, unemployment, impoverishment, and solidarity as an excuse for a policy that exacerbates poverty and impoverishment is another thing. So the following question arises after all this. What is the main difference of the current SYRIZA government - ANEL from the former governments of New Democracy and PASOK? Essentially nothing. One is the main difference, and that is what we have to admit, that, unlike the previous ones, you, the current government, the barbaric measures in the memorandum, which have been the requirements of the European Union's capital and directions, can at this stage be implemented with the least possible popular reactions. Because with the young man's cloak, you have temporarily led - we say - a large part of the people who have believed in previous years that the memorials can be abolished without breaks, through a more intelligent and dynamic supposed negotiation, you have led this world to say: 'As soon as they have not succeeded and those who have tried, then this policy is a one-way road, and all that remains is to choose who will implement it in the least painful way'. You have actually done this for the time being. Don't think it'll last long. The people, the workers won't do a rag. But we recognize this and above all recognize the system that supports you. Leave the candy now for the oligarchy, for the establishment that's chasing you, that's fighting you. Even the criticism made by the media - some of them - convenient criticism is to move the measures forward faster to implement the policy you have committed yourself to. After all, in your terminology and perception the concept of 'logarchy', which you reproduce - and yesterday the Prime Minister, and today the Ministers and Members of Parliament - has nothing to do with capital, the bourgeoisie, which has the economy and power in his hands. What you mean are some corrupt businessmen, as you say, who in fact want to replace them with new fireplaces, redistribute the pie, as the crisis, as if the memorials were a matter of corruption and interdependent and not a result of the capitalist development path itself, as well as your own investors, the inmates of the Clinton Institute, the 'brokes' of America or wherever they come from, they will be honest and moral and will not chase the profit by all means and in all ways, and lawfully by workers and the illegal ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We are therefore addressing the people. We call on him, regardless of what he voted for, regardless of whether he chose to abstain from the elections, not to accept what you say to him, that with his vote he gave his consent and command to his slaughter, to organise his struggle for modern needs and above all to support this struggle on solid foundations, because there is a solution. There is another way to the opposite bank of today's capitalist development path, on which you are all committed and which is the path of the working people's power, the socialisation of the means of production, the central planning, the economy for the benefit of the people. Under these conditions, the people can also be relieved of the European Union's international alliances and of an unbearable debt you are charging them. The sooner our people make this choice, the more obstacles they can put, the sooner we will open the only hopeful path of radical overthrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. I would like to inform the House that we have two other Members, Mrs Arabatzis and Mr Muscardini for today. Please Mrs. Arabatzi Fotini from New Democracy to come to Step for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last night we followed an unprecedented political transformation. Alexis Tsipras from every word of this country's constitution, as he said he was from this step on February 8th, there was suddenly every word of the third memorial last night. From February, when he promised, of course, applause for the re-evaluation of the 15th pension by the end of 2015 and, of course, the abolition of HNVIA, last night in his frozen parliamentary group, he asked for the first evaluation of the programme to be carried out without delay, namely in the resolution of the prerequisites and difficult measures. Evidently Alexis Tsipras of February 8 with Alexis Tsipras of yesterday's day are two completely different people. He changed. The question is whether SYRIZA has changed as well, whether the SYRIZA MPs have changed, or if what we have lived in the previous seven months, we will relive them for the second time as a nightmare, and whether in a few weeks or a few months' time SYRIZA will again ask for the help of the New Democracy and the rest of the European Anti-Population Forces, so that the country does not have a chance again with Grexit. Of course, Alexis Tsipras also changed from an antimonetary to a memorial, but his tactics did not change to lie, appearing white and baptizing fish. Last night from this step the Step said that the first half of next year will be six months of the return of the economy to positive growth. A few hours earlier, of course, in the draft budget that his government submitted, it included measures totalling 4 billion euros for 2016 and 1.3% of GDP recession. He spoke of employment aid, the fight against unemployment and so on, when his budget predicts an increase in unemployment to 25.8% of GDP, while the pension expenditure will be reduced to EUR 281 million, these pensions that Alexis Tsipras declared during the election period will not be reduced. Eventually who should we believe? Alexis Tsipras or the budget he deposited? He has announced a global poverty map, while his budget provides for a reduction in the heating allowance of 105 million euros, which we have spent - and a few more - on the useless elections in September. However, the time has come for the heavy bill, Prime Minister, which is not paid either in equivalent non-existent negotiations or in como-magnetic antidotes, such as the ones you smiled yesterday for the tax-paid and tax-paying package that you finally bring to farmers. You remember this burdensome package of measures from this Step on 22 July, it was denied that Mr Tsakalotos even exists on the map. This burdensome package of measures, which, thanks to the resistance of the New Democracy, you were caring for the vote on the agreement and the country's stay in the euro, did not bring it into the euro, but you pushed it in the prerequisites of October with the triple to bring equivalents. And instead of equivalents, we heard the Prime Minister yesterday in the one paragraph that he agreed to devote to rural development, to develop theories about the definition of a principal farmer's profession and his so-called different tax treatment. We have already heard Mr Apostle. Of course, we have not heard what incomes, with what rates and what is expected in the end. We have heard a Prime Minister colluding and formulating - as an antidote and this - the EUR 20 billion of the new CFP for the period '14-20 what was negotiated and agreed by the previous government sixteen months. Of course, the Prime Minister did not say, referring to these EUR 20 billion that the previous government gave you intact for the agricultural world, how much money will ultimately be left in the farmer's pocket after the tax on subsidies you have already voted on in May with the Balabani amendment. He said nothing about overtaxing agricultural income, which comes from 13% to 26%, and could also be made to 29% or advance the tax from 55% - it was 27.5% - at 100% now, nor about the tripling of the OGA's insurance contributions, which will mean the end of agricultural production. I liked it, of course, for Mr Apostolos, in his speech, to request proposals from the opposition, referring to the question of insurance contributions, and immediately after his speech, he left. Obviously, this invitation to the Opposition was a pretext. By the way, I wanted to ask Mr Apostle - if he were present - if he had told the Prime Minister that for the first time since our accession to the European Union, the Community grants of EUR 2 billion will not be paid in time, necessary for the survival of both families and farmers' farms. And you know why? For seven months now you have never ruled in the elementary, unequivocally, the basic ones, such as making a fundamental decision on the country's grazing plans, which is essential for the payment of subsidies. Let me just remind you - and there is in the Minutes - that the same Minister, Mr Apostolos, pledged that the final grazing plans - and therefore the payment of subsidies - would be ready by 15 August. [[At this point the doorbell is ringing at the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I will need your tolerance, as will previous interlocutors. I wonder if the Prime Minister is also aware that only from the 2007-2013 rural development programme, our country loses on December 31, 700 million euros, because they have simply remained unreported, such as the new rural development programme 2014-2020, what the previous government of course achieved, amounting to 4.22 billion - I just remind you - and it was submitted in June 2014, is the only one of the Member States - which has not been approved on your day when it was adopted even that of Bulgaria and Romania. So leave the great, gentlemen of the government, for flagship purposes and other such impressive objectives and take the basics and the safeguards, because they are at risk too. You are talking about growth when you exaggerate with the new unfavourable advances of taxation for the small and medium-sized enterprises, when in seven months' time the Minister of Development did not issue a ministerial decision, the famous Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to start running the programmes and the money of the new NSRF, and further condemning the market and business. You are talking about combating tax evasion and combating smuggling, when until yesterday the relevant Minister, Mr Mardas, said by the Serres that the entrance gate of Promahona, which is bleeding through undeclared and undeclared cargo, will use the Bulgarian side scanners. Shame on you! At the same time that these machinery needed to deal with 8 billion avoidance is registered in two previous budgets. Where are these funds, then, and where are you going to be? Ladies and gentlemen, my speech will not have an outline, as I hope the enormous archaeological excavation in Amphipolis will not have. I am sorry that the new Minister for Culture, who spoke just now, did not say anything about the future of this radiant monument of global cultural and historical heritage threatened even by landslides, with retreat. I hope that Mr Baltas does not follow Mr Xydakis' policy, who has driven out with unprecedented political empathy and has condemned the abandonment of a golden vein for the wider region and for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. The last speaker is Mr George Amyras from the river. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a start, I, of course, wish a good parliamentary term for the benefit of the many, particularly the poorest people and young people. I will certainly wish the government success too, despite the fact that I have a very small basket. Why? Because we've lived through this government for the past eight months. The retired person was waiting for the thirteenth pension. The unemployed waited 3,000 new jobs that never came. The employee expected a minimum wage of EUR 751. The businessman expected a lower tax rate. Each one of them and all took the third memorial, which is the worst, the Tsipra - Kammenos Memorial. So when I say that I have a small basket, I think no one can blame me. We on the river are practical people. We have a look in the future, we are interested in solutions. That is why I want to deal with three individual issues of government policy, which have not been discussed or which have become miserable. First of all, bureaucracy. At the same time as the Prime Minister was completely out of the question of the war that this government was supposed to do against bureaucracy yesterday, we learned how much it costs Greek taxpayers a seal of the wider public sector. So it costs 13,000,300 euros. I am referring to the ERGOSE, its subsidiary. A seal! And I'm explaining, Minister. So ERGOSE builds a railway line that connects the Psathon with the Rio of Achaia Prefecture. Seaside nice route, eight and a half kilometers the railway line. Two were the companies that reached the final stage of the competition, one Greek and one Italian. The Greek company offered an offer for 100,000,000 euros. The competition was tendering. So he asked for 100,000,000 euros. The foreign company, Italian, offered an offer for 86,700,000 euros. However, the Greek company was finally preferred, despite the fact that its offer was more expensive by 13.3 million euros. Why? The foreign company was rejected, because the insurance policy it produced had no seal. But come on, they don't have seals in Italy. The Italian state lives in the 21st century, not in the 19th as here. So he was rejected. Of course they will go to the European courts and will probably be justified. But ERGOSE, the shareholders of which we are all taxpayers by 100%, refuses to accept that in Europe there is a state which is not caught in seals. Our neighbour Albania has also abolished the stamps in much of its trade. So the big words about the bureaucracy and its slashing, "trained" in this case. Secondly, I want to make a reference to the environment. It seems to me that we have heard almost nothing about the environment. The greatness of this part of the earth is the natural wealth, the environment and cultural, of course, which comes and locks itself in the geophysical and of course in the wealth of people. What do we got here? First of all, we have the political disappearance of the Ministry of the Environment. Mr. Chironis was here. He's gone. What is your vision of renewable energy sources? You haven't told us anything. Seven months, and in the previous parliamentary procedure and period, I am constantly asking to know how this conflict now sees and sees the issue of air, sea, geothermality, sun and I have not received any response or at least any serious response. There are many issues. You should also tell us what you are finally going to do with the new lignite plant, 'Ptolemais 5', which is of course complex. Yes, but there is our fossil fuel, which is lignite - poor quality and with a short year, because under European legislation we will not be able to use it because it is of low quality - and the WWF study is coming, which tells us that at 40% less cost than what is required to build 'Ptolemais 5', we can have the same energy generation from the RES, renewable energy sources. We have heard nothing about it, too. Nor did we hear, as far as the environment is concerned, any position of the Greek Government on the global conference to be held in Paris in December. Shouldn't we have positions? Seven months - in introductory words - the Ministry of the Environment and Co-ordinating Bodies, to find out what positions we are going to take at this global conference. No one tells me anything. At the end of the year, in two and a half months from now, the extension of the life of the management bodies of the protected areas of the country, which are the biodiversity nuclei, expires. And there's absolute silence. What about the forest maps? What about the Arta's hawk, the Land register? What about the arbitrary construction at last? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Besides, it's past 12 and we're done. All this is inextricably linked to the economy, to the development of this country. We must look at them in the long term and not in the long term. Nothing has been learned from the government's planning proclamations. The third area in which I wanted to make a little mention is individual and social rights. What about the cohabitation pact of homosexual couples? The Minister for Justice said something earlier but we had heard this before in the previous parliamentary term and mandate of this government and nothing happened. In order not to take it any further, what about the marriage of the couples of the same family, the political union? Of course, with the co-pilots of ANELs and the pressure of the Church, and that's what I see going to the bells. Even Conservative America has recognized, of course, through its supreme court - the possibility and the right of two people, regardless of sex, to be married. How far back are we going to stay? Are you a progressive government or aren't you? What are you waiting for? That's not what they're costing, but it's worth it. They liberate social forces. They're liberating energy into the world to get ahead of this country. Finally, we must say that there are no equivalent but equals, because, on the basis of the economic theory, every economic measure has its own potential and cannot be compared or identified with the power of other economic measures. We're talking about equals. We are looking for 168m euros to save parents, people's families, poor families, costs increased by 23% for schools, foreign languages centres, dance schools and music schools. These 168 million, if you want, I can tell you where you'll find them. To cut off from the 600 million that all the taxpayers in PPC pay for pensions and that you gave each year and, immediately, how the equivalent was found. But that's what they want. They want a political force. They want a vision that, unfortunately, from your Programmatic Declarations I did not see exist. Ladies and gentlemen, the good changes and reforms in that country will need - and they need - social calm and political cooperation and consensus. You have to pursue it. Nothing will come on its own and sky down. He wants work to do there. And because the world won't dip when it starts to feel the weight of the memorials, then that's where you're gonna need all the "bi" you have to get through. But you alone won't make it. We, the Potami, will follow the path of creative opposition, as we have done in the past seven months. However, we do not give you a vote of confidence, because we simply don't trust you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr Amyras, the last speaker. The second day of discussion on the government's programming statements has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-06-S1-commons.u416	With the agreement of the House at 0.21 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday, 7 October 2015 at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: Continuing the debate on the Programmatic Declarations of the Government and voting to give Parliament's confidence in the government, according to the special agenda distributed.
