ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-2-2015 authorisation, the minutes of its 11th session of Wednesday, 18 February 2015, with regard to the election of the President of the Republic, were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to inform you that today at noon I welcomed the President of the House of Representatives of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Giannakis Homer. I expressed to him the unresolved and unresolved feelings of solidarity and the Greek Parliament in the face of the fairness of the Cypriot people and at the same time had the opportunity to discuss issues of parliamentary diplomacy and the activation of parliaments throughout Europe in the direction of protecting parliamentary democracy and popular sovereignty so much at risk in the context of a reduction in democratic procedures, through the regime of monuments imposed in many countries. Before entering the agenda, which concerns the specific issue of the waiver of immunity, I would like to make some announcements to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. If you wish to join the Chamber, because you are concerned by the announcements, and I think you are interested in them. The first communication is that it has been published and published in the Parliamentary Transparency, my decision on the recommendation and on the definition of the responsibilities of the Permanent Committees of the Parliament. It was therefore decided, on 20 February 2015, to set up the committees provided for in Article 31 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Permanent Committees of Parliament for the First Session of this Parliament and set up the following Standing Committees: the Standing Committee on Formatistic Affairs, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, the Public Order and Justice and the Standing Committee on Production and Trade. Because, as you may know, and as I must inform you, when there is a merger of Ministries or the creation of new Ministries, it is necessary to re-establish the responsibilities of the Standing Committees, I inform you that the Standing Committee on Formatography is responsible for the issues of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs is responsible for matters of the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is responsible for issues of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of State for combating corruption and prosecuting economic crime. In this part I would like to point out that there is co-responsibility, shared competence, and with the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs is responsible for matters relating to the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity and the Ministry of Health and Social Security. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice is responsible for issues of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Minister of State for the fight against corruption, as foretold, as well as for the Minister of State, to which the General Secretariats for Information and Communication and Promotion are attached. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade is responsible for the issues of the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. According to the letters sent by the parties' parliamentary groups, invited in due course and legally, the committees have been set up. However, I must announce that after the establishment, which was made by the decision No 2428/1523 of 21 February 2015 and which has also been posted to the 'Social Transparency' - the previous decision is 2427/1522 of 20 February 2015 - the New Democracy Parliamentary Group has today sent out a corrigendum to the committees, so that the effort will be made so that the committees can be re-appointed and there is a final setting-up of committees tomorrow, when Members are invited to elect the Bureaus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u2	The second issue before the day before, which I must inform you - it concerns you and it concerns us - is that there are arguments put forward to the House against former and former Ministers. In particular, on 30-12-2014, the former Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Athanasios, had been transferred to Parliament under Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 “Priminal liability of Ministers”, a criminal case for the former Minister of National Defence Mr. Panagiotis Beglitis. On 20 January 2015, from the former Minister of Justice, Mr Athanasios, a criminal court procedure concerning former Minister of Interior Mr Argyri Dinopoulou, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Theophilos Letonidis and Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr George Dolios had been transmitted. These motions were not communicated to the House, because the House was already dissolved when they were forwarded. Also, since the creation of the House, with its current composition, three criminal proceedings have been passed, and in particular, by the current Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Nikos Paradropoulou. In particular, a criminal case-file, formed following the 3-6-2014 report of the legal person private law under the name ‘Pallenian Federation of Scientific Health Associations’, concerning the former State Secretary for Health, Mr Antonio Beza, concerning the execution of the offence of a duty allegedly carried out by him in the performance of his duties or by issuing his circulars to the governors of all health regions has been transmitted. The case-file was forwarded on 11 February 2015. On the same date, 11 February 2015, criminal court proceedings were sent, concerning former Ministers of National Defence Apostolos - Athanasios Tsohazopoulou, Giannos Papantoniou, Evangelos Meimarakis and Evangelos Venizelos, concerning the investigation of complaints that took place on 21-1-2014 on the TV show “Notorified Zone” of the “EPSILON TV” TV station, concerning the procedures for supplying armaments for the Armed Forces. On 20 February 2015, a criminal case-file was forwarded as of 16 December 2014, bearing as consignor of the DU Glyfada and referring to the former Deputy Minister of Finance George Mavragani, for possible criminal responsibilities in relation to what is set out in that report. I would remind you that these criminal proceedings are forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution, which expressly stipulates that only Parliament has the power to prosecute those who have been or have been members of the Government or State Secretarys for criminal offences which they have committed in the performance of their duties, as laid down in the law. It's about n. 3126/19-3-2003. ‘It shall be prohibited to introduce specific ministerial offences, prosecution, interrogation, pre-examination or preliminary examination against the persons and for the offences referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be permitted without a prior decision of the Parliament, in accordance with paragraph 3. If, in the context of another investigation, pre-examination or pre-examination or administrative examination, data relating to the persons and offences referred to in the preceding paragraph are obtained, they shall be transmitted without delay to the House by the person acting on the interrogation, pre-examination or examination. A proposal to prosecute shall be submitted by at least thirty MPs. The Parliament, by its decision, taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, shall establish a special parliamentary committee to carry out a preliminary examination. Otherwise, the proposal is rejected as manifestly unfounded. The conclusion of the committee referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be inserted in the Plenary Session, which shall decide whether or not to prosecute. The decision in question shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members.' [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask you to be less noisy. The old may have long experience and documents and transfers, but the younger ones do not. It is good to be absolutely clear and transparent in the procedures we are following, on matters relating to the exercise of Parliament's jurisdiction. ‘The Parliament may exercise its powers, in accordance with paragraph 1, until the end of the second regular session of the parliamentary term starting after the crime has been committed. Following the procedure and the majority of the first subparagraph of that paragraph, the Parliament may at any time revoke its decision or suspend proceedings, proceedings or main proceedings.’ And the description continues in relation to the hearing. You know that for the first time tomorrow the Special Court meets on such a matter, after too many years. I would like to remind you that although the Constitution gives Parliament a very important responsibility and responsibility, the Rules of Procedure of the House and the practice of previous years had emerged inappropriate in relation to the handling of these cases. Proceedings were summarized in plenary without special reference - not many times - to the ministers themselves and then sent to the legislative service from which, normally, they did not give copies of the criminal proceedings. This, in fact, produced the substantive limitation or limitation arguments given the very narrow deadlines. I shall raise this issue in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure because the House to which it is forwarded by the Prosecutor, i.e. the judicial authority, through the Minister of Justice, namely the executive authority, of procedurals, in order to exercise its powers, cannot act incompletely and cannot decide. It is therefore necessary to provide for the procedure for dealing with criminal proceedings brought to Parliament by justice and not fall into a black well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION OF BULLETIN REQUESTS FOR AUTHORITY BULLETIN Debates and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis. I would like to remind you of the following, which is why this delay in the sitting has been delayed. Although an invitation has been sent to the Members of Parliament who are prisoners temporarily to participate in the voting process, the public prosecutors have not been given permission, but without any special reasons that can be accepted by the House. In particular, there is an indication that their presence in Parliament is not an exceptional and unforeseen need for temporary detainees. In view of the fact that the public prosecutor's practice throughout this entire period has not been to treat parliamentary duties as a minor one, and given that this was also the case in the last month of the previous parliamentary term, after discussing the matter in the Bureau of Parliament with the participation of all the Vice-Presidents, we decided that this is a reason for a brief postponement of the debate tomorrow, at 18.30 hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u5	Allow me. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Georgiadis. We have therefore decided that this fact is a reason for a brief postponement of the debate tomorrow 18.30' so that the composition of Parliament is complete and that all the Members of Parliament can exercise their duty in the course of the roll-call vote. This is therefore the report from the Bureau as a whole to plenary, and of course the plenary will dominately decide whether or not to postpone the sitting. Mr Georgiadis, as you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Madam President, I would like to ask the House to decide to continue this procedure for this reason. It is a case - I will then explain what it is all about - I am unauthorized. During the previous composition of the House due to Mr Marcoyannakis' disease, the debate was postponed for one week. Following the dismantling of the House on account of the issue of the President of the Republic was not discussed on the day it had to be discussed. Now I come here today. All this time I have to respond to articles, comments, judgments, various cases that concern me personally. And tomorrow I can't be here. There will be a meeting without me because I have arranged for obligations, since you invited me to be here today. Please very much. I understand your reasons, but I would like to ask my fellow Members to vote for the House to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u7	First of all, the vote shall take place when such a procedure begins. So those of you who want to place by abatement, if there is a coarse placement process, you will thus manifest your position. Mr. Georgiades, what you're presenting is respected. However, I must say to this House as a whole that this is indeed a matter pending from the previous parliamentary term. It is a case that was transmitted on 9 October 2014, returned to the prosecutor on 10 October and returned on 21 October. Since October 21, unfortunately, the committee of the previous period met on December 18, 2014, after a postponement on December 10, 2014. Parliament was dissolved on 31 December and the deadlines were interrupted, which are very specific - it is three months - which means that this House too had very short frameworks to complete a process, but that the Members of this House here, for the first time, are called on to do this. The reasonable question you raise and I would ask you to rethink it by depleting your flexibilities is another subject of a different order and another nature from the need for Parliament to operate with all its Members if they wish to carry out their duties. It is a different matter that you raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u9	Madam President, excuse me, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u10	Has anyone else asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Koutsoukos has asked for the floor. Please, Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, what you have said is real facts, but I would like to inform my fellow Members that none of them is my fault. I'm not responsible for anything you said. I have been slandered by the press on a case in which the previous committee, acting unanimously, with the exception of the Golden Dawn voted'residents', voted 'no' to lift my immunity, and I come here and you tell me to postpone and, indeed, to tomorrow when I cannot be present? I beg your pardon very much, but if tomorrow's prosecutor refuses to come the Golden Dawn colleagues, should I continue to be? I would like to ask the House - the House is the sovereign - to decide to continue the process. I didn't say that the MPs wouldn't vote. To vote whatever they want. But this story must end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u13	What I am bringing you, Mr Georgiadis, - and I address the whole House - is the unanimous decision of the Bureau, including the Vice-President from New Democracy, that the House should not accept an ad hoc reduction in its composition. Mr. Koutsoukos has been asked for the floor. Mr Kutsuko, as a parliamentary representative, are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u14	Yes, Madam President, and thank you. Madam President, I would like to point out that we must know and know your responsibilities. You don't have to remind us every time. I would like to ask you to follow the practice of previous Presidents, that is, on matters relating to the planning of work, consult the Conference of Presidents. The Conference of Presidents has not met for a month, the House is not working, so I think it is your duty to plan. Secondly, on the agenda for the waiver of immunity, Madam President, I respect your sensitivity, and I also respect the request made by the colleague who is being disqualified and may well be disguised, because when discussions are being held on the waiver of immunity, a number of questions are written. Madam President, I would like to ask you to tell us your opinion - to count on our vote too - whether you think that the House should be binding on the decisions of judges and judges at all times. Because tomorrow, for example, they may not give a leave or a day after tomorrow, a colleague may be sentenced to prison. Will the House be binding on justice decisions? You must make that clear to us, so that we can count on our vote. I repeat that I say this with respect and your sensitivity and my colleague's request. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u15	First of all, Mr Kutsuko, let me inform you of something, because it may have dispersed your attention, but it doesn't matter. It is good, however, that we do not rush to shoot if we are not informed. Let me inform you, then, that the Conference of Presidents is formed by the Rules of Procedure, beyond the Bureau of the House, by the Chairmans of the Special Committees, who are elected tomorrow, and also by the chairmans of committees which have not been elected. [[Noise - protests from the wings of the New Democracy and the PASOK]] Therefore, your recommendation to participate and take a decision of the Conference of Presidents is irrelevant. It goes without saying that the Conference of Presidents as soon as it is set up will meet. Of course, however, I imagine that it is a long way from your desire and from your recommendation, until the Conference of Presidents is set up, which for the first time is set up so quickly and for the first time committees are elected so soon after this House has been set up, the will not to operate any collective body in this House and not to meet the Bureau either. [[Noise - protests from the wings of the New Democracy and the PASOK]] I, with respect for the collective procedures, until the Conference of Presidents is established, on all matters, inform the Vice-Presidents of Parliament and all the representatives of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u16	Were the parties informed of the postponement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u17	Ours didn't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u18	I would ask you, Mr Loverdo, to take the floor. There's a procedure. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Panayotaros, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Article 52 of the Constitution states: "The free and unadulterated expression of popular will, as an expression of popular sovereignty, is guaranteed by all the officials of the state, who have an obligation to ensure it in any case. The law lays down criminal penalties against the offenders of that provision.’ The House operates with three hundred MPs. It's not working with two hundred ninety-four. We know that you dislike us, you hate us, and you wouldn't want us here in any way. But once the Greek people, with a very fresh people's mandate, have classified us as a third political force, you must respect it and it is not possible for a low-ranking prosecutor to change the whole of the city. That's what we're asking for. We apologise for the arrest of Mr Adonnis Georgiadis and others, but think that some people are also eighteen months of temporary prisoners, without any criticism on the substance, which most of you say is on the wells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u21	The former President of Parliament, Mr. Meimarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u22	Madam President, first of all I would like to make two - three comments from the beginning that you have taken the floor. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that under the Rules of Procedure the Bureau is obliged to announce the cases and dossiers that come from the prosecutor's office by the Minister of Justice. That is what all the Presidents of Parliament have always done, we have announced it, and so it is not something that is happening for the first time. I'm saying that, so I can close the first thing and get it over with. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that this House has decided that it can work with the Members present. It is not compulsory to be all three hundred in the Chamber. The Rules of Procedure shall determine on the basis of which number decisions are taken. That is why it stipulates that they are received by a majority of the Members present or by a majority of three hundred or three-five or by two-thirds regardless of, that is, ladies and gentlemen - since the President invokes the younger colleagues - how many we would be present. For example, in the vote on the election of the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic had to take two hundred votes. Let two hundred vote one, let two hundred five vote. We didn't have to be three hundred. Also, the Rules do not examine why someone is absent, why he is ill or why he is abroad or why he is in prison or why the prosecutor did not authorize him for any reason or why his child has something. There have never been any votes, much more for the lifting of immunity, which the three hundred were here. We have always been missing and there have always been absenteeism and there has always been a majority of them at the moment, the decision that we usually followed the right to vote on the report made to us by the Ethics Committee. Thirdly, Madam President, there is certainly no Conference of Presidents and there are no committees chairmen. But there are the parties' secretaries and the Bureau. The Bureau is not alone. The House is sovereign. The Chamber is dominant by a majority. So it's not up to the Bureau to decide. The Bureau does not decide, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. The Bureau is proposing to this House and this House to take a decision if we want to comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u23	You should have said that when you were president!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Lafazani, say it yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u25	When I told you, you were telling me no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u26	Because here all Parliament's decisions, which were taken by a majority, where some colleagues could not come, will finally come decisions that do not apply! To conclude, Madam President, I believe, firstly, that since you signed the agenda for today, you cannot make yourself known and call us for tomorrow afternoon. On Wednesday afternoon, we do not usually have a meeting, and most colleagues, because we would not have a Thursday, are likely to be in their constituencies and everything. Finally, since this House is present and can decide and we can decide whether or not to waive the immunity of our colleague, since there is a committee's recommendation and we have all read it, I think that this House, without further intervention, must vote whether or not it accepts that today's agenda, which the President has signed, should not be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u27	Let me clarify the following: Mr. Meimarakis, you probably didn't hear me from the beginning. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Obviously the Bureau is recommending to the House and this unanimous recommendation I have conveyed to the House and I am pleased that you share this principle. With regard to the issue raised, first of all, I would like to say that I do not share the view that Parliament can decide without the Members, nor that Members can ever come and sometimes not come. But here we are not dealing with voluntary absence. This is where we are dealing with an obstacle to participation. In fact, what Parliament is called upon to decide is whether the composition of the House can be changed on the basis of non-specific criteria, i.e. whether to participate in parliamentary proceedings at one time will be a reason for permission from the public prosecutor and it will not be at one time. My view, in response to Mr Koutsoukos as well as to the debate on the position of at least the President - and I have the feeling of the whole Bureau, on the basis of what we have discussed and decided - is that the composition of the House cannot be influenced by other institutions, by other functions of the democratic culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u29	In view of the fact that licences have been issued throughout the past period and there is no reason to mention the decision that specializes not to grant but, in general, to reduce parliamentary function, in the view of the Bureau, there is a question of the formation of the House. That's it. I think I covered you, Mr. Kutsuko, in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u30	That is the view of the President, not the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u31	In connection with the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups, I should like to inform you that they are all aware of the procedure. On this issue, which was raised at 17.00 this afternoon, the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament and the Vice-President from your party were informed. [[Noise in the Chamber]] First of all, I would like to inform you that on the basis of the specific agenda and on the basis of a proportionate application that we have followed for this sitting, two special speakers have been appointed, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. On the majority side, in other words on the SYRIZA side, Mr Syragos and on the minority side Mr Georgantas was appointed. Of course they can ask and take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u32	Aren't there any other parties?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, according to your opinion, the House will never function, since the prosecutor will not give the permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u34	In the meantime, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr. Friend and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr. Mitsotakis have spoken. Please, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u35	Madam President, I understand your sensitivity that there is no objection that Members are being prevented from expressing their opinion, who are under the special circumstances. We all know that. I also understand that Mr Georgiadis is raising his arguments, especially the suffering, as he says - although I do not quite understand the suffering - and, in any case, he has a problem with tomorrow's sitting. I think we can meet another day instead of tomorrow if Mr Georgiadis can't. We can postpone for another day, so that the matter you have raised - the operation of Parliament in full - and the problem of the suffering caused by Mr Georgiadis to be solved without further debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u36	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Mitsotakis, has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, the issue is much more essential and serious than providing a facility to Mr Georgiadis so that he can defend himself. What is it that differentiates this particular vote from any other function of Parliament? In your own sense Parliament will not be able to be elected tomorrow by the Chairmans of the Standing Committees if the prosecutor does not allow the convicted Members of the Golden Dawn to attend. The House will therefore be hostage to judicial power and when it will choose to grant the relevant permission. That is something that cannot be accepted by this House. It is something that runs counter to the practices of the previous House and under no circumstances can the New Democracy defend this practice. I think that we are opening a ferry which is extremely dangerous for the way in which Parliament itself operates, if we consider it necessary in any case and in every Parliament the presence of the Members of the Golden Dawn, as the prosecutor considers appropriate. This is something that the New Democracy cannot accept, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u38	Let me tell you that it is important also to reverse, that is, if we believe that Parliament can function without its full composition. And if we're...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u39	Of course he can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u40	The older ones allow other views. However, for certain, Mr Mitsotakis, this House will not apply any practices...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u41	Madam President, I request the floor on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u42	Mrs. Bakoyannis, I'll give you the floor. You are shouting at the time when your parliamentary representative, Mr Mitsotakis, speaks and you are putting me in a dilemma to which you must not put me. You have a parliamentary representative and I will give you the floor, which they have never done in any previous period for any Vice-Presidents of your party. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, will you not give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u45	Because I see that there are too many Members who are asking for the floor and because it has been raised from the outset, and in the Bureau of Parliament where your party was represented, Mr Mitsotakis, the decision was unanimous, what I would suggest in this House is that we should take a ten-minute break in order to consult the parliamentary representatives and the Bureau. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u46	We're interrupting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u48	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u49	Since it was not possible to find a unanimous acceptable solution to the Bureau and with the participation of the representatives of the parties, and in particular, while there was a unanimous agreement, finally the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy withdrew his support for this unanimous proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u50	No, there was no unanimity! Don't say that! Please, I'm asking for the floor! You won't put words in my mouth that I haven't said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u51	In the hallway, Mr. Mitsotakis, after we went out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u52	Please withdraw it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u53	Well, given that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u54	Rescind it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u55	You will ask for the floor and I will give you the floor. Don't get exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u56	I will immediately ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u57	In view of the fact that there was no unanimous solution to propose to this House, a vote will be taken on this matter to decide on this matter. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has asked for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u59	I saw you, Mr. Venizelo. I saw you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u60	Presidents of the parties are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u61	I'll give you the floor. You'll get ahead of yourself. I saw you. I also made a nod for seeing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u62	I'm not familiar with your kinetics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u63	Try to get acquainted with the parliamentary procedure. The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group has asked for the floor, and there is also the Parliamentary Representative of the River, who had asked for the floor beforehand, and there are fellow Members...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Paphis is next, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u65	There is the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece. There is the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. There are two Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Athanasios, who are not entitled to speak, but in any case, in the interests of the procedure we will give them the floor. Mr Venizelos, you have the floor as President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u66	Madam President, I have heard from the closed television circuit in this House the view that you have expressed previously on how this House is being formed and whether the competent prosecutor was right or wrong, refusing to give permission to attend the sitting today to Members of Parliament who are under temporary detention. The view you have put forward is unmistakable, contrary to the Constitution, and is brutally violating the principle of separation of powers. You have attempted, in your view, to unfairly dictate your political will to the competent prosecutor, namely an independent lifelong judiciary judged in court. You have violated the principle of discrimination in this way. Because if the opinion of the President of this House is that when temporary Members are not authorised to be detained, the House is not legally constituted, then you are blackmailing justice to decide in a way that makes Parliament's formation legal - allegedly - lawful. You have raised the issue of legal formation and, therefore, legal decision-making in the past. Fortunately the case-law and the theory of Constitutional Law judges that Parliament's internal issues, even in itself, as an interna corporation, are not subject to judicial review. Of course, however, nothing excludes a change in case-law. The Court of Auditors on its own matters considers that the internal organization and functioning of the House are also concerned with the control of constitutionality. So, because you are elected, and in our vote as guardian of parliamentaryism, democracy and the rule of law with regard to Parliament and its functions, I would like to ask you to withdraw what you have said, to rejoice at the height of your seat, because otherwise I must point out that you are using an institutional function, which you have in the name of the House as neutral President, in order to channel the political views of the party from which you come and in order to break the balance between the separation of powers. This is an unprecedented phenomenon. This is an insult to the constitutional order at its core, which is the rule of law, which is more important than the democratic principle and the parliamentary principle. In fact, you want to put pressure on justice to lift temporary detention. You're influencing the forthcoming judiciary in the matter of the Golden Dawn. You now have the last chance to restore the constitutional order and democratic authority of this House and of the majority party, from which you come.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u67	You're done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u68	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u69	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Friend, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, it is slowly taking the issue on the initiative of - it is true - the parties in the opposition that were neither in your intention nor in ours. No one is asking for the balance of discretion to be violated. No one resorts to legislation, constitutional theories, in order to change the criminal treatment of the judiciaries of the Golden Dawn, etc. None of this is happening. We ask for self-evident. It seemed, at a time when common sense can prevail - I mean the limited composition of the Bureau Conference - that there could be a unanimous conclusion. The ending was unanimous at the moment I have to say, unfortunately, and the corridor, although it's small, it's all the way from here to there, it seemed to be long enough. It was therefore the unanimous conclusion at the moment: firstly, to state unanimously, as a parliament, that the decision of the prosecutor with whom membership was blocked today and was not allowed to come here to vote is not sufficiently justified. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u71	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u72	Please, Mr. Venizelo! At times it is not possible for constitutionalism here to go beyond the political debate. Let go of it now. No mercy, nothing. It was a unanimous position of all parties at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u73	She wasn't unanimous. Please, I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u74	Okay. Mr. Mitsotakis has the right to say that he was not unanimous. We were all there and we heard. Secondly, if this is accepted - and we propose that it be accepted by Parliament - that we proceed today to the procedure for applying for the waiver of immunity of Mr Georgiadis. This is the proposal that we are making and please, after a brief debate, put to the vote in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u75	On staff, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Mr Theocharis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Party, Potami, has been asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u77	It precedes the staff under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Mitsotakis, if you think you have staff, you will be given the floor afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u79	Madam President, I have asked for the floor beforehand, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u80	They didn't realize there was any staff. But I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u81	Maybe you should check your hearing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u82	Don't worry, I'll give you the floor. Medical advice is good to limit them where they are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u83	What are these things, Madam President, about medical advice?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u84	Your parliamentary representative, Mr. Screka, has given medical advice. So call him, and call him not. And if you have the courage of your opinion and your voice, you can ask for the floor. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is clear that the principle of separation of powers here should lead our positions. In our view, the House cannot be hostage to the decisions of a prosecutor and should therefore not decide to postpone this sitting. On the other hand, it is obvious that the prosecutors, when taking decisions relating to the functioning of the House, if you wish, should consider the issues twice and their justification should be even more adequate than usual. In other cases they do. So what we believe is that the issue should be put to the vote as soon as possible, after all the parties have been placed and that we vote for the continuation of the procedure, since the defendant has agreed and asked for the continuation of the procedure, to be concluded today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u86	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u87	Didn't you hear the staff again, Madam President? Didn't you hear that again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u88	Give him the floor. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u89	You're welcome, Mr. Mitsotakis. I told you I'd give you the floor. Even the procedure is not so personally involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u90	You are well aware that, under the Rules of Procedure, you must give the floor immediately to staff and because there is obviously a personal issue when you put words in my mouth which I did not say, I must point out to the House what was discussed at the Conference. The New Democracy's view was clear that the vote must be taken today and that it is not possible for this House to give any admonition or encouragement to the judiciary, for a decision it has taken under a law that this House itself has voted on. I am therefore entirely in line with Mr Venizelos's views - I imagine that he also expresses the views of PASOK - that there is in no way a consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u91	We know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u92	Wait, Mr. Lafasan. That bothers you. Wait. You'll talk too. So the New Democracy's view is quite clear. The vote must take place today and under no circumstances can there be any postponement of the vote, let alone the reasoning which you have put forward. In no case will the New Democracy consent to any unanimous encouragement of this House to independent judicial authority on how it performs its duties. That is what I have to say, in order to avoid any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u93	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u94	Madam President, what we have said at the Conference is that this debate cannot, by the way, be held on the whole issue. There is a practice so far how it would be handled. Whether it will change or not change, it cannot be solved by the way we are here now. That is why we are saying that we should move forward and, at some point in time, set this general debate and place each party in place, take all the responsibilities, on how we deal with all these issues, but now do not delay. That is why we agreed and did not hope that this whole debate would take place. So we insist on moving forward and ending it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u95	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks has asked for the floor and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn and the Minister of Interior, Mr. Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u96	We, the ordinary parliamentarians, don't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u97	Mrs Bakoyannis, as I said before, you and Mr Athanasios have asked for the floor. This is not the case, but if you insist, I will give you the floor. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u98	I insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u99	Madam President, first of all I feel the need, because I participated, to inform my colleagues and colleagues of what was said a few minutes ago in your office. So, in the end, everyone has agreed that there is one issue and that is why we all said together that this issue will be put before you move on to the vote and you will say that nobody wants to interfere with the decisions of justice but that it is our duty to ask for it to be sufficiently reasoned - that is precisely the wording - that is the decision. It was not an opinion of the President or one of the parties' representatives. And we all thought that this is how we will be discussing it, perhaps at another time, as the Communist Party said, to see whether it is possible for Members to be absent by voting for the people in such votes, where at times, if any, what has been implied - or so I understand - by the President of the PASOK, to be self-interested, to have calculations on whether or not he is being referred to, whether he'should sit on the stool' by another defendant. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Madam President, that is why we believe that we really need to proceed to the vote today. But all Members here should know that this unanimous decision has been changed, that other Members of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Meymarakis, and the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikita Kaklamani, are present, that outside the President's office and while we were gone, Mr Mitsotakis has changed his mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u100	It's not what you call it! The President interrupted the debate and retired...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u101	I do not know if he had been in touch with Mr Venizelos a little bit, because I have heard that they have been completely random and have been drafted. I don't know, and it's none of my business. I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to proceed to the vote today. It has already been stated what has to be expressed by many Members of Parliament, and I believe that what we have said in the absence of colleagues has been said here, in their presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u102	As far as we are concerned, I think that we are left with the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative, the Interior Minister and the two Members. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u103	For information to the House, the reasoning of the Deputy Public Prosecutor for the rejection - because the Public Prosecutor was not in his place - is as follows: 'The parliamentary meetings do not fall within the meaning of the professional needs of the detainees'. If this is what honours Parliament and all of you who are Members of Parliament, then you can move on to any vote on any withdrawal or any other matter. As for what has been heard before, we will comment on the fact that they are honourers of democracy or of the institutions, who had once said - the older ones remember them much better - and they had approved the coloured lists in some electoral procedures to know what Members are voting on. And they're talking about distinguishing powers, when everyone has heard the Prime Minister's phone conversation with a senior minister, what told him to do with three Golden Dawn Members when they were going to the interrogator, when everyone has heard and seen the Baltaku video, which has been fully confirmed in word to what has been done. Then we have the confessions of the former Prime Minister, who said at least at the beginning that I did not call or the confession of the former Minister of Justice, who twice admitted in Parliament that he called, just to know and see what is happening. These are serious things. I say this to see how democracy works and, if you like, to talk further about distinguishing powers. That's all I'm not gonna say. And anyone who wants to ostracize can do it directly. Golden Dawn won't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u104	Mrs. Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u105	Madam President, I would like to have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u106	Mrs. Bakoyannis, would Mr. Meimarakis be the former President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Meimarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u109	Madam President, I think this is an unfortunate time for Parliament, because if you had asked us and consulted the parties, perhaps this debate was not held today, and it was held at the Conference of Presidents, and immediately thereafter, it was also held in plenary. First of all, I should like to say to the Golden Dawn that a confiscated MP might be present tomorrow morning by another party. It's not an ideological matter. It is an issue which we need to resolve here. Once the law, ladies and gentlemen, allows those who have not been convicted of their political rights to be candidates from prison too, to stand for and stand for election, we are all concerned. It's a special matter. Don't look at it as Golden Dawn or anything else. Ask yourself: Can the House, as a third pillar of democracy, be hostage to any prosecutor, whether or not to leave any convicted MP for any criminal offence, such as for a car accident? Forget about Golden Dawn. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, took place at the Conference of Presidents during the days I was President and the Members of the Golden Dawn were confiscated. The House took a decision. It has solved the matter at the previous Session. For me, it is not just a point of order, it is a matter of substance, ladies and gentlemen, if this House finally considers that its previous term of office is legal and correct, or if it does not work again, because the prosecutor of the seat and the agency will judge that he cannot give permission and we will be bound by such a decision of this House. It is not simple, then, to talk about it here and make decisions. Let me say, Madam President, that I do not understand your selective sensitivity to this particular issue. I do not understand it, Madam President, because it is your third problem within a very short period of time. Today you mentioned the statements by the prosecutor and mentioned the names of colleagues, including my own, without having informed us, changing the practice - because the Rules say that a statement is being made in this House and if 50 Members apply, it is being discussed in this House - and without mentioning - why I, from you, from the Chair, have heard and I have been informed - that the prosecutor judges - as far as I have been able to read - that the case should go to the archives and simply send it to the House. The same - if I'm not mistaken - happened to Mr. Venizelos. But in public opinion, with that change that you have made, we will be in mud that the prosecutor has sent a case-file here and since you mentioned the name, you have to be due to the sensitivity you have, to say that the prosecutor of Hera suggests that the specific cases, which he has examined, should be filed. Otherwise, you leave us unexposed. Your third point - which none of us wanted to be misinterpreted, and that is why we did not discuss it, but I mentioned it in your office - is that you have taken a agenda for the election of the President of the Republic, without knowing the name and without having a letter from the party's leader who he proposes. Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are not animals if we are seen by some people. The Rules of Procedure set a specific deadline for us and our parties to consult. And of course Mr Pavlopoulou was proposed, for which we did not object, and PASOK and Potami proposed the chosen Mr Alivizatos, but the irregularity remains, Madam President, on a very serious matter of Parliament's plenary. The Rules stipulate not only for five days but that you should have obtained the approval of the Chief of the First Party, which proposes the name and then, after it has been announced, take the agenda. Where do you get the right to take such initiatives on your own? You tell us that there is no Conference of Presidents. So I say to you that when the House goes to the Summer Departments, we have no Conference of Presidents. However, the President of Parliament has never been able to understand, not to invite the Bureau and the representatives of the parties, to raise matters, to discuss them and to make a decision there. I, on several occasions, invited the representatives of both your party and the other parties and discussed them in order to avoid this Parliament's report to the public. It's not the best time today, with your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u110	Are you addressing us, Mr. Maymarakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u111	I'm addressing you, Mr. Lafazani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u112	Poor thing. The House didn't work. You broke everything. Do self-criticism too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u113	Look, Mr Lafazani, I will not tell you either of these tons or of nothing, but what we have to point out is what we are talking about. You have accepted both the Memorandum and the Troika, and everything and you want here in Parliament too to force us to discuss your own way of discussing it! That won't pass! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You should understand that! Parliament is a Parliament, and here you will allow us to discuss and say our opinion. Or close that, too! Because that is what the President has tried to do today! So if we don't have the D.A.'s decisions tomorrow or tomorrow, will this House be working? So please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u114	This has nothing to do with everything you say. Do self-criticism because you dissolved the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u115	Madam President, let us, at this unfortunate moment, go through and vote on this House, because this House is sovereign. It is not the President or the Bureau. It recommends to the House that the House decide by a majority that the vote should be taken today, that the ballot be set up and that we move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Mairakis, thank you. How much I would have wished for everything you said, that we had lived through them throughout the previous parliamentary term! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to tell you that Parliament will always be a place of confrontation and debate and dialogue and - why not? - what some don't want to get out of the light better to be discussed and everyone should take responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u117	So tell me the case went to the file.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u118	I will give you the floor, if you will, because if you are shouting, without having given you the floor, I simply can't hear you. In relation to the procedure laid down in Article 86 of the Constitution - perhaps you were not at the start of the procedure - I specifically referred to the provisions of the Constitution requiring the procedural documents to be communicated to the House. And, of course, a statement in this House is not a hypocritical reference without courtesy, no information of transmission and no names. On the other hand, what you are saying - that it may also be possible to send documents for persons accountable to them and also documents for persons for whom there will be no procedural follow-up - it cannot be the result of a non-procedure, but it must be the result of an orderly procedure and decision in Parliament. In the previous parliamentary term, unfortunately the documents were concealed by the Members and were not given. In connection with it, I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u119	No, Madam President. Proceedings were announced. The names of colleagues were not allowed to be announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u120	They were always announced, except for some presidents who chose not to announce.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u121	Please establish your complaint because it is serious and tell us which case has not been communicated in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Mairakis, you don't have the floor. I will give you the floor when you ask him, after I have completed my answer to what you have put in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u124	But I'll give you the floor. Do you not want the procedural answer to be heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u125	That's why I'm telling you, when you're sitting in this chair, to build what you're saying. I would therefore ask you to tell us today what case-file has not been communicated to the House in my day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u126	I'll tell you one that wasn't given to copies, and it's the census of the memorandum...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u127	Didn't you get copies?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u128	...in spite of multiple written applications. It is a case-file forwarded on 26 November 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you for confirming that they have all been notified to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u130	With regard to the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic, the first thing I have to say to you - because in a parliamentary procedure we owe each other honesty and trustworthy conduct, which also contains the conflict - is that it is bad faith in what you said, namely that the parties were not informed, because your parties and your parliamentary representative, Mr Mitsotakis, were informed before the agenda was issued...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u131	That's not accurate. Staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u132	...and, furthermore, no party in Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u133	Lie, Madam President. Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u134	All parliamentary representatives can confirm this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u135	It's a shame to say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u136	In addition, no party in Parliament raised any objections to the procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u137	Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u138	...but instead, most parties participated in the process with proposals from presidents. He has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u139	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u140	We will not allow the debate to continue any further. Mrs Bakoyannis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u141	Lie, Madam President. Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u142	Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u143	You sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u144	I'm sitting down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u145	Go to the cabinet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u146	I have given the floor to Mrs Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u147	I am sure Mrs Bakoyannis gives her position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u148	I have given the floor to Mrs Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u149	I'm sorry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u150	Mrs. Bakoyannis, give up your right to speak? If you do not give up that right, I give you the floor. If you do not want to speak, I will give the floor to the next speaker who is Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u151	The staff are ahead of us, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u152	You want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u153	I'm giving up my turn. But I want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Bakoyannis resigns. I therefore give the floor to Mr Athanasios. Mr. Athanasios, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u155	Madam President, on personal occasions!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u156	You have the floor, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u157	On staff, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u158	Please give the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u159	What does the Rules of Procedure stipulate, Madam President? Have you forgotten about the Rules of Procedure now? Does it or does it not provide that the sequence of speakers is interrupted if there is a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u160	Give the floor, please. That's right. The Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Mitsotakis, no one denied you the floor. But you're trying to interrupt the conversation by shouting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u162	I'm not trying, lie. I denounce that you're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u163	You can report me when I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u164	So why don't you want to hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u165	For the time being, Mr Athanasios has the floor. Mr. Athanasios, will you speak or resign?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u166	Let Mrs. Bakoyannis precede...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u167	Madam President, you are not entitled to give me the floor. You're not entitled to play...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u168	You have the floor, Mrs Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u169	So Mrs Bakoyannis will take the lead and I'll take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u170	You have the floor, Mrs Bakoyannis. I gave you the floor. I almost begged you to take the floor. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, this is the second time this evening you are trying to do, with a very cheap trick, 'games', because the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy is my brother. I'll beg you not to do it again. It's cheap. When someone hides behind the position of the President and indeed of a President that I voted on, I do not want to see the Bureau of the House succeed in making this point. I'm closing this. Ladies and gentlemen, I tried to speak before. The lawmaker and constitutionalist, Mr. Venizelos, said so much more correctly. In democracy, the process is not a type, it is a substance. It is therefore an extremely important decision. I understand that new colleagues, who have entered the House for the first time, may have a slight chance of the heart and the logic of the television dialogue going through it - let me say 'in the duo'. But it's not like that. How Parliament will function and whether Parliament can actually take decisions without being dependent on decisions by a prosecutor or a judicial authority, it is a basic principle. So I do not want to tell my friend Mr Lafazani, and I will not say it, Mr Lafazani, what would you say when you were a parliamentary representative, if the President of the then Greek Parliament, Vangelis Meimarakis, came and made the same suggestion. And because I know what you would say, but because I think it is a shame for Parliament to be said in this House, I will not say it. But the reality is, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an extremely serious matter. I am pleased that - if I understood well between Mr Philly's context - this is, in fact, considered to be nothing more than a word. And it would be good if it were never said, ladies and gentlemen. For regardless of our differences, we are parties, we have different views, we can'make sure of' the memorials, the memorials, the institutions, the troikas. Here we are to talk. But how this Parliament will function is a very serious matter for us to take the heart lightly. So I am glad that, as far as I can tell, all the wings of this House agree to deal with the matter with the seriousness of it. I am pleased that, as I understand it, our newly appointed President has taken note of the seriousness of the matter. I welcome the fact that she has done so in the enthusiasm of her new duties. From there on, however, let us move on to the process, because only when we move on to the process will it be a definitive response to this issue which has been raised. There can be nothing to remove immunity, but - I repeat - in the Greek Parliament and in democracy the process has substance. And the best answer of this House is to vote now for the lifting or non-removal of Mr Georgiadis' immunity and to close this issue, because it was a sad and difficult time for the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u172	On staff, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u173	First of all, Mrs Bakoyannis, I would like to clarify why you too may not have heard that the President did not express her personal opinion and wish, but the unanimous position of all the parties involved in the Bureau. Now, because there is every time a shift in relation to what representation is sufficiently representative to be regarded as democratic, where the plenary was held, as democratically enforced and as, unfortunately, in many other cases that were imposed or claimed. It has asked for the floor and we are closing with Mr Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u174	The staff, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Mitsotakis, you have exhausted your positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u176	No, I didn't exhaust them at all, Madam President. You won't judge...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u177	I think you're not wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u178	You won't judge when a staff runs out, let alone when you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u179	Mr Mitsotakis, you are wrong as well as your right-wing colleague and second-hand parliamentary representative, because you have turned the procedure into your own staff, and they are more his own staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u180	Madam President, I am sorry, but when you're lying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u181	Would you like your colleague, Mr Athanasios, or would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u182	No, I don't want him to lead. I'll precede to explain where the staff took place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u183	The Bureau considers that there is no staff. Still...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u184	I blame you for lying, Madam President, and you say there is no staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u185	...I'll give you the floor for a minute to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u186	Good. I'll explain it right away. Madam President, you put the issue on the agenda of the election of the President of the Republic last Monday, without having consulted anyone about this decision. You mentioned in the debate that you had informed the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy - that is me - of this intention of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u187	And the parliamentary representatives of all parties, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u188	Who, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u189	So let me freshen your memory. I understand that under pressure from the debate you may not remember the facts. So let me remind you, Madam President. So you wrote on Monday on the agenda...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u190	Is that the staff? An objection to the presidential election procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u191	No, the objection lies in the fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u192	Do you object to the presidential election procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u193	Why do you not want to hear them, Madam President? Let me remind you, Madam President. It's about the fact that you're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u194	Mr Mitsotakis, because you were absent in the proceedings, would you like to put a question of the validity of the presidential election?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u195	You either lie or you don't remember well, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u196	And you do it as a parliamentary representative? In the election process you were absent. You have not raised a question of validity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u197	You gave me the floor, Madam President. I would therefore inform the House that on Tuesday I sought you to express my protest and my party that you entered on the agenda 'Election of the President of the Republic' without having announced the name. So that's what happened retrospectively. I would therefore ask you to correct your claim that you have informed the parliamentary representatives. I'm sure you hadn't told me. I do not know whether the parliamentary representatives of the other parties had been informed. I doubt that, of course, because I asked them. Recognise that you have made a point, that is, that you should put on the agenda for the election of the President without having announced the name and obviously not allowing Members to consult with their groups on a top issue in Parliament. I would therefore ask you to withdraw what you have said and I would also ask the other parliamentary representatives to say whether there was any information from you on the agenda for this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u198	Mr Mitsotakis, because you raise matters of order and honesty, I must also inform the House of our conversation. You have informed me that you are looking for me because the name of the President of the Republic had not been announced. I have told you that I do not know which name will be announced or informed and you have expressed your opinion that if Mr Avramopoulos' name is announced, you have no problem, but if another name is announced, you will have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u199	I mentioned one example, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u200	If you would like, then, transparent and honest procedures, we can sincerely formulate here and inform the Greek people about what is being spent. This type of mistrust in this Parliamentary period and plenary will not get used to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u201	Don't talk about cases. Especially today, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u202	Mr Athanasios has the floor and we will be closing with the Minister of the Interior, Mr Voutsi. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the point of view each of us has on the prosecutor's order - because it is an order, it is not a decision - I would just like to refer to the legal issue. If the President were to give me the floor before the interruption, we'd be done in a minute. What I'm going to say has nothing to do with these prisoners. Madam President, the body and the conditions under which the authorisation is granted are clearly and restrictively defined by the Penal Code, namely by a law passed by the Greek Parliament and in force. And there is also a secondary institution where the person concerned can use certain conditions at all times and is no longer the prosecutor supervising the prison, but the Security Council where this could be done. As far as'sufficient' is concerned,'sufficiently' gives a direction to the person who is responsible for adopting a decision or provision. Do not forget that our Constitution, even in criminal and political decisions, has an explicit provision that states that the rulings of the courts must be fully and sufficiently substantiated. It is therefore not the question of who decides whether a provision is sufficiently or fully justified. They only judge her as judiciary. It cannot be judged by the legislator. The legislator, that is to say, all we can do is change the Penitentiary Code and say on what conditions and what instrument it will decide to allow a Member of Parliament to enter to vote. It would therefore be unmanageable if an institution but an administrative body of the House, such as the Conference of Presidents, decides to judge a judgement of a judiciary. Otherwise, Mr. Venizelos said so. The discrimination of powers and the rule of law is violated. I therefore think that the Conference of Presidents can discuss and re-examine the combined provisions - if I remember correctly, they are Articles 54 and 57 of the Penitentiary Code - which, interpreting as a whole, give this conclusion to you. The Conference of Presidents cannot, therefore, abolish the order, but only the House by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u204	Have you been to Nikos Mihaloliakos, party leader?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u205	Please, my colleague. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that has been raised today and which concerns us and has been debated is a major one, because it has dimensions which we may not be able to exhaust today in the debate and the government, of course, could not take a stand on this matter with me. It is a major one, because we will shortly have the trial of the detainees of the Golden Dawn leadership, and this trial will have to be done - we are all in agreement with it - with the principles of the rule of law and without political charges that will give another signal to an unprecedented procedure, because we have all accepted from the previous House that this case is a sui generis, one could say, a party that is at the same time in this House and within three successive popular votes has been voted on and legitimised, and at the same time it has been denounced - and the file has been formed - as a quasi-criminal organisation. This is a very special issue, which for the first time appeared in the House. In the previous phase, at least for at least one and a half years, we have been called upon to deal with a number of difficult issues, which had no case-law, relating to the funding, the presence of Members here, the privileges and so on. - very difficult issues - to take decisions which may have been less or more illogical or correct, but which were and have shaped a balance or, in any case, a confrontation which is in public space and which has its own elements and characteristics. For example, all the Members of the Golden Dawn participated in the election of the new President of the Republic for the next five years. At the same time - and without, of course, perfecting anything - they are confiscated, with the existence and present presumption of innocence, as it is for everyone, but also the grim evidence. So these are not matters which can be solved either by screaming or by obsessing, but by observing exactly the Constitution, the law. So I come to say that the previous parliament has suffered from the misuse - which the government has given her, regardless of this issue. The President himself had suffered - I say this directly - from the way that the previous government used or wanted to use Parliament at critical times, in its operation, in its procedures, in its open dialogue, such as acts of legislation and other things, which were judged by the people, because it was an element of public controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u207	Did the people judge the functioning of the House or your lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u208	Mrs. Vulture, please, let me continue. We are therefore being tried and criticized, and we are all - and the new majority and all - in the new circumstances in this House, in order to improve, upgrade, rebuild democracy, the Parliament itself. I am sure that the present President and her contribution will be decisive in such a process for the House itself. In this sense, the sensitivity shown by the Bureau to highlight this issue is noted on our part as an element of such a remedial effort within the Chamber of the quality that Parliament needs. Of course, the government does not understand - nor was it obviously asked - anyone to intervene or dictate an opinion to the competent prosecutor, who is responsible for this matter, and he or his substitute - or I do not know exactly who Mr or Mrs has thought otherwise in various circumstances. We do not think - and I repeat - of intervening or dictating. This very debate here, which is also recorded in the Minutes and in the public space, obviously gives rise to both legislative and executive power, but also to the judicial authority to think, to behave, on the basis of the common sense, of common sense. So, if I may say so, if the procedure goes on and that it is true, because it had emerged in the Conference of Presidents and in the House, at some point, in the face of - and I repeat - the developments that will be taking place in the judiciary and not just this and other issues which are very well open to debate together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u209	The speaker's cycle is completed. Given that the time is already 21: 20, the issue of postponement was raised about 19: 20 and now enough time has passed, I will present my proposal as President in order for Parliament to vote on how to proceed. I propose that the House record that all three institutional functions of the society should be independent and continue to be independent. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] In the same way that Parliament cannot dictate its work to justice and I would add, of course, not to interfere with its work, which I have not heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u210	Madam President, the Constitution says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u211	...in the same way, the majority of the House cannot be changed by intervention of justice. Because when we have votes at the moment, the decision on who will be present is an essential decision affecting the majority. In other words, with six absent Members, the majority is smaller.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u212	Madam President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u213	I therefore propose that this House should record this need to safeguard the separation of powers and the protection of the parliamentary function of the constitution and move on to the process tonight in order to complete it within the intended period. Those who agree with the proposal are invited to rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, I request the floor under Rule 67.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u215	We don't agree. It should be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u216	Those who agree with the proposal are invited to rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u217	According to Article 67...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u218	Under Rule 67, Mr Venizelos, you are making a written proposal from two Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u219	Read the Rules of Procedure. The presidents of the parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u220	In the voting process, no one intervenes in order to cut it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u221	There is no voting procedure. My objection concerns the vote in itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u222	The vote on the motions for resolutions has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u223	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u224	Are you going to say that you agree with the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u225	Don't make cheap humor. I ask the floor under Rule 67, because you are violating the Rules of Procedure by the handling of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u226	Mr Venizelos, you are breaking the voting procedure, which has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u227	I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u228	You have the floor. After you've been late for so long, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u229	Don't be ironic! Don't be inappropriate! Don't be arrogant! Be aware that you are carrying out the duties of the President of the Parliament and of gaining the restraint that this role requires. The vote, as you put it, violates the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, because you are voting on the violation of the powers' discrimination. You're saying that, depending on how he judges by his order, if he gives permission to leave a temporary prisoner, he becomes a regulator of the regime. You also say that if the prosecutor does not give permission, we do not have a legal constitution of the House. In other words, from all the debate that has taken place, from the intervention of the Parliamentary Representative of the majority party - which has deplored you - you have come to the conclusion that you must put your initial, unconstitutional view to the vote. Where does the Rules of Procedure provide for such a vote to be taken?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u230	In Article 71, Mr. Venizelo. Open it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u231	What article?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u232	Article 71.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u233	Read the article 71. What does Article 71 say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u234	After all the parties' representatives were placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u235	You're not going to invoke me for any nonexistent provisions. You take the Rules of Procedure of the House and read the 'Sindon' provisions, notarily. To read what provision you are invoking. None. Because you are violating both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and the parliamentary order. Your party disapproved you. You've been denounced by all parties except Golden Dawn. And insist unscrupulous and persistent. You are a parliamentary coup.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u236	Hey, no, Mr. Venziello! Lower the tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u237	Yes, yes, gentlemen, don't laugh! Don't laugh! For a short time, democracy and parliamentaryism are scarcely squandered. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Furthermore, Madam President, with so much sensitivity to respecting the Constitution, as well as to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, when will the Government bring to Parliament the memorandum to vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u238	Mr. Venizelos, you've lost count and control! Don't you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u239	The German Parliament votes on Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u240	This House will not vote, Mr Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u241	When will the Greek Parliament discuss and when will it vote on the extension of the memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u242	This House will not vote for an extension of the memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u243	Oh, yeah? He won't vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u244	Don't fight!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u245	...and we won't have an extension of the loan contract...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u246	This House will not vote for an extension of the memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u247	... and how will the European Central Bank decide to restore the smooth relationship with the Greek banks?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u248	You're done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u249	You will not spare the truth, the debate, the vote. Here is the real issue: The real issue is the violation of the Constitution in the extension of the memorandum and the loan contract. Fear your MPs and fear the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u250	The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Representative have requested the floor. I would like to inform you whether there is another parliamentary representative calling for the floor, let him do so now, because the procedure will be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u251	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u253	I am going to reason, if we can find a way, because the game started again: 'Custom' one, 'No, you did more' and so on. The views of all the parties have been recorded on this subject, the general issue. As the Minister said, there should be an organised debate on these issues in the House, which is prepared. We agree and we have put it. At the moment there is no point in putting in place what the House decides or what the House says about justice and all the rest that you have said. We move forward directly to the debate, and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u254	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u255	Bravo! The Court ruled as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u256	... since we commit that in another year and more organized, there will be a general debate to place everyone. It's common sense. I appeal at least to move on. It's 21.30'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Nikos Friends, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u258	I'll agree with Mr. Paphie. Indeed, common sense says that we shall proceed to the vote. The points made by all the wings, even in some aspects of the New Democracy, are clear. We need to discuss a few issues that concern issues that have been dealt with today in this House. It is certain that the sensitivity you have shown, Madam President, to raising this issue today, is being tabled and I think it will help us have this debate with greater restraint and less passion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Friend. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn has asked for the floor. Mr Theocharis, Mr Nicholas and Mr Mitsotakis have then asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Madam President. Many sensations see about the Constitution. But when the Chief of Golden Dawn and five MPs were arrested, without any immunity, no one had spoken. And the justification that the felony was a permanent, self-sacrificing felony is not true, because then the whole parliamentary group should have been arrested, which you did not do. Because after you understood the disgrace that had been done, you then proceeded to the immunity of the other Members for the same crimes, to see the theater of the absurdity, of which it was played within the Greek Parliament and we do not know how long it will continue. I repeat, you all know, even if you hate us, that we are right and that all this judiciary against the Golden Dawn is pure politics and nothing else. That is why the Greek people for a fourth continuous election campaign put us in the Greek Parliament and has put us in the third place, while others, our persecutors, constantly devours them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u261	Mr Theocharis, the party's parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u262	Madam President, thank you. For the sake of the next year's economy, we will also agree with Mr Pafile's proposal. I think we've discussed. We all agree. We have talked a lot about this. Let us move on to the main topic of the debate which is afflicting Mr Georgiadis, to finish at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u263	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u264	I agree with Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u265	You don't want the floor. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u266	Madam President, since the first place, we all want to proceed to the vote. However, the Bureau's decision - if I am not mistaken - and not the President, you have all taken it unanimously. I don't know what's changed. Are they counted? They were gone? Did they need to? I don't know. I'm entitled to think about it, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u267	All Vice-Presidents of the House are present and in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u268	They're big kids. They can't talk. So, here today, when listening to Mr Venizelos, we have not only seen what 'the great grief of grief' gives rise to', we have not just seen that two of our chosen colleagues, two brothers and sisters, here, found their next President, but that is where a major issue of democracy was emerged. [[Noise in the Chamber]] A number of interesting things have been heard, different approaches and yet what you have reiterated once again in your latest briefing to this House is, indeed, essential. It's a question of democracy. Indeed, a district attorney may say: “If you did another job, I might have allowed you to go to work. The fact that you are a Member of Parliament and you must do your duty only for that reason, because I do not think it is a profession, you will not be in Parliament." Let's move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. That concludes the debate without delay. I hope there is no further intervention. I would just remind you that my proposal before the previous interruption was to move forward, pointing out the issue that was raised, which has been raised by Parliament for two hours. In the process that we will follow, I would first like to inform the House that we have been sent from Saturday to all the groups in Parliament, the criminal lawsuit, which has been forwarded to us for my colleague, Mr Georgiadis, and the minutes and reports of the committee of the previous period. I would like to point out that this is a case-file, which has remained without a plenary decision in the previous parliamentary term, and as a result this week, the deadline for Parliament to give its opinion must be set and, in order not to have limitations and other procedures which have unfortunately been established in the past, urgently to be determined. Mr Georgiadis has been informed at the outset and before the agenda was issued by the Member, Mr Georgiadis, and all the documents have been sent to all the groups. If anyone has any objections or doubts, I hope she will say it now and not at any other time. In relation to the procedure, I would like to inform you that there was a dilemma in relation to the procedure to be followed. This is because the committee of the previous period, including Members who no longer belong to Parliament, had submitted a report, but the procedure had not been completed. At this time it was so short that it was practically impossible for the committee responsible to set up to meet and decide by submitting a new report. So what has been chosen is to put all the data before the House, namely the minutes and the report of the previous parliamentary committee, but also to activate this Parliamentary Session in accordance with the procedure laid down, especially in the relevant Rules of Procedure, which provides for the appointment of a special speaker by the majority parliamentary group and the minority parliamentary group. It is unfortunate, of course, that the wording of the Rules of Procedure is unfortunate. So it has been chosen to send invitations to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Groups as the major parliamentary group of the Couple, the majority, and the New Democracy as a major parliamentary group in opposition. Parliament's special speakers have been appointed. Mr. Antonis Syrigos was appointed by SYRIZA and Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Syrigos, nominated by the New Democracy. So the procedure we are going to follow is that we will give the floor to the special speakers appointed by the parliamentary groups for five minutes. It will be followed that the procedure, Mr Georgiadis, will be followed for five minutes. That's obviously all with tolerance. We shall vote on a roll-call vote which I must also tell you that, although it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, voting has been followed by a roll-call vote. We shall therefore follow this voting procedure by voting, although it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but it has been followed. This procedure will be a matter of dealing with the relevant parliamentary committee for the future. I would ask Mr Antonis Syrigos, a special speaker on the side of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to abuse time and, if I can, not to escape from five minutes. As you all know, the request to waive the immunity of Mr Spyridon-Adonidos Georgiadis is being put before you today. In particular, the competent Public Prosecutor is required to waive the immunity of the Member in order to prosecute him for not issuing or otherwise incorrect publication of tax data on a continuing basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Syragos, excuse me. I would ask my fellow Members to be as firm as possible and not to be alarmed. It is a very serious procedure, the procedure for the lifting of immunity and everyone must show due respect and due seriousness, and I think that the procedure would also like to see a follow-up. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u272	In particular, it is alleged that in Athens in 2011 and 2012, as a legitimate representative of the company ‘Greek EIA’, it did not issue or otherwise issue inaccurate tax information from the above company. It is also essential - and I must not omit it - that the report of the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics which proposes that his immunity should not be waived. I'll report some details about it. Initially, the case was transmitted on 9-10-2014, but was sent back to the Minister of Justice in order to clarify whether a request for prosecution is made by the Prosecutor in accordance with Article 62.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u273	We're not listening to anything! Anyway, there are people in here who listen. Some of us want to hear!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u274	I'll try to yell harder.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u275	This disrespect is constant in here! Whoever's talking, knowing that some of us in here are here to listen! We're not here to waste our time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u276	I would ask all colleagues to be quiet. I would ask my older colleagues, with governmental experience, to demonstrate the seriousness of this process. There can be no voices and holidays since there has been an exhaustive, highly democratic process and everyone has heard it before. Now having interference and constant vocals is indeed a mistrustful and unparliamentary behaviour. Please, in the name of your previous experience, which is far-reaching - and governmental - to abstain from this anti-parliamentary behaviour and to respect the fact that the speaker is a first-electioned MEP and is in Parliament for the first time. At least that's what you have to respect. Please, Mr. Syrigos, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u277	I'll try to increase my voice so I can sound better. The Minister of Justice sent his letter on 21-10-2014, and states that the Protoform Prosecutors' Prosecutors shall request authorisation to prosecute in accordance with Article 62(1) of the Constitution. What's happened? On 24-7-2014, the Prosecutors of Athens were filed with the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Prosecutors or with an identical date of complaint against Adoni - Spyridon Georgiadis, accompanied by a balance sheet of the “Greek Education EIA” and an appeal against the company “Georgiadis Leonidas and SIA”, which is heard on 3-6-2015. In his complaint Mr Alaiadis Georgios Michael and Barbara denounced MP Mr Spyridon - Adonian Georgiadis that he allegedly declared for the financial year 2012- use of 1-1-2011 to 31-12/2012- that he had incomes from another source of EUR 32,508,08 and that according to the attached balance sheet of the company ‘Hellenic EIA’ it appears that for the years 2011-2012 he had a sales cost of EUR 73,320, 85 and 87,235 respectively. He also accounts for some of the programmes he has made for the "Greek Elevation" that they have excessive costs - you too have the complaint, do not mention them - and it is obvious that an exit so big of the company that does not appear in the balance sheets - he thought it should appear in the published balance sheet - proves that he or she does not cut or issue lower invoices to the channel that has his broadcast, or someone finances this broadcast for reasons beyond sales and, indeed, for a broadcast which he shows is purely for commercial reasons - telesale - and asks for the investigation of these transactions to be carried out. On 18-12-2014, the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics of Members of Parliament met Mr Christos Marcoyannakis, Mr Kyriakos Virvidakis, Mr Vassilis - Nikolaos Ypsilante, Mr Apostolos, Mr Christos Gokas, Mr Maria Kollias - Tsarouhas, Mr Zisimopoulos, Mr Maria Reposi, Mr Spyridos Halvatzinasinas and Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, in order to explain the allegations he made and requested that the request for waiver of his parliamentary immunity should not be accepted. I am referring to - because Mr Georgiadis's point of view is also to be mentioned and I would like to say that he does not know this man, who has, however, made three complaints to him. He also said that his company cuts invoices, that his owner is unknown and is chasing him for the purposes of publicity on Mr Triantafylopoulos's show, that he thinks he is an instrument of Jews and such a thing, and that he also ends by saying that what he says is not valid, that everything is submitted, that the balances are published, that his tax statement is audited by the tax office, and his companies here have accepted tax controls around seven years and that he ends up saying "they are not." As far as the complainant's motives are concerned, Mr Georgiadis said, firstly, that there is no dispute - I say them abstractly to make it easier - there was a television broadcast from Mr Triantafylopoulos to 'ZUGLA', when Mr Taz wanted to be an independent candidate in Attica. It goes on to say that it did so for reasons of publicity in the middle of the previous election period. He had appeared as a candidate for independent regional ruler. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm just finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u278	Tolerant, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u279	I won't mention it all. He goes on to say: “I don’t know. I think it has been done more to make a fuss, to tell you the truth." In the light of the interactive debate, the Committee, with nine votes against a member, who said'represent', decided to recommend that Mr Spyridonos-Adonidos Georgiadis be refused immunity, sending her from 20-12-2014 a report to the President of the Parliament with the following reference to her decision: "The committee then accepted by a majority that, in the case in question, the public prosecutor was asked to grant a criminal prosecution order against Mr Spyridon-Adonidos Georgiadis, the case referred to in paragraph 3 of Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is the case and proposes that his immunity should not be waived." I believe that it refers to the second case, namely the one concerning his political persecution, and not the first one, which speaks of parliamentary work. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the complainant claims that the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgiadis, must be prosecuted for tax offences charged to him and that is why the public prosecutor is asking for the waiver of his immunity. And the complainant denies complaints. He claims that the complainant was against him, with the sole motive of doing doro, i.e. gaining publicity, in order to descend as a candidate for the district authority and to become known to him in pursuit of his political persecution. You will now give your opinion, taking into account the report of the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics. I'm sorry if I hurt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u280	You didn't hurt us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u281	What's the recommendation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u282	In accordance with Article 83, reference is made to the facts. I will respect what the Rules of Procedure say. He says: 'If a special speaker from a majority and a minority refer only to the events mentioned in the request for waiver of immunity'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u283	But you have to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u284	Let me do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. The reason for this is the special speaker appointed by the New Democracy, Mr Georgadas. And you, Mr. Georgioda, will have the same tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this unprecedented procedure for Parliament does indeed provide for special speakers only to refer to the facts. I shall refer to the facts, but let me give the time I think it is necessary for each Member to see what has happened here. You are - each of you could be - a law-abiding citizen, who watching a television show and doing his investigation finds allegedly tax violations and wants to denounce them. Where will he denounce them, when he even has the responsibility to denounce them by his name? I think that the first thought is to denounce them to the ILO, to the tax office, in any case to the tax authorities. There is no complaint to the tax authorities here. It's the D.A. Why is it the D.A.? The facts here illustrate the complainant's incentive at first. But there is also the substance. When this complaint is made to the prosecutor, there is the procedure you see today. There is the publicity of a matter, which certainly has a negative time for the complainant, but at the same time gives the complainant a publicity. If the complainant is a third-class party member, if he has political aspirations, which he has recognised on television, if his aim is to come out on this television show and say these ambitions, if he has at the same time made three complaints against the same Member - who has received great publicity, so any complaint against this Member would also have been very publicised - then we have started and found the incentive. Beyond the motive, of course, there's always the substance. What's he complaining about? He's denounced two things. First, that there was a television time bought without the relevant documents and within that purchased television time there were sales without the legal documents. In the case-file that has come to the hands of the committee, there is no tax control effect that proves this claim, which - we must say that - is very easily audited. We're talking about a counted TV time. The complainant was provided with the contracts with the channels for the purchase of this television time and, of course, with the relevant documents. While there is no document from anywhere from tax authorities, a complaint is made before the May 2014 elections, namely in February 2014, with the obvious aim of publicising the complainant, who is currently seeing us all. Of course, every citizen has the right to complain of any illegal act or non-legal action, and of course, when he does so, he must also be congratulated, but he must do so to the competent tax authorities as appropriate. If he fails to find a point or does not have the effect he thinks he has to find from the competent tax and audit authorities, then, yes, he will sue the prosecutor. But it is very easy for some - and I think that tomorrow each of you can have this - to choose this road, with obvious purposes. The Ethics Committee of the Parliament on 18 December 2014 at a critical moment, with votes 9 to 1, considered that the immunity of MP Adonidos Georgiadis should not be waived. I do not need to say who just said "PARTON". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Madam President. I won't get too tired of you, because we're all too tired. Things are very simple. A gentleman - unknown to me - wants to be made public. To obtain publicity, he's suing me and asking Mr. Triantafylopoulos to present him to his show. Mr. Triantafylopoulos presents him on his show and states he will be a candidate in the district of Attica, independent. He didn't come down after all. His political ambition did not go any further. Ever since I've never heard of him, I've never even known him. In fact, I'm saying only one thing: Those here doing television know that you can't take on the channels time without having a tax contract and, of course, without cutting off such invoices. This is controlled by both the tax authorities and the ERC and everyone else. These are therefore the facts. The only reason I have asked for my immunity not to be lifted is, of course, not the substance of the case, which is totally indifferent to me, but because it would be like opening up a window and anyone who would like to get publicity, sue a Member of Parliament or a Minister of State to take out the channels. In my opinion, this should not be the case, because we will open up a ferry. That and what you want to vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u289	Is there a colleague who'd like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u290	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u291	Here you go, Mr. Haikalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u292	I had no reason, Madam President, to speak, but I will take him and this time I shall fully agree with Mr Georgiadis. This is an unimportant person and the reason for the lawsuit is just to be known. I know him. It is one person - to repeat it once again - insignificant and the only reason why this act was to get public. Those who know the procedures for television know that there cannot be - as Mr Georgiadis said - procedures for television time, without any documentary evidence. It is indeed a great problem which has been done in the present process, namely dealing with such a gentleman, which, if we knew it before, would not even have been involved in the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u293	You will allow me to say, Mr Haikalis, that the House must deal with every request made by the public prosecutor and, of course, within the framework of the Constitution, each Member takes responsibility for his or her vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is seen as a complete one and I would remind you of the provisions that we shall apply to the vote that will follow. So Article 62 of the Constitution stipulates that, for the duration of the parliamentary term, the Member is not persecuted or arrested or imprisoned or otherwise restricted, without the permission of the House. He is also not persecuted for political crimes as a member of the parliament that has been broken up, from its dissolution and the proclamation of Members of the new parliament. The authorisation shall not be deemed to have been granted unless the House has taken a decision within three months after the request of the prosecutor for prosecution has been forwarded to the President of the Parliament. The three-month period shall be suspended during Parliament's holidays and no authorisation shall be required for self-declared felonies. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, applications from the Prosecutor's Prosecutor for the authorisation of prosecution against a Member of Parliament pursuant to Articles 61(2) and 62(1) of the Constitution, after being audited by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, shall be submitted to Parliament by the Minister of Justice and registered in a special book in the order of their submission. Such requests shall be referred by the President of the Parliament to the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics referred to in Article 43A. The committee, after hearing the Member for whom the waiver of immunity is sought, if he so wishes, and whom the chairman of the committee is invited to do so at least three days before his meeting, shall investigate whether the act for which this is being requested - please listen, because these are the provisions on which you will be invited to vote - in connection with the parliamentary or political activity of the Member, or the prosecution, prosecution or indictment conceals political feasibility and, otherwise, if that is not the case, recommends the waiver of immunity. The committee shall not examine the relevance of the charge against the Member and shall draw up a report within the time limit set out in the referral document of the President of Parliament. The Committee's report shall be reasoned. So there are procedures as they are defined. It defines Rule 83 another voting procedure, by lifting or raising, but the practice of the last few years of the roll-call vote has prevailed, and that is what we will do. So this is the start of the roll-call vote. The vote has been drawn up and will be distributed immediately to you under the name of the colleague for whom the waiver of immunity is sought and each of the Members who complete the vote will take note of his vote next to the name of Mr Georgiadis. He or she who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity will note his preference next to the Member's name and to the column ‘NEI’. The person who votes against the lifting of immunity will complete the 'NOI' column. Those who do not want to be placed positively or negatively will be added to the indication ‘PARTY’. The vote will give each of its colleagues its name, its constituency and the parliamentary group to which it belongs and will sign it in accordance with the procedure, which has so far been applied. Subsequently, with the wording of his name and his name each and every fellow Member will give the vote to colleagues, Mr Panagiota Dritsel by SYRIZA and Mr Christos Boukoros from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote, there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have just mentioned and we will proceed with the announcement of the result. Does this House agree with this process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u294	The House unanimously agreed. I would also like to inform you that a fax (fax) has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, which makes its vote known. This vote will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. There has been no letter of intent to vote so far. Parliamentarians Mr Olga Gerovasili are called on the list by SYRIZA and Dimitrios Kyriazides from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u295	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letter sent to the Bureau by Mr Nikolaos Hountis, pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen - the few remaining and remaining - I will tell you the result of the vote. A total of 224 Members voted on the case of Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 2 Members voted. 215 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. They voted for 7 MPs. The majority of Parliament therefore rejects Mr Georgiadis' request to waive immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u298	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been three letters from colleagues in this House. In a letter dated 11 February 2015, Mr Constantine Koukodemou asked for a short-day leave to go abroad, to Austria, for personal reasons, on the dates 19 to 23 February 2015. I think I should like to put it in this House after the time has run out. Also, a letter from 11 February 2015 from Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, as appearingly registered, states: ‘Please accept a absence from abroad for personal reasons, from 15-2-2015 to 23-2-2015’. We also have to put it in the House. And Mrs Maria Antoniou's letter of 18 February 2015: “Please give me a few days' leave to go abroad (Bulgaria), for the dates 20 to 23 February 2015.” We also have to put it in the House. I would also not ask the House, with such a modest composition, to make such a request. In general, I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure, which provides for the compulsory presence of Members at meetings and apply where there is an unjustified absence, should be applied. When, of course, this House is authorized, the absence is not considered unjustified. There is no question of this because there were no meetings at the intervals mentioned. After all, I would ask the House to give its consent so that we can resolve the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-02-24-S1-commons.u299	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 22.55 p.m.
