ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament’s 5-11-2015 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICE sessions of Thursday 5 November 2015 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law: ‘Retirement arrangements, incorporation into Greek law of Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC’, as amended by Council Directive 2013/12/EU of 13 May 2013 ‘adjusting Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, by reason of the accession of the Republic of Croatia’ and other provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The first question under number 72/311-2015 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Athens Congress of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diakrias to the Minister for Environment and Energy on Greek representation at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (COP21). Mr Dimitras' timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Georgios Diaras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u2	Minister, as you know, on 30-11-2015 until 11-12-2015, the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (COP21) will be hosted in Paris. The Conference will take place about forty thousand participants including national delegations, observers and representatives of civil society. On 23-10-2015, ninety-six countries participated in Bonn, but without the participation of the Greek delegation, the meetings and the latest conferences on climate change and the UN conference "COP21". The effects of climate change are now undeniable and visible to all natural and anthropogenic systems, continents and oceans. COP21 is a crucial conference to finalise the new greenhouse gas emissions targets to replace the targets set by the Kyoto Protocol. Among other things, each country must contribute by making its own contribution available to the public at national level (nationally selected contributions) before the conference is held. Is the Minister asking: How does he assess the country's performance in terms of achieving the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets and an EIA share in the final energy consumption in 2020? Secondly, does the government intend to take a legislative initiative for Greece to adopt more ambitious and specific objectives than those corresponding to it in the context of the recent European Union energy package for 2030? When will it make public long-term energy planning, compatible with the binding targets for 2030 and the political decision of the Heads of State for 2050?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to agree with you, Mr Metten, that the Paris Conference is a historic conference. It is one of the last attempts and they deserve congratulations to the French Government and President Olad for having given due consideration to a diplomatic level so that a legally binding agreement can finally be reached. Of course, estimates say that 'legal' on a transnational level raises a little 'water'. I do not know how we will do it, but let us hope that we will go well in Paris and do not have the repetition, for example, of Copenhagen. A legally binding agreement is binding, because otherwise there will be the most affected countries - and Greece is one of the countries most affected, like others - and not necessarily those which produce the problem. Pollution knows no borders and in this sense it is clear that in countries which currently have island status, such as Greece, the impact will be dramatic. For example, the Bank of Greece's report on adjustment states that by 2100, if we do not take measures, the optimistic scenario is to have 700 billion dollars, i.e. twice the country's public debt, and if we take measures, in the most optimistic scenario, that is if we get legally binding agreements, the cost will be 400 billion, again a scary amount that goes beyond the country's public debt. So we can't be quiet. Beyond Paris - and I am pleased that the question happens to be discussed immediately after yesterday's vote on energy savings - in Greece right now has two sides. One aspect is the optimism. I will table for the Minutes the position of Greece, on the basis of the objectives, which we are rather from the privileged and strict countries, we are ahead. We've already achieved a 15% reduction. On the other hand, however, we obviously need rationalisation. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would not say, therefore, that what is needed by the Greek Government is to take legislative initiatives for more stringent commitments and to commit ourselves to the other countries that are not committed. Let me remind you that our lignite cost EUR 60/MWh, while Bulgaria costs 42, because it does not pay Kyoto, and we cannot be uncompetitive. But we have a splendid splendid splendid splendid field - I will not tire of protology, because I will expand more to my denture - in respect of rehab from oil. And I say the rehab of oil in terms of energy production, because if we get out of oil, which costs EUR 100-200/MWh, the average price of consumption is automatically dropping and money is kept for investment in the RES.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I really would like to know what the evolution of objectives in our country is in relation to 2020. So now how exactly are we in relation to 1990, which was the target of a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions? And how do you estimate it will eventually be until 2030 and 2050 with the measures we take? However, opposing acts have taken place here in our country. We saw that a contract was signed for a new lignite plant in Kosani. How can we achieve objectives - and we should also be more ambitious in this country where we have conditions for the development of renewable energy sources - when we are planning new lignite plants, but also when we know in that country that the rail network - which is a matter of savings - in relation to road development is really in a late state? So I think that as a country, yes, we have achieved some goals, but we are far from the desired goal. Also, there are complaints that too many applications for small-scale wind turbines do not go any further. What about this area? Indeed, with the law that we passed yesterday, we also have commitments for buildings and other commitments. We need to see more specific things about how we implement these objectives, not to stick to the laws and papers, but to become a Greek reality that will adapt to the great needs of the global climate protection needs, which we know the tragic consequences of this development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u7	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I would agree with you that Greece - as I said before, and I will expand a little more thoroughly now - is presenting a contradictory picture. On the one hand we have this 15% reduction with 2013 figures. It's a very good reduction. We are very ahead of other countries of the European Union. And I remind you that the European Union aims to penetrate RES by 2020, while the binding directive says 18%. We are at 13% to 15%, with intense upward trends. So there is no question of us catching the targets. We'll get them and we'll get over them a lot. The contradiction lies not in the installed power, but precisely in what I said, in the energy consumed. And explain what I mean. Greece today needs a daily of 6MW with 7MW and a peak of 9 MW. It has installed power over 18GW and it has installed power in RES, 4.5 GW and hydroelectric power - with large hydroelectric power plants that existed -3GW, which do not bear the greenhouse effect. So we can say that in theory we could only do with our hydroelectric power and installed power in an RES to cover the country's needs in place. But things are not like that when we look at energy consumed. Because in practice at the moment, while we have twice as much power as we are asking for, even in extreme conditions, we are importing energy and dirty energy, namely nuclear and lignite. The reason why we import energy is not because we do not have one here. The lignite plants to which you refer are essentially being subordinated. And they fail because there is no need for consumption. Where the problem is is economic. Because 10% of oil goes in, which is expensive, we have to import dirty energy to rationalise the cost. It must be put into the system of fixed gas power, from geothermality, and I fully agree with you that transport in Greece now needs to be electrified and not oiled. I would point out that while Norway - a oil-producing country - consumes around eight hundred barrels of oil per unit of GDP, we consume a thousand four hundred barrels of imported oil per unit of GDP! So this oil admission to the energy mix destroys every attempt to rationalise the system. Because oil is extremely expensive, the plants are extremely expensive and effectively prevent the penetration of the RES. It is an economic problem, which I fully agree with you that it must be solved with brave and decisive policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and three teachers from the 2nd Grade Drapetsonas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fourth question by number 76/3-11-2015 will be discussed first-round question by the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the transfer of competence of the privileges and benefits to the municipalities. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the "KALIKRATI" and the dismantling of counties, the competence of benefits and assistance has passed to the municipalities and has unfortunately been linked to central self-resources. As of 2011, this project for the municipalities passes through municipalities located in the region concerned. On this basis, the staff of the respective departments of the then prefectures also went through their responsibility. The Municipality of Athens, at this time, is pressing on the municipalities that serve to receive responsibility within short deadlines. Municipalities without the necessary personnel, without funding, support and preparation, are forced to take on a competence which should normally be exercised exclusively by the State. This is a JRC position. The Government and the relevant Ministries are responsible for putting the disabled, the beneficiaries of the benefits, the municipalities and their services in a new suffering and a confrontation between them. They are disorientating, in order to go as far as possible, to dismantle the privileges and privileges that the government has initiated and signed with the European Union. In fact, in view of the modernization of the system and the unhappiness of the disabled in certification centres, the Government, under Law No.4331 in June 2015, put forward measures to modernise the system of cuts. State benefits for the additional needs of the disabled are dissociated from the disability itself. They're connected to assets and to whether or not he has a family to help him. Municipalities in the next period with the responsibilities assigned to them will become the first expanded slaughterhouse of pre-school aid, disability benefits. We say the target is the cracking of the prose aids. Already there is the commitment to a reduction in total welfare from 1.8 billion in 2015 to just 900 million, as stated in the third memorandum. We are asking, Minister, whether the government will support the services of the municipalities with the necessary staff so that they can actually cope with this new and crucial responsibility and not find any more MEDAs and beneficiaries in the face of a new suffering. We ask, if the government is thinking of disconnecting the innovative aid from the central self-resources, which are not all attributed to the municipalities today and the amount of their funding is not sufficient even to the elementary costs and functions of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Kourublis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my dear colleague, first of all, for showing understanding of my request six to seven days ago for alleviating and thanking him, as well, because I very much appreciate his interest and sensitivity to a very critical issue of our social policy, which concerns a hundred and sixty-eight thousand disabled persons over 67%. Indeed, the process of transferring allowances to the municipalities had caused several problems because the municipalities of the counties had to take this responsibility. There has so far been no negative reaction from the municipalities. There is a very good level of understanding and cooperation. We, too, realise the needs arising from such a burden on the municipalities and we are in a process of meeting these kinds of needs. Therefore, Mr President, this is an issue between the Ministry of the Interior and the CEDEFOP, which we are discussing and I must reassure and reassure my dear fellow Member that in the recruitment we are trying at this time, taking into account the gaps, we will take this kind of needs into account in local government very seriously. I will then supplement my dentistry and refer to the concern of my dear colleague for the abolition of allowances.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Mr Katsotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u14	Minister, it's not our concern. It's specific. Here are continually curtailed aids and privileges. I told you before that the commitment in the third memorandum is from 1.8 billion to 900 million. This is a commitment. Who will suffer the consequences of these cuts, if not those who have had these aids so far and have in any case been able to survive in these difficult circumstances? And let us not forget that people with disabilities, disabled people, have suffered too many, significant cuts, and not only in allowances but even in pensions for disabled people. Because all this reform, supposedly, of the Disabled Certification Centre, is supposed to have worked as a tool to cut pensions, the disability rate, so that they could stay apart from all the help that the State had to provide as a whole. Minister, we said that this should normally belong to the state, to the central government, with the responsibility of being able to give the pre-emptive aid to all those who deserve it. So you have given these powers to the municipalities, and as I said before, there may have been good cooperation, but now the Municipality of Athens gives them to the other municipalities, who do not have such infrastructure that they can actually meet the task assigned to them, so that there is this confrontation between the beneficiaries and the municipalities, that the municipalities say "it is not our fault, it is the Municipality of Athens' fault", the Municipality of Athens is to say "it is not our fault, it is the government that has given us that has given us this responsibility" and the disabled person who will ultimately suffer the consequences of this change of law. You connect it to the central self-resources. After all, these CFPs are very few for the municipalities. They have been considerably reduced in recent years. And now connect it, because through it it will be given, that is, the amount will be from the central resources, without it increasing. So the municipalities reduce from central resources the costs they could make for other projects or other activity of the municipalities for the citizens. So this is where the municipalities have a total obligation to support disabled people with these aids, which are already at very low levels. In any case, Mr Minister, we would like to see what you are planning and how they will support the municipalities in this effort or if you are thinking of reintroducing this activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr Kurublé, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, as far as local government is concerned, the problems that the honourable Member really has to deal with are the same as those which the current government does not bear, as you can see. The current government at the end of the year, even though it manages a budget it has received from another government, will take away all the margins. At the moment, Mr President, in November we tabled to local government EUR 400 million. Today that we are discussing the local government funds 235 million, on the 24th of the month another EUR 164 million will be entered and at the end of the year we will try to fulfil our obligations towards local government, which is really doing a great deal of work, particularly in supporting the social state with the social structures it develops. Because we really believe in decentralisation rather than over-concentration, Mr President, we are preparing a re-establishment of the 'Kalikaratis', with a view to clarifying responsibilities. Already the bill tabled by Mr Voutsis as Minister of the Interior is re-issued - in which important areas are really important - but we will also try to reconstitute the whole of 'Kalikarati', trying in every way not only to transfer responsibilities, as has been done so far but also the necessary resources. Because we believe in a decentralised state, where the ability of the citizen to play a role through direct-democratic processes will be a living day-to-day function, because that is how you can make people a citizen and not a national passive, recipient of regulation of his fate by others. Such an institutional revolution, such an institutional overthrow, we will attempt, precisely because we want the citizen to be a protagonist and not a spectator of developments. Now, as far as the benefits of the disabled are concerned, Mr President, I honestly understand your anxiety and your concern, but we must avoid overreacting. What's he going to say "done"? This government, although it has been in this hurricane of the crisis to take over the country's governance, despite the fact that we have experienced the consequences of the closure of the banks not one day delayed the payment of the disability benefits. Therefore, there is no question of payment of allowances and delays and it is not going to happen, Mr President. Today I am speaking to you, the money has normally been deposited once again, and this is not the case. You also talked about cutbacks. Has this government made any cuts? Nor EUR 1, because we understand that the allowances of sixty-eight thousand disabled people are allowances that cover, Mr Colleague, and I agree with you - the needs of disability. And this government is well aware of that. He knows it and he supports it in every way. Therefore, any claim from anywhere to connect benefits to economic criteria and so on cannot be accepted by this government. We support people with disabilities, because we want the citizen, and in this area, really feel the need for equalisation, the need for an anthropocent state that emits his interest in this matter rather than on the ground. After that, I would like to assure you in every concise way that reductions in the rights of the disabled with the current government cannot be accepted today nor tomorrow. We therefore once again confirm that we do not want to express social sensitivity. It is a social obligation for the state to form a social state that serves cohesion and real development, because when the citizen feels that there is a state that cares about him in any part of the country, he is an active citizen who cares about the public, cares about society itself, cares about the progress of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. Next is the second with number 80/3-11-2015, a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Finance, on the management of the Lagard list case. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Tree Alexiadis, will answer. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u18	Minister, it is really interesting to see what is going on in relation to the Lagard list, not only because it is a matter that it sells but because it is a matter of substance, as you can see. Because I have been in many panels and in the public debate - which unfortunately often runs out on these panels - I hear many of my interlocutors, MPs and executives on the SYRIZA side, talking about the millions that go in with the first and second left government, I am curious - not only me but the public - to learn the results. You can understand that I especially - because I see my colleague, Mr Kontonis, who was together on the Lagard list for nine months - have a full picture of both the list of members and the people and the 4.5 billion who are moving in there. And because, as you can see, there is no possibility of me getting in settling or discussing this kind of thing, as repeated topical questions have also been addressed to the Government of New Democracy - three-party and two-party - and now in the new two-party - SYRIZA - ANEL - I do the opening, I demand, I ask, and I want to know how many people are in control, who they are, what the control has done and what has been collected. The performance of previous governments, of course, and they do not satisfy me at least. In other words, if two hundred and fifty eight files were examined in 2013 and the audit was completed in three, this is not an audit. If a little improved in 2014, and in a hundred forty-three surveys completed ninety-five, it is still not results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And if in 2015, as the press writes - but I expect your official placement and I conclude - the checks are eighty and 30-eight, you understand that in 2015 is the most critical year, because the 1st -1-2016 finds too many of these two hundred sixty-two cases on the Lagard list to have their tax ambiguousness, to say so popular, to understand the world that's watching us and you're sure we're being watched. Since Mr Kontonis has returned, my colleague with whom we were together in the Committee of Inquiry for almost nine months, I think it is a great deal of interest to know how and who will eventually come to the Treasury, especially at a time when they are looking for the Government the equivalents and the debate on equivalents prevails hypocritically or essentially, depending on who is doing it and how he does it, and if he has the guarantees to do so. I wonder whether your word - not your personal word, but the government - on combating tax evasion, black money and all this grey and dark curiosity of the economy and the development of our country has results, has bold moves. I expect we can hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u19	Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u20	It is certainly a very serious matter that you come up with the timely question. There really needs to be a real dialogue on both the subject of the Lagard list and the rest of the lists that exist in the drawers and closets of the Ministry of Finance and for which no one can be proud of their control course. In relation to the information you said, as you know, I put it in the House since 6 October in the programming statements where I submitted in the minutes the relevant table and is also on the website of the Ministry of Finance at www.minfin.gr from 6-10-2015 the data from the table you read. So we have nothing to hide. We introduced the subject and did so because unfortunately in the Lagard list, if we let it continue as it started since it started, on 31-12-2015, we would have omitted. And as you know very well, we took the political cost and brought with the consent of other sides of the House a decree, so it will not be dropped 31-12-2015 and the case will be transferred to control throughout 2016. I'm sure the results are not what they should be. There have been great responsibilities since 2010 when the case came to Greece until today. As far as your question about who is on the Lagard list is concerned, as you know, there is tax confidentiality and we do not have the possibility as far as this provision is concerned. My personal view is that we must at some point in the Greek society open up the issue of tax confidentiality and discuss it. But when that time comes and we are discussing it, those views will be tabled. We can't tell anyone who's on the Lagard list. With regard to how many checks have been carried out, there is a press release on 6 October and I will present it today in the Minutes for there to be an official document. As far as the amount is concerned, what has been established so far - because in number two your question is in general, I imagine you mean the Lagard list - that we are generally collected from large tax evasion cases, is in the figures that the Ministry of Finance makes every month. In the Lagard list the revenues that have so far been established are up or around 120 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u21	For 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u22	Altogether. A total of around EUR 120 million is the amounts that have been established. Overall for the Lagard list case as well as for the other lists, because the time limit has been too short since the question was asked, we will collect all these data and bring them to the House so that there is a full briefing of Parliament about what has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Mr. Economou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u24	Attention, Minister, does not begin the political life of the country and the issues with our presence in the Ministries or when we take a public position. The issue was not raised on the 6th of October that you brought it. I'm sorry to tell you, but you don't have this first. There was Nikoloudis before you, who was also an economic prosecutor, was placed Minister to deal with corruption by the "first-time governance of the Left", who was bad - badly evicted. Mr. Tsipras has to explain why Mr. Nikoloudis left. What was the problem? The problem was with Nikoloudis because he was slowing down checks or was the problem that he did not do the checks he had to carry out according to the government? So we need to see who was in trouble. Tsipras would have a problem, or Nicoludis would have a problem. However, both clean or both cannot be well. I'm telling you it didn't start with you guys. You were much later, in subsequent episodes. He started with Mavraanis when I asked him here in the House why he does not manage the ILO to start checks quickly and effectively and even do with the AACC the recruitments to the ILO. We went to the discussions with Nikoloudis, who until he took over Minister and SYRIZA, as a small wing of this House, said - and very well he said - that every delay is suspicious and dangerous to lose the money of the illegal for the Greek State. Because not everyone is illegal and, of course, 4.5 billion is not black money. But if there is black money in there, then the illegal people have to pay. And then SYRIZA said about purposes, about suspicious political behaviour of the government at that time, and the public really could say that, to look carefully at what the one wing says, which denounces many things and things. I will not come to say that Nikoloudis confessed here in the House before you that it is actually difficult. He did, however, when he became Minister, not when he was an economic prosecutor or a representative of SYRIZA. He said that this is a problem and it is due to the structure of the Greek state. It depends on the functioning of the public services whether the control can or cannot deliver. I will not say to him that he is a wicked stateman, who, depending on his role, takes another position - no. I won't say he's hiding interests from behind. I will say that there are too many problems. And there really are problems. However, you tell us today on the occasion of this timely question whether there are any problems. Why do you say 120 million euros, but you don't say how much the Left has gathered, how much has the Left, the Left Government. Let us not have a debate now. But let us say that it is a government, which defines itself as a left. As of January 2015, we arrived in November 2015. It's an 11 months old. It's been a long time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The EUR 120 million, of course, were not established in 2015. I told you there were checks in both 2013 and 2014. For me, they weren't enough. The results are bad. But let's see what your results are. Because when I'm in the panels, what should I do? I am being called - I keep hearing SYRIZA's colleagues saying: "The Lagard list and the Lagard list." They don't know or they don't understand. We have the Liechtenstein list or the offshore list etc., but the train, the modal is the Lagard List. This is what colleagues use and they talk about hundreds of millions of euros. You said 120 million euros. I know and agree and understand that there is tax confidentiality. But say how many cases we have. You say: 'We have a press release'. This debate is being broadcast here today. Today this debate is being recorded. Today in your first place you haven't said anything. Say something, no: 'I refer you to the press release'. You are not an emperor to refer. You're here to answer. You're going to give a reason. If you don't tell how many cases, how many amounts were confirmed and what was collected... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Watch out. And I'm ending up with this. What can we do? Can we come over here and talk with press releases? I'm making press releases, too. Let me refer you to my press releases, too. They don't have that kind of conversation in the House. In the House we say live what we have to say. And so far, unfortunately, I haven't heard anything. Tell us some figures, some results, because the EUR 120 million at 4.5 billion is 2% - 3% control. It's tragic to control, and you're going to charge him. Because the previous ones have also been charged with one of the issues that have been charged - and if they have been charged, I do not know - that is what it is, but your own charge is now starting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u25	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u26	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u28	I will not waste any time answering Mr. Economou's personal reports and suggestions. I've been patient to get retarded to the Hall to start the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u29	Okay, don't tell us you were patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u30	I waited for him to make use of his time, not in personal attacks and reports, but to give us the understanding of what I have repeatedly submitted to this House as a question for me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u31	Excuse me, did I make a personal reference to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u32	Yeah, twice. Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u33	I didn't do to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u34	Look at the Minutes and you'll understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u35	This isn't the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u37	So, with regard to what I have said several times in the House, is that for 2010, 2011 and 2012 there is a question that is mistaken in Parliament and in society: Where was the list of Lagard in 2010, 2011 and 2012? And those who today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u38	Don't do that! We've been doing an exam.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u39	Calm down, Mr. Economou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Economou, please don't comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u41	And with regard to the control course of the Lagard list, if the SYRIZA Government did not bring the provision for an extension of the limitation - did not propose it by any other party or parliamentarian - would the list be dropped today or not? As far as your questions are concerned, in particular - I said them before - in the programme statements on 6 October I submitted a table to the House on what is going on with the Lagard list, which was published in a press release. We have nothing to hide in the Treasury. We said that in 2015 the checks did not go as they should be. So I do not understand why the report and why you involve Mr Nicoludis or other situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u42	We've got November!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u43	Of course we have November. And we have been responsible for what we have done since February, together with everything else to date in the Ministry of Finance and we will apologise for that responsibility, but once again listen to what has happened in that country forty years in terms of taxation and tax evasion and smuggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u44	It's been this long since.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Economou, I understand you don't want me to listen, but I'll be heard. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u46	What can you say? You have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u47	So, as far as the issue of lists and all cases of tax evasion is concerned, there is now an operational plan, there are planned actions that we are doing, we have results and we will not stop before anything to get these issues aside. Details of the timely question you submitted could not be collected in two days. We'll bring you detailed information about what has been done per year, what has been established, where we are, etc. The next time we send them to you by letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u48	I'll come back. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u49	You don't have to come back, not waste time on it. As far as the substance of the Lagard list is concerned, however, you know that two thousand and sixty-two names will not be checked, the names that have some control interest will be checked. I think it's about six hundred if my memory doesn't cheat on me. But these facts will come. This evidence will all be checked. The 4.5 billion you've said are publications. They do not actually respond, because in the Lagard list we even control cases that are zero the rest, because on that particular day it was zero, but the previous day there was a move on those accounts. So you don't have any agony and that and the other lists go out properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u50	Ask Mr. Contonis. Mr. Contonis will testify to you at 4.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Alexiadis. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the competent ministers and the following topical questions will be deleted: The third with number 70/2-11-2015 an up-to-date question for the first cycle of the MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASO.K. - P.M.A. Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the management of mixed migratory flows and the sixth under number 68/2-11-2015, topical question for the first cycle of MP, Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the re-uptake of two hundred eighty people in the stable Transport "STA.SY. SA, as well as the first with number 75/3-11-2015 topical question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the need for an immediate removal of the R/C-O/G vessel "Mytilini" from the port of Charlotte Samos. The seventh question, number 71/2-11-2015, is a top-level question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on national foreign policy and the Journalist Mediation, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. We move on to the fifth under No 69/2-11-21015 for a top-level question by Attica, Mr. George Mavrotas, Minister for Culture and Sport, on sport discrimination in the European Games in Baku, Azerbaijan and the subsequent benefits for the athletes who participated. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Kontonis. Mr. Black, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you know, 12 to 28 June 2015, the first European Games were held in Baku, Azerbaijan, a new institution, which is essentially a small Olympiad for European countries, something similar to the Americans and the Pan-Asian. The event involved about six thousand athletes from fifty countries and twenty sports. Greece participated actively with a hundred and thirty athletes and even brought successes: a gold, four silver and two copper medals. Several European federations, therefore, combined these first European Games with Pan-European Championships, and so while they were named - the umbrella - 'European Games', in fact for these sports, were essentially the respective pan-European games of categories, namely those mentioned in the n. 4115/2013 in Article 38(2) on incentives for athletes - pupils. For example, the European Pollution Federation, LEN, decided in Baku's struggles to become the respective Pan-European Adolescents' and Youth Championships, which is also documented by the correspondence it has with the respective Greek Federation, which you also have in mind. With the narrow grammar interpretation, therefore, the European Games may not be subject to v. 4115/2013, such as the Olympic Games, the Mediterranean Games and the Youth Olympics - after all, this is the first time that they have been organised - but in fact, as is at least documented by correspondence with the European federations, for some sports was the corresponding pan-European organization. On the basis of the above, how do you plan to restore this negligence, as for about thirty children, their corresponding molecules are still pending on the basis of n. 4115/2013? Will you do that with a ministerial decision or an amendment? On this occasion, I would also like your opinion - I know that you are preparing a new bill on sport - in relation to the moleculosis of athletes - students, as there are rumours that general moleculosis will be abolished and will only apply to TECAs. It is something similar to what he tried to do and the draft law of the previous government with Mr. Andrianos' draft law and had raised great opposition to the sporting world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you are aware that on the points raised in your question I have already answered in writing a question which you had submitted with my former colleague Mrs Antonaku since last month. I would therefore like to repeat during today's debate, firstly, that it is not entirely accurate that the Baku matches were a small Olympiad. This is because there was unequal distribution and unequal distribution of athletes and level of contestant athletes, since too many national groups had decided to participate with groups of young people, adolescents, youths, etc. Other national teams had also sent high-level sports delegations, so competition was not at the same level. You, as a leading athlete, know this very well. When a group of men has to compete with a group of teenagers, you understand that the distance is too long. Therefore, here we did not have a stable competition at all levels. The second thing I want to say to you is that the services and the responsible address of the Ministry of Culture and Sport in the field of sport had replied to the Hellenic Olympic Committee that the relevant races are not included in the law in order to give the privileges, which are overlapped for other categories of athletes in other races. However, there is one reflection and I have already discussed it with the President of the Hellenic Olympic Committee and with the President of the Swimming Federation. In cases where the European Federation decided vertically in all sports, which took place in Baku, to participate adolescent athletes in the same category, we are considering the legislative way in which no one will be wronged and the Greek athletes, who have been distinguished, will receive the privileges corresponding to a corresponding European organisation. But I would like to say to you that we are very cautious about including in the list, which is already long and re-examined, and European struggles. Because we all know very well that a sporting event must be judged in depth by its scope, by its dynamics, by its longevity and by its perspective. Therefore, if we see that these struggles have a follow-up and indeed this follow-up is at a high level, we will not hesitate to legislate on this. So far, however, all we are dealing with is the point that I mentioned before, and it is the way in which the regulation will take place. Mr President, I shall return to my second point, to refer to the second question raised by Mr Mavroy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Mavrotas, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I agree with what you said. However, these struggles were of the character of categories of pan-European adolescents, young people, etc. and the corresponding struggles that would take place in Baku were not the same year - in fact - and I think it would be unfair for some children not to benefit from v. 4115. In relation to the second time I asked you, the rumour that there is to change the motives of school athletes present in the n. 4115 and instead of having one general force, only apply to TECAs, for the Gymnastic Academy, that is, I would like to say: In general, I have repeatedly written about the motives that must exist in sport. Moleculosis is essentially something that gives children not as much incentives as parents turn their children into sport, knowing that some hours will be missed from the study and will be in training to be replaced by some molecules that may have in the introductory examinations, if and if they have a good performance. There are parents who have passed through sport and know the beneficial effects. The aim is to convince parents who have not been through sport to turn their children into sport, something that is necessary in today's era with the problems of child obesity, socialism and all that we know. If the introduction only applies to the TECs of sporting athletes, I, too, have remembered since the 1980s - when this was the case - the low participation in sport of the various young children. The big boom happened when the law changed and substantially widened the field of introduction to all schools. Even abroad, if you wish, the examples we have - of course, there are no molecules, but they are getting scholarships, either in America or in other European countries - show how important it is to have sporting status. From my experience as a professor at the Polytechnic School, I see that children who enter molecules from sport are one of the best students. After all, during the visit made to you by the polo team who took the bronze medal at the recent World Championship and during the debate you had, you saw several children studying in schools because of this benefit, and they even stadium in places other than the coach's area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But, as you know very well, every time there is a beneficial measure in Greece it can be abused. I recognize that in this case too. This is where there needs to be control and insurance, so that no phenomena that we have seen in the past do not happen. In other words, those who really try and do not have a molecules industry in some sports, as has happened, must be rewarded. In other words, rationalization is needed. We must monitor the lengthy course of athletes and not athletes - fireworks, which often enter planters into a group to get the molecules. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. However, we cannot only direct them to the Gymnastic Academy, that is to say to put buckets on them and tell them that if a child does sport, he should only become a coach, as if we were to make some central design and put them in the dilemma "or do sport or study." I believe that school and sport are two complementary and not competitive activities. Finally, I sincerely believe that if this general moleculosis is abolished and limited only to the TECAs, it will be the charismatic shot in Greek sport. Of course, I mean not only the sport of Olympic medals, but the sport that fills swimming pools, gyms and stadiums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I believe that a brilliant example of an excellent athlete and a brilliant scientist, who does not need to molecule himself into a higher education institution, was you. I would therefore like to say that one does not exclude the other and I would like to stress that in the thoughts of the leadership of the Ministry and of the service actors, there is to be a rationalisation and a regularization of the matter. Whilst it was introduced to stimulate, we have been observing over time - not only our own government, but previous governments - that there is, in fact, a circumvention of the law. This is a violation of the constitutional principles of equality and proportionality, beyond the fact that a climate of corruption has been established in which a young man is involved since teen age.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u59	No, but it hurts hand, it cuts hand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u60	That's right. So, as I said, we are looking at rationalization in order to bring about normality and not to be in front of pathogens that we have met in the previous period. I will tell you, Mr Mavrota, that at this very short time when I am responsible for sport of the State Secretary of State I have signed hundreds of decisions involving schoolchildren in the process of mobilisation. And I tell you that if half of these were to be active athletes over five years, then we would have one of the most powerful national teams in all sports in Greece. Unfortunately, however, this is only about moleculosis and then the story of sport is completely abandoned. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I would like to tell you, therefore, that perspective and aim are not to abolish a system which can deliver positively on sport, on Greek youth and on Greek students, but a class has to be introduced here, so that we do not face the paths of this level, which we are well aware of. I am returning to your first question and pointing out to you again, so that there is no doubt about what we have identified and rightly raised by your timely question, namely that any competitions were not European championships in a specific category - whether they are men or are children, etc. - and these have been transferred to the Bakou European Games, in this case we have already launched a process to see how, by what means, without including all the games on the list currently in existence, these athletes will get the privileges they rightly claim. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] That is why I told you that I was already in agreement two days ago, in fact, discussing the matter with the President of the Hellenic Olympic Committee Mr Kapralos. I have also had the opportunity to speak on the subject with the President of the Colombian Federation of Greece, which is now the most - I would say - of these games for the award of privileges. To conclude, I would like to thank you for the timely question and the opportunity you have given me to answer, to remove any rumours circulate about what the Ministry of Culture and Sport is going to do in this area. What we are going to do, we will do it in the light of equality, fairness and, above all, the moralization of young people, so that they do not participate in processes that affect both the spirit and the purpose of the law, which is to participate in sports events. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Contonis. We move to the second with No 79/311-2015 topical question of the second question of the Achaias MP in New Democracy Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of the Greek Open University. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Anagnastopoulou. You have the floor, Mr Katsaniotis, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u62	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Hellenic Open University, the PSC, was founded in 1992, but essentially started its operation in 1998. In these seventeen years of effective operation, it has proved its usefulness, value and acceptance by Greek society. He has already awarded tens of thousands of graduates to his graduates, and at the moment he has over thirty thousand active students. And yet, this academic institution, the first in Greece to give Greek citizens the opportunity to study distances and has for the first time passed the culture "never too late" is facing problems. The second feature of the EAW is that his students participate in the costs, both in undergraduate and postgraduate. Recently it became known that some two hundred ESDP employees - several of whom have been too many years and have been offering their services there - were being met by the ESDP programmes. These programmes end up and jobs are at risk. Apart from jobs, however, there is a risk that the university will continue to operate. The Greek state has to understand that the EAW is an institution that really provides high quality education on the one hand and on the other it is an institution that has really given the second opportunity to our very many fellow citizens. What the Minister has to tell us and we expect to hear is what will happen to these officials, how the Ministry is thinking about giving a solution to the great administrative problem that seems to be created, as are the objectives and plans for the Greek Open University from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u64	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Katsaniotis who gives me the opportunity to repeat what I said at the EAP, the Greek Open University, in Patras, along with the new management committee. So there I explained to them how the problem of contract staff and management will be solved. Secondly, I am sorry, Mr Katsaniotis, to tell you, but you are talking 'at the house of the hanged rope'. And "the house of the hanger" is not that of the government. I'll explain why I'm saying it. The new management committee of the PSC took up its duties on 28-8-2015 and inherited other issues as well. In fact, it was called upon to deal with the end of these people's contracts in a very short time, which expire on 15-11-2015, because all these people are integrated and paid for by the NRP. What the new management committee did right away, to resolve the matter and not to stay a hundred and seventy-seven people on the street and concern the smooth functioning of the university, is as follows: Firstly, it called for the approval of an extension of the NSRP projects for one month, i.e. until the end of the European Union NSRPs, a decision already taken and the remuneration and work of workers has been extended by one month. The second step taken by the new management committee was that it proposed - and accepted - the immediate promotion of legislation which will provide a solution for the stay of the contractors up to 31-8-2016, so that the institution does not affect its normal functioning. Thirdly, in this period of up to 31-8-2016, the new management committee in cooperation with us - we have discussed it with other competent ministries - will proceed to an organisational chart to show exactly what the university's administrative services are, which must be staffed and operated properly. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Following the finalisation of the Foundation's establishment plan - which I insist will take place until the end of the contract on 31-8-2016 - a transparent tender will be held. In this competition, of course, they will be able to participate in additional molecules and already existing OSH officials so that we can finally have a permanent administrative staff in the OSH, which we have not had for so many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u66	Madam Minister, you will forgive me, but I think that your position as a university does not allow you to say that, because you changed administration two days before the elections, the previous administration was not pleasurable. You're government by the Genarus. This should not be an apology for the previous administration. Here the government has to tell us from January and then what it has done. Is the good administration here? Was the last one bad? Is that how you understand the administration of the Greek Open University? In fact, I don't think you meant that and you meant something else. The second and most important one: the previous administration, Minister, has left you profits. The previous administration has chosen to use funds from the NSRF and not to charge the Foundation's budget. And you're coming to give her up? Why? Why didn't he hire other civil servants? That's why you give her up. Find a new NSA. Use the tools Europe gives us to avoid charging the institution's budget. And you know, the institution's budget comes from Greek citizens' money, from their tuition. What you have to tell us is what is the objective - not the organogram - of how you want the Greek Open University, how the Ministry wants it. From there, we'll find the organograms. Your obligation until then is to operate the institution. You have so far shown that you understand the state as a spoil. And don't tell me that the previous government did it. It's not an excuse. What you're doing shows you're not the new one. You're the last chapter of the old, because you're using exactly the same logic that you blamed. We have no confidence in you that the officials you hire will be recruited on merit, as we have no confidence in a commander appointed two days before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u67	Madam Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really surprised, Mr. Catsaniotis. I didn't want to lay the burdens on either of them or on any of them. But the previous commander knew...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u69	The Ministry is in command.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u70	It's a matter of command, Mr. Katsaniotis, to see how the university organizes and what problems the university has. Look, the previous administration - and I have the relevant FEK here and I will testify for the Minutes - knew that the term of office of the EPP is now ending in November. He didn't do anything. But I won't go to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u71	It's up to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u72	I will not now blame the previous administration, although you understand very well what I am saying. You really have a terrible problem with what public university means, public education, what it means to a university. Here's the dean, Mr. Fortsakis. You're absolved of how the Open University works without administrative staff. Mr. Fortsakis may also plead for that. Is there a university without permanent administrative staff, which even claims self-reliance with ESDP projects? Do you know what it means, Mr. Kasaniotis? That the employees are hostages of the administration, of the ESDP, whether they exist or not. Should not each institution have its establishment plan showing what administrative staff it needs? Is that the solution? Take the civil servants and put them like that? You are cut off for these hundred and seventy-seven men. These seventy - seven people are permanently hostages. The university - and because you touched it - has a large reserve. We know that very well. So this reserve of a university, a party, cannot be used to make its operation rationalised? As for the other, what we have to do for the university is that this university, because it really is an innovative university, gives a second chance, with a huge social role, what the new management has already asked us to do. There will also be a discussion with the other institutions of the country, how it can administratively, institutionally, research into transforming the university into a self-reliance. Because that is the objective of becoming self-powered, rather than staying from 1998, as you said so far, in this situation that it is. The second point I would like to say - I had announced it here, and the new management took it immediately and debated - is not to get new students in a draw, but to get these students on other criteria rather than randomity and have a university that can get even more people and give scholarships to this world, because it also has the possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, too. Of course, the subject of universities is not that simple. It is more complex and cannot be applied - I am also speaking in my capacity as a university student - the "every city and stage, every village and gym". In universities, this cannot be the case. Therefore, given the weaknesses our economy has, it is compulsory that universities cannot improve their level. In other words, I would like to say that we may have done too much in recent years with this trend, if possible, in every university village. This cannot be continued. This is not only the responsibility of the current government, of course. It is a timely responsibility, but we all have to deal with the problem properly, at least from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u74	This is the only university that has no spatial characteristics. It is distanced, and that is why we need to help it. He's got profits too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Skydras Pellas. Guys, we welcome you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the next debate, the third under number 83-11-2015, a topical question by Hercules Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of student care at the University of Rethymno. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Anagnastopoulou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, you will allow me, without any misunderstanding, of course - to say this. If we take Vismark's saying for granted and true, this is where a lot of professors are gathered, and I don't know if we're gonna find a solution today. It's one, two, three, four, five. I don't know if we can find a solution! It is good, however, by talking about education to find a solution to the problem with the teachers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u77	Don't worry about where a lot of people are. If it were three, that would be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u78	It's never too late for a new start! So with regard to the EPA, which was established by PASOK, it is not his situation, as you said, Minister, since 1997-1998. Started from scratch, evolved. Indeed, you can't leave an evolving institution in his luck. You're gonna have to improve the structure and so on. If, at the beginning, it could function with the structure it started, its growth and its qualitative upgrading really needs a further perception, but it should be governed by the guaranteed principles of transparency, staffing and everything that concerns it. I hope you don't get into a fight with the New Democracy about who's gonna break it down. That is what I wanted to say in a few words. He founded it in PASOK. Don't fight who's gonna break it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u79	You bet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u80	Yeah. Now, let me get to my topical question. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me time to raise this issue on the PSC. My question also concerns issues of higher education. Of course, with the focus of the University of Crete and the occupation, which is being held for a third week in the schools of Rethymno, we have the highlightation of a number of issues that the government should address. Themes - I appreciate - not only for Rethymnon and the University of Crete, but for all of Greece. They are the issues of administrative care, which in other periods of prosperous or normal economic situation for the great majority of the Greek people were not of such great value. At the time of the crisis, however, at the time of the crisis, even though the government's budgetary problems are being tackled, for society it is more prosperous this year than it was every year, until any positive development in the public finances takes place. We should see how we fulfil our obligations as a state and in relation to housing and about the issue of feeding and about the issues that have to do with student mobility. The example of Rethymnon, that seven hundred feeding cards were lost this year, is characteristic. The VAT was increased in the travel, the tickets increased in the urban traffic, and when the student has as a unique means of moving with an increased ticket, of course he protests. So we need to see these issues. We need to see - and I conclude - the issue of the allowance, which has been set up with a logic for EUR 1000 years now. We need to see how it is given in time. Unfortunately, it seems that the delay is too great. He wants a reform of the system. It cannot go through fifteen Commissioners on a matter. A commissioner must approve the total amount. As far as I understand that is the problem of bureaucracy. We are asking the timely question, but developments are still coming within three days. Unfortunately, problems are growing. So let me give you an opportunity to discuss the European school. Pay attention to the European school in Heraklion. Currently it has the certification process. If it is not certified, it will lose this status of European school. It has issues about teachers - a number of teachers are missing - it has issues in relation to technological equipment, from PC to other issues of technology equipment, it also has the question of housing. Because this was founded in about 2005 - in 2004, in 2005 or in 2006, I do not remember exactly - and it started with primary school. Now he's been in high school. Therefore, every year, needs are growing. We cannot say: 'Why didn't the other guy solve it last year?' But last year, there wasn't the Third High School. Last year, there wasn't a second high school. It's an issue that's evolving. On these two issues, above all, I would like to see what you have done, if you have dealt with them and what you have done, and if you can give us general information on what is going on in terms of primary and secondary education and on the almost unanimous decision taken by the House to finance the recruitment of alternates from the Public Investment Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Faced with a crowded Mr. Kegeroglu, how can I answer in three minutes? He put all the issues on me. You will allow me, Mr Kegeroglu, to limit myself to the timely question, at least in my prototype. Let me tell you what I understand. And I think all of us here, or at least all of us, are genuine in our interest, and it does not raise political and party controversy about student care, especially in such times. So I want to tell you that the University of Crete was awarded this year for 2015 with EUR 1.58 000 for feeding, just the same amount as last year. Nothing's been cut. We tried to do that. Secondly, with regard to the annual housing allowance of EUR 1 000 per student, who not only calls for the allowance, but also has the economic criteria - EUR 30,000 annual parent income, increasing by EUR 3 000 for each child, etc. - This amount has already been approved. It's 47,592,000 euros. As you know very well, this money is transferred at their request to the Financial Control Services and beyond available. We have therefore cut absolutely nothing for the year 2015, as for the year 2016. But I would like to tell you specifically about the University of Crete that in the new redistribution we made, with what the Ministry of Education had available, the University of Crete will get 100 thousand euros more for the feeding. It is almost the same as the one taken by the National and Kapodistrian University and the Aristotle from this second redistribution. But I would like here, Mr Kegeroglu, to say one thing, which we should think of as a Parliament and we as a ministry first, that there should be a rationalisation of both feeding and housing, because we have a huge fragmentation. Other homes are held by INEDIDIM, other homes by the Ministry of Education or by the universities. On the subject of feeding, for example, Heraklion - you know, the University of Crete is Heraklion and Rethymnon, and from the same grant we have the same donor for feeding - it has no problem, but Rethymnon has no problem. There we need to see for what reasons this is or why the University of Crete controls the feeding every six months, while the other universities every month. There are such problems that we need to solve so that we can save money for as many students.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. We shall now proceed to the last time question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u84	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u85	Excuse me, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u86	It's a fact that I talked in the first word, but don't cut my right to secondary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u87	You also had an initiative to talk about teachers in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u88	With your permission always.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u89	Sure. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u90	There has been an effort with the second division, but I can tell you that this has been done for a hundred and fifty additional students, compared with seven hundred who have fallen. How can the same money be reduced by seven hundred, I don't know. You need to see it. But the question is, and I agree with that - but you must agree, because I did not see you agree - that we should see that the needs are unfortunately growing. The state's public finances may be improved, but the social consequences of the crisis will be deepened for two, three or even four more years, depending on which social group the student and each family belong. I therefore believe that the amount allocated to feedingstuffs should be increased, at least last year's figure being met. With regard to the housing allowance, I will inform you that I have worked with Mr Loverdos as the person responsible for social welfare, the unification of the family's allowance in an application, the student and the student, which is now given by three different sources with three different bureaucratic procedures. They should be consolidated in the Ministry's A21 application, which can be of the other ministries now, so that they can be made more quickly. Not like now that they've been given two months late. This was due to indifference or to mistakes made by the Minister, or I do not know who else, and that is why they gave them two months' delay. It is, however, the most transparent and fastest system for the performance of these aids. So this preparation, I ask you to return, to cooperate with the competent authorities and to establish it, so that with an application - A21 - the student and the student allowance for poor families can also be granted. The general child benefit is already given. There's no need for another procedure. And it is given within three months, while the student allowance, as I understand it, is now going to be paid from 2014. Are these things now at the time of the crisis? When it was institutionalised by the PASOK - Simitis government, it was another period. Now people don't have to eat. That's why the relocations had to be opened. And it is gratifying that in recent years the procedures have been opened, because the family cannot maintain a second and a third home. Still needs further reform. I conclude for the universities, and I would like to say that we expect to hear initiatives - not that the same money went - which will enable us to have more support for weak families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to go back to the European school and tell you that it is not really on the question and I do not want you to give me any answers. But tell me if you've been informed of the certification process under way these days. Teachers, technical equipment and housing are missing as it appears from the municipality and periphery initiative. It is a big issue, however, because even if ENISA ceases to have important activities in Heraklion - because the Athenian-centric state always wanted to grab what it could from the region and grabbed ENISA, apparently - the European school should continue to operate. Because there are other European services, not a body on the dimension of ENISA, but other and too many families who are eligible to attend the European school. I want to see if you've been involved and if so, what are you going to do? And I'm telling you, despite the intake in the last few days of the funding approved by the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u91	Please finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u92	...there are in Crete, for the first degree over two hundred gaps in addition and in secondary about fifty. The number is lower, and there are second, most importantly, the specialties. But at primary level it still has a big, about two hundred gaps in Crete. I'm not talking about a county, but across Crete. I believe that this procedure is under way, and I ask you to do anything to ensure that these loose ends are immediately closed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, we will not let you leave here today. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u94	Okay. I won't be long. I will assure Mr Kegeroglu - and I will put it in the Minutes of the House - that, as far as student care is concerned, we have not cut anything from what was foreseen for 2015. The same amounts are provided for 2016 as well. What I want to say to you and we are constantly working on it with the services, which have made a lot of progress on this issue and give us an opening for further thought, is the electronic recording - how can I say it at this moment - of students and students at all levels, that is to say, who can immediately refer to their electronics and their tax information and even to military offices. To have a full picture, not to have this mess of bureaucracy. That proposal you said I didn't know. I can look for her and see her, gladly. In other words, what can be facilitated at the moment, so as to make the most of the little resources we have - because we do not have much instruments - and they should cover students and students at this time of crisis, they should be done. Mr Kegeroglu for the European school I know that his certification is progressing. Because I don't have any evidence with me, I can give it to you at any time. I don't want to tell you things. For primary and secondary school, I know the Minister is doing the impossible. We had a second wave of deputy recruitments, after parliament approval, to cover all gaps and no gaps in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the 7th Municipal School of Transition. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, please tell the children that it is parliamentary control, which is why Members are not present. It's just the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u97	Of course. Today is the day of topical questions. Not all MPs are here. It is the Members who ask the Ministers and the Ministers responsible who come here and answer the honourable Members. The fourth question will be discussed under number 77/3-11-2015, topical question by MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the reduction in cotton production due to intense rainfall in all the prefectures of Thessaly. The Deputy Minister will answer, Mr. Marcos Bollaris. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. The problem created not only in Thessaly but also in the wider territory of our country, by the constant and intense rainfall of September in cotton farming, which September is a month in which we are at the harvest stage - but also in May, which was the first stage of cultivation, has led to the injury of all cotton crops. At the same time, part of production has been destroyed, while the first estimates show that there will also be a total reduction in production that may be surpassed - from what at least the first figures say - a 30% reduction. Of course, these estimates were confirmed, as far as the part of Thessaly is concerned, in the first days of the harvest. In particular, in specific areas of Thessaly, the reduction in production also exceeds 50%, while in these damages we should also include the deterioration of the quality of the product collected. More intensified - and also in Trikalon Prefecture - the problem appeared in particular in the Municipality of Farsalon in Larissa, on an axis between the villages of Power and Krin, as well as in other villages of the Municipality of Killer, Zoodochos Source, Halkidiki, Eudrio, cotton etc., which, apart from the rainfall, were affected by windstorms, rainfall, etc., which resulted in the destruction of whole cotton field production, but also in other crops such as corn, fodder infrastructure, livestock units with parallel destruction in houses, cars, tractors, in warehouses that had been stored wheat, as well as in harvested cotton production, which has not been delivered to the divestries. The question, Mr President, to the Minister is what measures will be taken, firstly, to proceed with the recordings and assessments, but also, of course, to provide 100% of the damage, which, of course, requires the change of the ELGA regulation. Furthermore, to ensure that all farmers will inevitably receive the associated aid they would have been entitled to if they had not suffered the damage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure presents its report to the proposal from the President of the Parliament "to amend the Rules of Procedure of the House - Part II" (Government Gazette 51 A-104-1997), as applicable). Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, thank you very much for the question you have put, which in fact shows the co-responsibility, anxiety and interest you have in the producers of Larissa, Thessaly, and I can assure you that corresponding care, anxiety and effort is available from the services responsible for compensation. For this reason, with regard to the damage caused by rainfall - which were intense and which were phenomena typical of natural disasters, with tornadoes - the following has so far been done: At first, some six thousand applications have been lodged by producers. The damage, that is, is extensive. These statements relate not only to cotton but also to maize, but also to maize, to fixed capital, to plants, but also to vegetable capital, that is to say, trees which have been seriously damaged. As far as damage to fixed and vegetable capital is concerned, on-site visits and assessments from ELGA workshops have been completed. Currently there are estimates of the damage suffered by extensive crops, namely cotton, mice, corn. As you know, in accordance with the ELGA regulation, these assessments will be completed and there will be a possible procedure for objections in order to be finalised in order to provide compensation. We hope that this will be done as soon as possible. ELGA will start in the next few days to pay compensation for 2015, following a chronological order. As far as the related link is concerned, you know very well that it is related to the amount of production that will be deposited, which will be sold. There's a threshold, that's forty pounds per acre. This cannot be estimated today, and for this reason we have to cooperate with OPEKEPE every year to see the amount of the quantity deposited. If there is a question that poses a problem in paying the connected one, there is the cooperation of the OPECE with the ELGA. If this cooperation proves that there is a reduction in production due to natural disasters, then the issue is resolved because the drop in production is calculated accordingly in order not to damage the producers, but to make the payment of the related. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. It is understandable - and the Minister knows it all here in the Chamber and not only - that, alongside this situation created in cotton farming in Thessaly and in general - we are talking more specifically about Thessaly - the income of cotton producers has suffered a great deal of damage. Here we have issues that farmers are dealing with, as are the majority of workers in our country. At the same time, with these problems arising from rainfall in cotton, but, if you like, also from the natural disasters suffered by agricultural production over a period of time in general, farmers have to deal with a specific policy. They have to deal with the policy of the European Union and the current governments, as well as with the current government, which gradually unfolds its policy and the agricultural sector with taxation from the first euro, with the advance payment of tax, with the increase in VAT, with what farmers pay to the ELGA, to the OSCE, along with the rafts that are constantly called on to pay. See also yesterday's vote on the report on the increase in the tax on oil for farmers. Of course, we believe that the demands of farmers expressed through the rural associations in the region are justifiable. And not only are they expressed in Larissa, but also in Trikala and Karditsa. Yesterday they had a symposium not only on these issues, but more generally on the issues relating to the policy which is unfolding and with which the small and medium-sized farms are being rooted. These specific demands are being conveyed. And we say, direct recording - as has been said - and assessment of damage to fields, etc. Secondly, here, Mr Minister - and this is not a matter now, it is a request from farmers for years now, the rural associations, the rural movement - that the ELGA regulation should be changed. We must take into account here - and the government's political leadership and the government, like the previous governments, should do so - the climate change and the new conditions that are evolving in our country on the basis of climate change and the consequences, of course, of these climate changes in agricultural production. Here, in particular, we say that there should be a decision so that no producer who will not complete the cotton plaque will lose, as has been said. And we believe that this will be done, as you said before in your prototype, that it will not lose the associated aid. After all, it is not the farmers themselves. The farmers whose crops - cotton, wheat, etc. should therefore receive substantial compensation. - which was stored, lured and destroyed by rainwater. We say that exceptional compensation should be granted by means of a joint ministerial decision, because, as I said before, it is not provided for in the ELGA regulation, which does not, in any case, cover - and we all know that - damage to natural hazards. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. To compensate farmers who have been damaged by tractors, farm machinery, residents who have suffered damage to their homes in these villages, shops and cars. The interest should also be frozen - that is, capital - on loans from farmers affected by rainfall. At the same time, to those who need, to the affected farmers in the region, an interest-free loan with a public guarantee to cover the damage. However, we may also need an emergency grant - because there are several such cases - in order to meet basic needs. Because, as I said at the beginning of the question, they are required to pay the taxes, HIS, and everything that the Greek people pay for their majority. On this point, Mr President, I would like to say that, beyond all this, we have - and I would like to put this in our debate - the conclusion that farmers are taking, in particular, on the part of taxation. A climate is crafted - in the direction followed in previous years by the PASOK, with the New Democracy - of the farmers' s slander. Small and medium-sized enterprises that actually have small incomes meet their obligations. They have little income, so little tax burden and they respond. Parts of what they're inclined to do. Faced with this policy, we are clearly saying that farmers should organise their struggle, their claims, so that they remain in their fields, in their land and in their villages, to survive and live. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. You have the floor, Mr. Bolaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we agree with the honourable Member on the question. Indeed, ELGA, the assessors, is from the very first moment in the field, where the damage occurred, where we have affected areas and affected producers. As I told you, assessments in fixed and vegetable capital have already been completed, and now there is a working effort, a daily presence, to complete the assessments in the fields. Yes, Mr President, there is one point about compensation for the affected - in the facilities - because of the naturality and they should be compensated for by the PES. These are losses that are not included in the ELGA Regulation. If you want my opinion - and this is the government will - the ELGA regulation offers improvements so that it is more modern and can respond more quickly and more efficiently, making use of the contributions paid by farmers in order to return to the beneficiaries, to those affected as quickly as possible. It is one of the challenges facing the country, one of the priority challenges of the government. You will see them as they develop in the next few weeks, in the next few months, these issues. And because your concern and your love for farmers are known, you will see it manifested by us and we want you to be loved. I would also like to tell you that the government realises that to get the country out of the crisis, it needs growth. But development is neither a vow nor a slogan. Growth wants a daily, laborious effort to support producers, to support production and, indeed, to upgrade production, quality production, certified production, to highlight with policies of certified quality production. This is how we increase per capita income. This is how we increase the country's GDP. This is how we support the producer and family, the local society and the country as a whole. In this effort, we are committed to working every day. The country in this four-year period must come out of the crisis. That was the message sent by the Prime Minister yesterday from the Step of the House. Our will, our conviction is that this must be done, that this can be done and we will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-06-S1-commons.u105	Thank you too, Mr. Bolarius. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Monday, 9 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 73/3-11-2015 by MP I Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the delays of the tram projects in Piraeus. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 81/3-11-2015 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Style, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the exclusion of technological educational institutions from the Ministry's invitation to participate in the seminar entitled "Training of teachers for the development and implementation of digital technologies in the teaching act". 3. The 53/29-10-2015 topical question of the Deputy Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK. - DIMAR Mr. Friday (Evia) Christophilopoulou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the country's insurance system. 4. The question asked by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the completion of the hybrid energy project Ikaria and the road "Gemelia - Front – Lower Prespers". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction regarding the coverage of transport costs by public service contract and PSAL students. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 84/3-11-2015 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning measures to reduce the energy costs of the country's industries and craft industries. 3. The question by No 82/3-11-2015 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Giokas, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the criminalisation of students' racing mobilisations. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
