ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will first discuss the fourth under No 216/13-5-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the Potamian MP, Panagiotis Karkasoulis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the strengthening and upgrading of the Civil Service Centres (KEPs). The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, George Katrugalos. Mr. Cartassouli, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today's topical question concerns the future of JEPs and JEPs, as you know, is one of the most popular administrative destinations, if I may express the expression, and certainly the most successful reform, which has taken place in the public administration during the period of postmultiple, in terms of citizens' service. The numbers are typical. A study, which had been carried out two years ago, shows that between 2004 and 2009, over a five-year period, some four million people from the JEPs served, which shows how friendly JEPs are for citizens. On the other hand, there are issues that should in some way have been resolved, such as birth certificate or family status, and, of course, certificates of general use and tax information. As far as staff are concerned, the problem now arises is that they are constantly integrated, because of their popularity, new procedures in the JEPs. Given the workload that the JEPs already have and with their limited staff, due to the redundancies that have occurred as a result of the expiry of the fixed-term relationships, the JEPs will be under very high pressure. Already, only book publishing for uninsured is estimated to be about two million people, as well as feeding allowances, directed at over two hundred thousand people, etc. So the content of my question is: What do you intend to do, in terms of the fixed problems of the JEPs? The consistent problems of the JEPs have to do with the level of the budget, which is spent on their support. This already amounts to an amount which under the present circumstances is important. Approximately 78,823 000 euros were the latest items in the budget, which I have at my disposal. And, of course, we have one staff, which is about four thousand people, plus the staff, which we now have for the already overloaded JEPs. That is the first question I wanted to ask you, and I then reserve myself in my denunciation for a proposal on how to improve things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u3	You've been raped, Mr. Comrade. You have time from the Bureau and from me in particular. So you strangely rushed too fast. But I'll give you more time. The Minister, George Katrugalos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u4	I fully agree with the questioner, Mr Kartsouli, about the great importance of the JEP institution, which is also reflected in statistics. I see here that in 2013 three million and fifty thousand applications were submitted to the JEP and three thousand six hundred ten in the year 2014. This is already a significant 14% increase. It was also right to point out that, in the context of the measures we have taken as a government to deal with the humanitarian crisis, a new area of responsibility for the JEPs has come, on the one hand, with regard to the bill on dealing with the humanitarian crisis through the feeding card and, on the other, through the processing of the JEPs and the uninsured booklet. Indeed, there is a burden, therefore, new procedures that come to the JEPs. I have tried to deal with this, by contacting the workers' federation there and committing to them that the new procedures will henceforth be in cooperation with them, so that they can transfer their own know-how. However, the basic instrument, by which we intend to resolve the issue of overloading the JEPs, is mainly through e-government, through the use of the EMPU system and the transfer of large numbers of responsibilities and procedures, which are now made at JEP level electronically. As you know, because you are one of the experts here in the field, forty of almost a thousand procedures are handled by electronic means. In thirty-seven of them the requested certificate shall be provided by direct interface of the information system. We are going to multiply these electronic processes and ensure that most of them can be made from the user's home without a personal presence in the JEPs. For this purpose, as you rightly point out, they have become part of the public sector reform under the 2014-2020 Programme, various actions of the forward project Single Citizen Service System. This includes mainly five sub-projects: Sub-project one entitled ‘Citizens' Affairs Management System Services’, where the financial assessment has been completed and it is expected to start in 2016 with a budget of 3,375000 euros. The sub-project two entitled "Services implementing single electronic management of workflows and electronic archiving", which is in a state of award and has a budget of 8,683,000 euros. Sub-project 3, entitled 'Communication - Publicity', for which a notice is expected to be issued. Sub-project four entitled ‘Nature the internal procedures and environment of the host entities’ for which a notice is expected to be issued. Finally, subproject five entitled 'Enhancement of international practices and know-how'. Already, the existing ‘ERM’ system is upgraded and a rough tender has been opened for maintenance issues. Then we are going to put new procedures in this system. On the issue of staff, which you rightly point out again that there is great pressure due to the memorial policies of the past, we have incorporated JEPs into the system of the small mobility of the recent bill and we hope to meet some basic needs of this mobility programme. Obviously, in recognition of the great importance of the institution, we also hold back for the future, when the situation of the economy allows it, the opening of permanent positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Cartassouli, you have international authority and recognition and you know the issues. So don't be content with questions. Go find the Minister - he is receptive to the debate - and explain them to him closely. You have the floor, Mr. Cartassouli.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. One of the important things, in relation to the JEPs, as we have seen with the progress of years, is that certain procedures, which become particularly popular, employs too many citizens. Such procedures necessarily require equivalent staff. If one thinks, for example, that one and a half million citizens have been calling for certificates or attestations to be made to the Budget, for many years now the debate has been how these could be done electronically. As for this part of my question, I am covered, even though you know that these projects are going too late and you should try as far as possible to speed them up. However, I realise that there is no other way than that. What is important, however, is that apart from calendar certificates, classic OTA certificates, JEPs are now going to the JEPs for complex procedures, because the list of procedures added each time to JEPs is constantly increasing. From an earlier work done in the context of the implementation of the 'CALKARAT', for example, I will refer to business JEPs. The need to create thematic JEPs constantly arises. I realise that it is extremely complicated to create a thematic JEP because the citizen can then be confused or not know exactly where to go. However, if we do - for example - an entrepreneurial JEP, in order to help small entrepreneurship, that is to say, to open small shops, which do not have to pass all this process provided for by the current law, perhaps it would be in a positive direction, especially if it were at the entrance gates of the country. This had previously been attempted to study, i.e. if with about thirteen or fifteen such business JEPs we could help the part of entrepreneurship. The same applies to migration and to other such issues, where it is shown that JEPs have the ability to respond because of their popularity. So I would suggest this and allow me to analyse it for a minute. If in future we are going to discuss targeting, efficiency, indicators, that is to say an attempt to improve the services, which at the moment all work horizontally and I would say isotopeically, you could see the conditions under which JEPs could be made more efficient. In other words, we know that in the region they operate in a completely different manner and have quite different performances from, for example, Kallithea, in the centre. Therefore, some of these could combinedly see them evolving, some others taking another turn, serving another direction and others merge, possibly in the context of OTAs or the operation of OTAs. I don't want to say anything specific at the moment. There is evidence at your disposal, if you are interested. You can get an idea. However, this is also the practice abroad, and many times it has been indicated to us that using new technologies and differentiation of the JEPs by region and need, we could go to a much more efficient system and maintain the best or, in any case, the most efficient reform we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u8	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kartsoulis for the constructive proposals. The spirit of these proposals finds me absolutely in agreement. Let me tell you that in this direction we have already contacted the Chambers of Commerce, so that there are Offices of Electronic Entrepreneurship within each Chamber, beyond about fifty-four Special Business JEPs that have been planned throughout Greece. Therefore, we are at the same wavelengths and I think that in the future, taking your constructive proposals into account, we will be able to improve the operation of the JEPs even further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. The honourable colleague, Mrs Friday (Evi) Christophilopoulou, Mr Attica of PASOK, will develop the seventh under number 232-18-5-2015 topical question of the first cycle to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on increasing transparency in the public sector, the "DIAGY". The question will be answered by George Katrugalos. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like your tolerance for half a minute, because the debate that has really taken place was very important. From my experience, since the late 1990s that this truly popular institution of the JEPs has been created in the Minister of the Stavros Benos and Kostas Scandalidis, a proposal has been passed for many years and perhaps, Minister, a proposal will be made when you are ready with a project - because we need more attention - to have a broader debate of the Committee on Public Administration. The object is such that I think that colleagues from the region will enrich your own initiatives and it would not be bad - a proposal I do - to have such a debate in the Committee on Public Administration. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance and I now come to my point. In 2010, respectively, the "DENMARK" was first established in the country. Minister, it is a reformist innovation - I think you have also recognised it - which shields transparency and inspires democracy and the rule of law, because it allows it to facilitate control and evaluation not only of the progress of the expenditure, but also of the decisions of the central administration, regional administration and, more generally, of the government bodies. We know until now that every day we have sixteen thousand general government posts, every month we have about eighty thousand posts in the "GENERAL". Since 2007, more than four and a half million acts of administration and self-government have been posted online. That means a wealth of data, but it also means a control capacity. I must tell you that we have passed two pieces of legislation. 4210/2013 and L. It is true that the European Parliament has not yet been consulted on this matter, but it has not yet been consulted. I would like to say to you that according to the provisions on non-governmental organisations that, after the regulation we have brought, are obliged to post public money on the Internet, but also the municipalities and bodies in the wider public sector are now obliged to monitor, post the implementation of their budget to real time, as we say, dynamically, at the same time live on the Internet, so that we can monitor expenditure. These arrangements, Mr Minister, have also been voted on by the party to which you belong. Although your party had not voted in 2010 on the 'DENMARK' programme - and I can say that, I believe, these provisions have been passed. And I heard from the Prime Minister, but also from you, many good words and I thought we would probably have enlargement. Instead, Mr Minister, the first thing you have done is to take the initiative of the Ministry of Finance to exclude some actions from the "DENGY". And this is not an initiative taken by your government only now, but there was also an initiative in the previous government, by the Ministry of Finance - this ministry again - here in the Chamber. And I invoke, Mr President, your testimony, because then you were here as a public administration officer of the current ruling party, as a Civic Opposition, when I took the initiative and withdrew this arrangement, with staff - if you want - because it had to be shielded by the 'DENGY'. Because if we are to introduce, ladies and gentlemen, a regulation such as the one already adopted, that the Ministry of Finance is not directly required, as the law says - and that was also a conquest that if we do not have an act on 'HUMANY', it is not the case - we have a great exception. I recognise - and you know that - that there has been a practical problem with regard to the Thessaloniki Region and with regard to specific appropriations for the transfer of pupils. However, the regulation you have introduced and which has been adopted is a general regulation. Therefore, instead of bringing in a limited power arrangement and a regulation that would be once and for all, Minister, you accepted the arrangement of the Ministry of Finance, which makes us think your announcements on the enlargement of the "GENERAL" were only announcements. Because if you want as a government to increase transparency, then you must ask the Minister for Finance to bring this regulation to an end and to amend it, so that it is specific and that it is only at a time when the problem has happened. Mr President, I abused time. I stop here and stand by.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I am also pleased to note that, in principle, the importance of the 'DENMARK' and the role of strengthening not only transparency but also democratic accountability, I am in complete agreement with the honourable Member. We intend, in fact, to strengthen the 'DENMARK', mainly through its interconnection, as the honourable Member suggests, and through improving its usefulness. One of the problems of "GENERAL" is that because of the large scale of the decisions that are being posted it is not very easy to do targeted research. We therefore intend to improve this possibility by means of search masks. So these are the things we agree on. As far as the criticism is concerned, I should like to make it clear that we do not, with the amendment of the Ministry of Finance which I have accepted, have the exception of some of the acts of the 'DIAGY'. A special category of reversal acts can be posted up to one month after their publication. That is to say, the rule that the administrative acts shall cease to apply to the acts in question. The term ‘DENMARK’ begins with the entry into force of these acts. But here I have two comments to make. By your law, Law No.4305/2014, and with the addition of Article 10a to the previous Law of the "GENERAL", Law No.3861/2010, we have recognised the technical problem that we have, as regards the implementation of public budgets, and it has been foreseen, once again as a general regulation - I read paragraph 2 of Article 10a - that publication is done without delay and, if this is not possible for technical reasons, no later than 10 days after the end of each calendar month. We therefore already have, under the existing regime, a general regulation on the implementation of the budgets, which introduces an exception from the correct rule of simultaneous publication, precisely because there is this technical issue. As far as refusal acts are concerned, this technical issue is a matter of major importance. Why are refuting actions? At the end of the financial year, it is noted that the heading shown in a code has not been used. In order to allow this specific amount to be used in the next financial year, a revocation order must be issued. They were obviously not in a position for the services on 31 December to have a full picture. So, what happened in the past? They were artificially finishing the financial year in October or November. They said, in short, to the suppliers that "to be paid, you will bring invoices up to October or November." In this way, obviously, we have reduced the financial effectiveness of the administration, because we have been artificially shortening the financial year. So with the regulation of the Ministry of Finance, what we are doing is to run out of the whole financial year and improve the effectiveness of the mechanisms of economic administration, without introducing any impact on transparency, because these decisions will be posted. But they'll be posted after a month. There is no technical way, even if we had the full interconnection of the registers, that can be achieved efficiently by 31 December. The alternative way would indeed, as we have done in the past, be by ad hoc legislation to come and legitimise payments. That's not right. The arrangements must be of a general and abstract nature when they face a general problem. This is, therefore, in terms of the subject of 'Guarantee' and the exception. The linking of the registers is intended to do it. You know, but - and I do not count on this to you, you know that I appreciate your work in the time when you had the responsibility of e-government - that one of the issues of the horizontal interconnection of public services is that there was no need for the originalisation of the electronic services of each ministry and of the registers, so that there would be no compatibility many times that would easily allow horizontal communication. I think this was another sample if not the clientele, at least the fragmentary nature with which e-government has been applied in the past and I think it is not fair to charge it to us. As regards the second and last question of the current question, when will the joint ministerial decision be adopted under Article 15(3), I have two comments. One is that if you look at the time that had run from October, the law was passed until the January elections, you will see that it is about equal to the time that has run from the elections so far. So, the omission you're putting to me in a way that I could return to you, precisely because, I imagine, you were responsible for issuing the relevant CIA at that time. However, because it is right to comment - and I have told you this more as a friendly joke among us - we intend to apply this provision. As I read it - and I have already instructed the services - it does not have to be issued, because the authorizing provision concerns the regulation of details, and the provision is clear. I have already said to go to circulars to implement this provision immediately, and if we look at the implementation of the circular that there are problems with implementation, we will proceed with the adoption of the relevant joint ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u13	You'll agree. He'll apply it. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the topical question is not just to criticise. It is to highlight aspects - of course also to make a criticism - but also to be able to help the government in question. Because the opposition of 'no' to everything, we have lived it as a government from you. We don't want to do that. It's over for me. Political life must be another stage. So my intention was not to condemn what you did in a few months' time, but to tell you where I think there are problems. To hear you very carefully, I have to say that, first of all, on the first issue, I do not disagree at all with the problem as you described it, for the withdrawal of acts. It's just like that, Minister. However, instead of introducing the fixed arrangement - I again insist - we could go to the ad hoc, which I agree is not the best, if we worked together with the Ministry of Finance. Because that's what we started then. Not that the government in question finds it easy for the ministries and especially the Ministry of Finance, believe me. There is administrative inertia, there are problems and strangles and distortions within the ministries, which the political leaderships in question must deal with. It is no coincidence, therefore, that with this Ministry there have always been problems in implementing this. I think that technically - because I am neither computer science nor you, Minister, are legal science - we cannot know the details. But what I am able to tell you is that I firmly believe that the technical specifications exist and can be implemented, as long as the Treasury wants it. Acknowledging what you said to me as exist, I insist that you can and must see the matter again, so that there is not even this little ferry door. I do not want to say that this abolishes 'TRAINING', but this opens the door. Tomorrow the "h" local government organization will go to the special problem and tell you "change something to "DIAGY", because I have this specificity". We're opening a bad precedent. That is what I have to say in this respect. I would therefore ask you to look again at the issue and bring it together after working with the Ministry of Finance. If you want, it is also a form of pressure which we at least intend to continue toward you and to your colleague at the Ministry of Finance. As regards the second part, there was no question of telling you 'because in three months'. First of all, you have voted for this provision. I am going to make a point concerning both of them. You referred to the implementation of the budgets and the possibility, of course, of being there ten days. The ten-day period, however, relates to the items posted in execution rather than to an administrative act. At the time when the administrative act was posted, it shall apply at that time. So with regard to monitoring the budget, because there is a problem and because it is very innovative in the country to do so, we felt that this ten-day period is reasonable and not for the actions of the administration itself, the decisions and all forms of action. So there's this dimension. In other words, in your reply, I am not covered in this regard. However, let us refer to the posting of the budgets in real time. You're right. There is no need for a joint ministerial decision. But why do we anticipate it? I would like to bring two good examples to see how the law - or the regulatory act - can act at one time. Mayor of Athens, Mr. Kamine, had implemented the system of posting the implementation of the budgets of the Municipality of Athens before the previous municipal elections. He had it as a good practice. On this good practice of the Municipality of Athens, we have based ourselves on the way to introduce this provision, which was voted in almost all Parliament. The municipality of Larissaion, on the other hand, after the law was passed which obliges it to post its budget in real time. So, Mr President, you can understand that many times the regulations that are being voted on act act promptly. I would say, therefore, that until the other municipalities and other bodies do so, it would be good if this ministerial decision were to come out to signal that it had to start. By the way, because we have also raised another important provision concerning NGOs, I would like to say that that is where we have prevented and made the ministerial decision. I beg you, Mr Minister, because, by the end of the year, the NGOs have the time to be ready to give the 'GENERAL' the billing figures for their expenditure, and not to leave this issue, and to follow it, in order to be able at the end of the year - and I hope that these ends of the year will come well and harmoniously for the country - to see where the money provided by the state and government bodies to NGOs has been spent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u16	As before in the other question, I would again like to thank the remarks that were of a constructive nature. I have said before that we have issues concerning the organization of the state and the administration, where we will have a political conflict, because each of us takes a different view of relations between the state, the market and society. But there are also issues such as this, which are particularly technical in nature, which are an expression of principles, such as the principles of transparency and accountability, which we accept - I imagine - all aspects of Parliament, where we can really benefit from the experience of previous implementation. So I listened very carefully to what you said to me and that is the implementation of the relevant legislation and, in general, to our attempt to improve the 'DENMARK', to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u17	Thank you both for your high-level development. We will now discuss the sixth question under number 217/13-5-2015 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the implementation of projects and the provision of services related to the treatment of immigration by way of derogation from the legislation and without publication of a notice. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Tasia Christodoulopoulos. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, thank you very much. Madam Minister, this is a relatively well-known matter. The newly adopted draft law on the democratisation of the public administration was passed - an addition to the amendment on 'Amendment of Article 28(8) of the Act to address the exceptional needs of illegal immigration'. This amendment provides for the possibility of concluding contracts by means of a negotiated procedure without publication of a notice on housing, feeding, hygiene and return of third-country nationals entering the country irregularly. This in itself is a matter. You'll explain the emergency. I read the explanatory statement very carefully. However, I would like to see some figures, to see whether the numbers of the first quarter - which were sufficiently increased in relation to our maritime borders - are continuing for the next two months or we have the same flow, so that we can justify the exceptional nature of this change, because the award is tending to be transparent without a notice. In addition, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State refers very specifically to the reader as it is written: ‘From the proposed provisions, an additional burden on the State budget may be incurred as a result of the non-enforcement of the advantages of the competitive procedure’. This comes as a cover for non-transparency and is a possible extraordinary cost in the difficult times that we are going through. While we are rather honest with this government, I would also like us to show a good person to society. And we need to explain adequately - I think - why we are taking this decision. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, I would like to say that in the explanatory statement, but also in other publications I have read, this is a measure which has one on 31-12-2015. If this end of these measures and this provision is up to 31-12-2015, why is it not foreseen in the law? Because I'm afraid that the law extends this margin of non-applicability of competitions beyond 31-12-2015. I ask: what exactly are the reasons which led to the adoption of this regulation? Why does the existing legislative framework not cover the planned supplies of products and services, as described in the draft law? How is the public interest guaranteed, since the General Accounting Office of the State is at risk - if you like - and it is clear that we may have increased costs due to a non-competitive procedure, that is, since we will not have the advantages of the competitive procedure? Finally, since this amendment has emerged - again in accordance with the explanatory statement - from the need to address the current short-term increased migration and is therefore an exceptional measure, because it does not have a limited period of time so that with appropriate provision, organisation and preparation of the state, the original legislation will then be restored so that we do not have any further possible assignments of unresolved and cost-effective to the Greek public. Finally, I should like to tell you something I have not added, but it is another question: who is entrusting these projects, the municipality, the district or the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mrs Tasia Christododoulou, Deputy Minister, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u20	First of all, let us begin with whether there is an emergency or whether we have invented this provision for other purposes. I think that Greece and the world should be for the great flows that we are accepting on our islands. That is why, even in the European Union, which is usually not facing the problem at its heart, on the last European agenda for immigration, it has taken important measures for the first time, which we consider can really help the problem, which has to do with the relocation of refugees from the countries of the European Union that are under pressure from other countries in the European Union, but also the resettlement from countries in which refugees are located, to travel to a country in Europe, to other countries in Europe. It also decided, as we know, on exceptional financial aid. The images of our islands are known. I don't have to mention them. It is daily the images of people living in the ports, without dignity, without having the hospitality structures to host them or our services, which are the Asylum Service in particular of the Ministry of Migration Policy and the First Reception Service, to be able to secure these procedures so that they can receive these people as defined by European directives and by Greek legislation. So, as far as the exceptional circumstances are concerned, we have said them in the explanatory statement, which I hope you have read and criticised at that time - I do not allow you to do so - during the vote, so that there was actually a fertile talk about whether there were any exceptional circumstances or other purposes. In any case, as you ask for the new information, I would like to tell you that in the first quarter of 2014, 13 thousand three hundred and fifty-three people entered our country, and in the fourth quarter of 2015, thirty-six thousand seventy-two have entered the country. So we're talking about triple. You know that the media criticises us on the one hand that we do not care about the suffering of these people living with such inconvenience and on the other hand about the responsibility we have for the great influx. So it is a political issue that concerns the whole of the Greek society and which we believe is precisely that we have acted with readiness to deal with it, because it has to do with the following things: At the moment, Mr Kammene, we have neither money to accommodate people nor to strengthen our structures with staff, namely the Asylum Service and the First Reception Service. As a result, we see these phenomena on the islands, which are borne by tourist season, to be a reality. When this money comes, that is, the regular financing and the emergency decided by the European Commission, we must be able to absorb it in 2015, because otherwise we will be destroyed. There will be no possibility in this world of offering absolutely nothing. We will live a humanitarian crisis within the crisis and this is a great suffering for the people who live it, but also for our country that suffers it. Therefore, if the money comes - because we are questioned even if they will, despite the big words - if we were to enter competitions, we would not have taken them either in 2016 or 2017. You know what public competitions mean, objections etc. We therefore opted for the negotiation process, because, first of all, the European Union's own Rules of Procedure, which have been incorporated in the arrow, provide for this. 60/2007. So we're acting in the legal framework. Article 25 of this President-in-Office decree says that in the event of an emergency we can, by way of derogation from the competitive procedures, proceed to direct delegation. That's what we decided. Why? Why, on the other hand, if these wonderful European funds come - it is not the state budget, the state budget may have had to give and we would have gone to whatever procedures you wanted, but we are talking about this money - we have to go directly to delegation so that we can absorb it in 2015. Why - let's say this - the previous PASOK government - New Democracy did nothing at all to predict - why the state with all this might not have anticipated everything - but, since it had samples that there was an influx increase, to build some hospitality structures, as promised, that is, two and a half thousand posts by the end of 2014. It did not make them and it did not submit the request for funding in October 2014 and we submitted it now, so that we are in a financial void and that these legislation should be necessary. Finally, I would like to say to you this: we now have the concept of negotiation throughout the whole matter in the topical and urgent terms. We don't have her? First of all, the negotiation is not always transparent and, secondly, it is never at the expense of what is causing it, namely the contracting authority, which is the Asylum Service, which will make the negotiation to hire employees, get services, machinery, technology equipment. The contracting authority, i.e. the one it pays, has the main reason in the negotiation. There will therefore be no harm to anyone in the public interest. On the contrary, with the absence of competitions and overall I think that those who come to this negotiation will actually give the best prices so that these projects can be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u22	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. I think there was a misunderstanding. I also support you as a party and also personally in the move you are making. There was no invention of numbers. I know their numbers very well, I just didn't know how to triple. I've only known until March, which was twice as high since last year. The tragedy of these people is huge and, unfortunately, both Europe and the Greek Government will have to have a national planning and - I will say it - European planning. National strategic planning. Indicating someone to make something in Chios, I think it's an aspirin, an "emplastra" to a very severely ill in the intensive. The design of what is it? If the money comes and even that the General Accounting Office of the State is wrong, if you like, in its introduction or has any other rationale - I stand with you - what will it do for illegal immigrants currently in Chios? Do we know? Do we have a plan? That's what I'm saying. So if we make something in Chios next year, they don't go to Chios, but they go to Kos or to Samothraki or Gadus? What are we gonna do? We must have a plan, because it is good to assign it to this country - because I am four months of MP, but I am a citizen of fifty years and I have seen it - when a project is done without planning, then there is a duo. If there is no strategic planning, to testify to the strategic framework of feeding, security, movement, but especially of housing, we will be left as the Olympic real estate. We're gonna build a closet, end the migration issue, and we're gonna have to look at the drums. This money is valuable to the Greek people right now and so I would ask you personally to have a plan. Illegal immigrants will continue to enter, because we see that Syria is still burning and we see what is happening in Iraq these days. It is difficult and I personally disagree with the European Union's strategy, which has come to tell you 'I will inflatable the inflatable'. My problem isn't whether the inflatables are being seized. I think we're in agreement. We want transparency, we want transparency, and I would like us not to waste - I say it in a good way - money, building buildings, which are probably in a year to be useless to us and not to know what to do with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u24	Mr Kammenos, we have tabled a national proposal - because if you do not table a proposal, the money is not disbursed - about what we will do and what these funds will be used for. We don't build buildings. We have made a specific proposal for the hospitality of refugees, which is about renting homes, renting small units of old hotels, old private clinics or even leases in apartments, so that people can not live in great ghettos and that society can also welcome them so that everyone can live together harmoniously. Therefore, with regard to the hosting system what we have proposed to the European Union, which will also give the money - because I stress that it is European funds, it is not Greek - it is about such hosting. At the same time, we have also called for a number of aid to important issues, which are related to the islands and that these people cannot be identified and subjected to all these procedures laid down by the law, so that they are in the ports and a treaty of indecisiveness is created for them as well as for the image of the islands. That's where we've asked for coaches to be transported to the mainland. We have asked for ships to be transported to the mainland so that this picture does not exist on the islands. We have asked for machinery and other things with which it will be quicker to identify and all these necessary procedures. We have made a full list of national plans for the absorption of funds and if this proposal is adopted, we will also be given this money. Because, as I said, there has been a delay in depositing these funds. There is therefore no appropriateness in this provision. And because you made a mistake in the question, I will tell you that we have "deadline", in December 2015. So this provision will only apply for the remaining seven months, since the law has been published. It is L.4325/2015 and this is Article 36. With this law, assuming that we are talking about June - it is now starting - we are talking about a semester. So we wish that the money would be given in this semester, that we can have time to enter the negotiation and to make time for it and assign it. That's our concern. In conclusion, I would like to say to you that because there is an old Parliament decision - I do not make it as an observation, but I say it because I have a particular sensitivity to this issue - we should not call the refugees who seek a safe refuge in our country. They're desperate people coming here. In fact, let me note that the prosecutors of every place, each island, are absent from their criminal prosecution. I mean, he doesn't think they're committing a criminal offence. Therefore, there is no justification or legal or ideological. They are also refugees who are obliged to receive them and are not criminally persecuted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u25	We too endorse the latest opinion of the Minister. It has already been said about the use of this phrase. I know why you get used to it, Mr. Kammenos. Thank you, too, and the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis seeks permission from abroad from 27 May to 31 May. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u26	The House approved the requested permission. MEP Mr Theodoros Fortsakis seeks permission from abroad from 29 May to 4 June. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u27	The House approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr Xanna, seeks permission from abroad from 29 May to Monday 1 June. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u28	The House approved the requested permission. The first, with number 242/19-5-2015, top-stage question by MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakrias to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the study of the settlement - delimitation of the great stream of Rafina, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second, under No 223/18-5-2015, top-stage question by the Member of the Attica Parliament, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the reduction of crime in the Neocto-Octobers of the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 219/14-5-2015, timely question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaras to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the provocative action of Skopje in Florina, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fifth, with number 245/19-5-2015, top-level question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the airport of Chania, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The first question under number 241/19-5-2015 of the second question of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the issues of the ferry connection of Samos, Ikaria and Fornas with Piraeus and other destinations, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 234/18-5-2015, topical question by Attica MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kashiri to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on "bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the proclamation of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone", will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The fourth question under number 230/18-5-2015 of the second question of the Greek Parliamentary I Thessaloniki Mr Christinas Tachiaou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning the risk of the Greek metro from European funding will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment and deleted. The fifth question under number 246/19-5-2015, topical question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnanias, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the risk of the national network of Antirios - Ioannina, Amphichia - Lefkada - Preveza, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The sixth question under number 187/5-2015 of the second question of the Senate of Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the deprivation of the 14 regional airports, will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment and deleted. The seventh question, number 204/11-5-2015, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the treatment of unemployment among Greek seafarers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The eighth Question No 172/30-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the legislative guarantee of disability pensions and the unregulated first residence will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The ninth under number 168/28-4-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers, regarding the assignment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Let's look into why not all of this is being discussed, ladies of the Secretariat. The tenth question under number 201/11-5-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Member of Parliament for the Independent Greeks, Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the reform of the rules of operation of the "TITISIA S.A.", the finding of a solution for business merchants and farmers unable to meet their financial obligations, as well as the reopening of the auctioning of the first place, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The first question by MP Heraklion of the Socialist Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning compensation for expropriated property will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. Also, the second question with number 1328/100/31-32015 and an application for the filing of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens of the New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamani to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the privatisation of the Port Authority of Piraeus (OLP).), it will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The last question will now be discussed for today, the second question under number 224/18-5-2015, the second time question from the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of National Defence, on the development and upgrading of the Centre for the Education of the Neoslett Artas. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Nikolaos Toskas will answer. My colleague, George Stylos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, CEN Artas is the only ranking centre in Epirus and the Ionian Islands. The camp was before the liberation of Arta and is inextricably linked to the history of the city and the liberation of Epirus during the First Balkan War. Since the 1970s, he has been operating as a Center for Health Education. In July 2011, he was converted into a recruit training centre. To this end, work has been carried out on the reconstruction of its premises and significant funds have been made available. The camp infrastructure is modern and meets hygiene and safety requirements for easy adaptation of recruits. After a period of concern after 2012 about the operation of the camp and after many personal interventions and the political support of the former Minister of National Defence Mr. Avramopoulos and former Chief of GES Mr. Manolas, the Neoslett Centre of the Artas continues to operate. However, the manning of the camp with permanent staff is very low. According to the law governing the transfers of permanent staff, certain categories of staff are entitled to transfer to the first guard of desire - and I am referring to third parties, multitudes, parents of single parents, child care protectors. The Arta Neo-collection Center may contribute to this area, since the entire camps of the Arta-Preveza Regional Unit are no longer in operation. The Artas Neoslette Centre has the ability to troops more than five hundred soldiers in very good facilities, but in the recent ranking series, by decision of the Ministry, it accepts less than a hundred and fifty recruits per ESSA. In view of the transfers that will begin to take place within two months, Mr. Minister, what is the design of your Ministry for the continued operation and upgrading of the KEN Artas. What actions do you intend to take to assist with permanent staff of the CEN Artas and to increase the number of recruits assigned to five hundred with six hundred in each ESS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Before answering, Minister, we should welcome young people and young people from Thessaloniki who have come to see how exemplarily the Parliament of their country operates. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that Our meeting is attended by the upper Western theatres, after they were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Agios Athanasios Thessaloniki and the Municipal School of Anchialou Thessaloniki. We welcome you and wish you good progress and health! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Stylianou for highlighting this issue. I understand his sensitivity because of locality. Besides, because of my own identity from this county, I know the problems, and I can understand the sensitivity, as I said. But here we have a reality. Throughout our country we have a reality, which shows very low staffing - we used to call it old - of the units and centres where the defence effort of the country is, to the East, that is, and therefore it is necessary at this time for groupings to be made, for rationalisation to increase the effectiveness of our defence effort and for resources to be no longer wasted where it is possible to cut down. Training centres must be distributed so that there is a rational management of them, that there is a facility for the staff assigned, that is to say, to be close to the main roads and not to isolated areas - I am not referring to the region of Epirus, I say general principles - to be able to provide health support for these training centres by military hospitals and, anyway, to facilitate their access to and from the point of view of units. I also understand that at the moment any reduction in training centres in poorer regions, such as the region from the poorest region of Europe, must be taken into account. At the moment - to be informed - a study is under way for the entire structure of the Armed Forces. And of course, the main problem is in the Drought Army, where there are over a hundred camps with many questions about their usefulness, that is, far away from where the country's main defence effort lies. We are considering their necessity, but also how these units or camps can either evolve or see what will happen. They are efforts that should have been done badly since 1974. We are inheriting problems, which cannot be solved except by consensus of all the political forces and all the actors, locally or otherwise, and we are in this direction at the moment. Therefore, we cannot say whether a training centre or a unit is necessary or we are aiming to close it at the moment. We can say that we are studying all the factors and between these centres we are considering is the Arta Neo-Sector training centre. Indeed, I can say that this centre is blinking, no matter how tragic this is. He closed in 2012, reopened in 2014. In between, he remained a part of the staff. I can say that these are situations that do not honor the rational management of the public and, of course, the Armed Forces. We will take into account all the factors and the factor of the poor region of Epirus, but the whole process is under way, and that is what I can say for now. But another thing that we need to take into account is the huge staffing problems in dealing with the Oriental threat. I can say no public, but to any colleague in the Ministry of National Defence, the real problems and the actual staffing numbers of the units located east and west. I can also now report to you the very great cost of these training centres. As far as the possibility of covering more staff is concerned, I can tell you that this centre can cover six hundred people and cover close to the number you have said, but at the moment we have 13 training centres throughout Greece and in reality we need three or four. We will move on with priorities and to cover to as many as possible the staffing of the units located east as possible, but also to reduce costs, wherever possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. The "Ex East" young people up there in the gallery don't take it very seriously. That is how the Minister said it at the edge of the speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we should welcome more young people from beautiful Thessaloniki. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, sixteen students and students and three educational attendants from the 26th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. We welcome you. We wish you health and good progress! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. Minister, I have dealt very much with this issue and I have followed it from all sides and at the Ministry of National Defence regularly, but also here in the House. I would like to say publicly that in the previous study on the restructuring of the Armed Forces and which was presented here in the House, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, while the debate was over eight to ten hours, there was not a single reference to the recruiting centres, because, as was said at the meeting, they are very low in ranking and priorities in relation to the camps. So, as far as the study is concerned, I think a few things will be shown in relation to the probie centers. I would also like to point out to you that repeatedly since 2012, I myself have tabled three questions on this particular issue and a report, asking for relevant documents from the Ministry of Defence. However, the SYRIZA MPs elected in Arta Prefecture and elected, and at that time they have also tabled three questions. One of these questions had not only been tabled by a Member, but was tabled by all SYRIZA Members belonging to the area of national defence who succeeded in running the Arta camp and strengthening it. I would also like to inform you that - since I myself had been present at the Ministry of National Defence and had asked for military decisions - there has never been a decision to close the Arta camp and everyone in Greece knows that Lamia and above the unique centre of probies that operates is in Arta and another as a backup in Grevenas. Minister, this issue has monopolised the interest of local news in Arta several times and has been discussed at local council meetings. I would like to inform you that by a decision of the Municipal Council on the mandate of the relentless Mayor of Constantine Vaya there are no municipal fees paid by the Arta camp, so it has no expenses. I would also remind you that in each ESSO, according to information from your Ministry I have studied, they are classified by the wider region of Epirus and the Ionian Islands over six hundred recruits in the various centers throughout Greece. In view of the difficult economic situation, therefore, the Government could use the modern facilities of the camp by increasing the number of recruits to the maximum capacity and by strengthening its staff with permanent staff. At the same time, this enables recruits and their families to have reduced financial costs, as Arta has easy access and is located in the centre of the wider region of Western Greece and is very close, of course, to the Ennaia Road. Minister, I remind you that like you and I, we attract our origins from Arta, so the Prime Minister attracts his origin from Arta and in the recent parliamentary elections he was a candidate in the county, implying much and creating great expectations in Arta, Epirus and Western Greece in general. Finally, I propose that the government not only reinforce the camp with inspiring material but also take advantage of existing equipment in order to upgrade it to a branch centre or a health education centre. So I would like to ask you: have you considered the economic and social costs of each family? Have you calculated the travel costs of the soldiers to classify them? Have you considered that significant funds have recently been made available to rebuild the camp's building facilities in Arta? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u34	Minister, Mr. Stylus is fighting this. You attract your origin from there, just like the Prime Minister. All the arguments she told you. You said it's open, it's closed and it's gone to open again. Please, please, please, satisfy him now to get this over with. There's no better combination than what he invoked. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, we understand that this is not a personal matter, nor is it a problem between the continents, because it would then have been solved in very short time. But we understand that this is where we have to compare and look at the country's more general defence needs. We are in the dilemma between the great picture, the great needs and the small needs, the local needs and the great defence demands of the country and the economic, if you like, demands. So we have to compare all these things that could not be combined in any way, whether contractual or dialectical. Pick. It's too hard. I could say numbers too, Mr. Style. I could tell you that it is indeed municipal fees and water that this centre does not pay. However, it paid in 2014 EUR 47,000 for electricity. But that is not the case, it is not the figures and we do not want to get into accounting assessments. What matters is that we best operate the Armed Forces, the country's defence effort and if local populations can be served. In no case do we only put the country's defence demands on us, because we combine the country's defence with social needs. I told you before that the poor region of Epirus for us is of particular importance and all these factors will be considered when the right time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister. Thank you, Mr. Style. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate as well as the reports - Questions have been completed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-25-S1-commons.u37	With the consent of this House at 19.30 the sitting for the next Wednesday, 27 May 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed.
