ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of the Greek Parliament Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyiannis to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u2	MEP SYRIZA Mr.ZANNA submits a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the Municipal Committee of Education (LP) of the Municipality of Katerini calls for the coverage of the operational - armaments needs of newly established municipal schools. MEP SYRIZA Mr Alexandros Mikopoulou submits a report to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance according to which the Mayor of Zagora - Moresi is requesting an extension of the deadline for subjecting the debts to OTAs and their legal entities to OTAs. Parliamentarian SYRIZA Mr Michael Kritsotakis reports to the Ministry of Finance that the Association of Tax Professionals of Heraklion (FOD) sets out the problems created by the existing provisions on taxation of agricultural income and proposes in particular for tax year 2014 statements that the solution to substantiate the proprietaryity per acre of land on the basis of the alleged land rents in force in the financial year 2013 should apply. MEP SYRIZA Mr.ZANNA submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that the Municipal Committee of Education (LP) of the Municipality of Katerini calls for the coverage of the operational needs of newly established municipal schools in the Municipality of Katerini. MP SYRIZA Mr. Hussein Zabeck submits a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the School Escape of the 14th Minority School of Centauri highlights the need to operate a Second Opportunity Department in the Centauri settlement of the Municipality of Mykes, Xanthi Prefecture. Parliamentary of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Placiotakis presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Vice Mayor of the Lassithi Plateau is requesting the immediate payment of compensation to the affected producers following the recent disasters in the agricultural crops of the municipality. Parliamentary of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Koukodimos presents a report to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Health, according to which the Association of Pensioners of the Free Professionals Association of Pierres sets out a number of issues relating to the everyday life and the difficulties faced by their union members. The Member of the New Democracy, George Vlachos, shall submit a report to the Ministry of Health that Mayor Pickermios expresses his concern at the submissiveness of the Rafina Health Centre following the decisions of the Governor of the 1st YEI. The MP from Potami Mr Spyros Danellis reports to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism that the Heraklion Chamber of Crete points out the need to address the problems of Heraklion's commercial port and calls for its uninterrupted operation. The Members of the Communist Party of Greece etc. Stavros Tassos, Diamantos Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis state a reference to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Mayor of Ikaria presents a letter on the pollution caused by the operation of the PPC plant in Agios Kryrikos, requesting immediate measures to protect the health and quality of life of the inhabitants of the island. MEP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos submits a report to the Ministry of Health, according to which a lawyer denounces, for a long time, the non-repayability and restoration of the magnetic tomography machine in the public hospital of Agrinio, pointing out that the medical centre held by a relative of a former government MP is taking advantage of the situation. MP PASOK Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou submits a newspaper (reference) to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, which for the first time incriminates the unreasonable use of pesticides in the increasing cases of cancer and other serious diseases affecting people of all ages in Pentamodi Meleviziou, but also in dozens of villages in Crete. MEP SYRIZA Mr Panagiotis Skouriakos submits a report to the Ministries of Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Rehabilitation Association of Property Owners highlights the property problem in the area of Agios Andreas, in the municipal community of the Municipality of Marathon. MEP SYRIZA Mr.ZANNA submits a petition to the Ministry of Finance that a citizen is required to provide clarification on the existing rules of disharmony created in the taxation of individuals with income only from interest on deposits. Parliamentarians SYRIZA Ladies Chrysolula Kafantaris and Efforts (Foso) Karasarlidou report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism according to which residents of the Municipality of Cholargos express their protest at the granting of permits for the installation of mobile antennas, which are located at a minimum distance from children's stations, playgrounds and public schools of the Municipality of Papagos - Holargos. MP and Vice-President of Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, reporting to the ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Environment and Energy, according to which residents of the Municipality of Cholargos say that they may be seriously damaged by their exposure to the electromagnetic radiation of mobile antennas installed in a resident area and applicants for the removal of such antennas. The Members of the Communist Party of Greece etc. Stavros Tassos, Diamantos Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis present a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which the City Council of Ikaria, acting unanimously, calls for the renewal of the contracts of school cleaners and the financing of this operation until their legalisation. Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos presents a report to the Ministry of Social Security and Social Solidarity, according to which a citizen presents proposals for the adoption and implementation of programmes aimed at the unemployed and disabled. PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou reports to the Ministry of Finance that the Panhellenic Federation of Postal Associations expresses its displeasure about the unfavourable developments created by the decision of the Deputy Minister of Finance, which converts the ELTA from a legal person private law business to a public sector agency. The Members of the Communist Party of Greece etc. Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Dramas Forest asks for funding to address its operating problems. The MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos reports to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism that the Panhellenic Federation of Postal Associations protests to change the legal framework for the operation of ELTAs. PASOK MP George Arvanitidis reports to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that the Mayor Oreokastro is requesting the removal of PPC's high voltage pillars of the Palaiokastro line. The Members of the Communist Party of Greece etc. Stavros Tassos, Diamanto Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis file a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that the Ikaria Municipal Council calls for measures to address the problem with refugees in the island border. MEP Mr Vassilis Kokalis presents a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, according to which the Management Committee of the Regional Magnesia Department of the Technical Chamber of Greece calls for the resolution of the issue of retroactive increases in the contributions of engineers. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou submits a report to the Ministry of Finance that the Association of Fiscal Liberties of Heraklion expresses its opposition to the taxation of agricultural incomes relating to the exploitation of agricultural parcels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the southern gallery of the House forty students under the Parliamentary Law at the University of Athens. We welcome them and wish them good progress and health. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Evangelos Venizelos, and the Members of his party tabled a proposal for a law on 2-6-2015: 'Representation of political formations - Amendment of electoral law - Elimination of the first party electoral premium'. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health and Social Security, and Deputy Ministers of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, tabled on 3-6-2015 a draft law: ‘Amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Greek Nationality - Incorporation into the Greek legal order of Directives 2011/98/EU on the single application procedure for citizens of third countries for a single residence and work permit in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for workers from third countries residing lawfully in a Member State and 2014/36/EU on the conditions of entry and residence of third countries on the conditions of entry and stay.’
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 238/19-5-2015 of the second question by MP Kastoria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Evangelos Diamantopoulou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the disruption of the ecological balance of Lake Orestia (Castoria) from the existence and reproduction of fur animals. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Yiannis Tsironis. Mr Diamandopoulos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, having asked a question number 959 on July 9, 2014 about the disturbance of the ecological equilibrium in the Kastoria Lake due to the release and evasion of fur animals, a kind of host in the ecosystem of the region, I am necessarily coming back because of the continuation of the problem, as no measure has been taken by the relevant bodies. According to the replies we received from the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change, as well as the Decentralised Administration of Epirus - Western Macedonia, there are ways of controlling the population of the xenon invader. In view of the fact that there are many complaints from the scientific staff of the Kastoria Aquarium, the Hellenic Ornithological Society and the Environment Agency, which note that the rapid decline in the population of coastal birds has the effect of disrupting the ecosystem, given that the problem is recognised by the Decentralised Administration of Epirus - Western Macedonia, since it is also proposed ways of dealing with the problem, given that the protection of ecological and environmental equilibrium and the preservation of the ecosystem is a priority for an area of n "Natura", the Minister asks you personally, if you intend to proceed with actions involving all the relevant bodies, the local society, in order to address the problem and to restore balance to the ecosystem of the lake and when such actions are envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulos. The Minister has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Cironi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact this case is a proof of what is a basic principle of ecology, that no one - I stress it, for no one - is allowed to disperse non-endemic species into the ecosystem. It is a basic principle of ecology, which unfortunately some people have misunderstood and created this catastrophic problem. Mink is a species that we will incorporate into the new directive on invasive alien species, which came out over the Greek Presidency. The list is being drawn up at the moment, and it is essential to have this list, because, if the species is incorporated and considered as a foreign invasive species, we will also be able to have NSRF programmes to deal with it. The measures to be taken are obviously to identify areas of establishment of the population, to see where they have been established, to record the number and population of animals, to resettle by some method and to return to the farms from which they have been released and to kill. Of course, we should - because it was not just this abundant act of activists who liberated these sixty thousand minced companies - take care of such species, in GDP, in the Environmental Impact Study, to have protection instruments and methods and by accidental evasion of such species, because the problems will arise continuously, even from accidental evasion. I hope immediately, as soon as the species enters as an invasive species, we have programs. I stress that here too there is the time-lag which we will resolve for Greece as a whole, for most regions have no management plans and of course do not have management bodies and do not have a budget, which must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. You have the floor, Mr Diamantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u9	I would also like to thank the Minister in plenary. In fact, he realizes the problem at his core. What I'm going to do to help the Ministry and the Minister is to convene a meeting in the Kastoria Prefecture of all the relevant bodies. Unfortunately, this has never been done before. In fact, they also leave the breeders' sector outside, who can also offer their experience. We will be involved in a process that will be able to promote these solutions. It really needs this framework you're talking about first. Obviously also in the timely question we are focusing on the lake, but at the moment we are talking about a second-generation situation of the minced minced minced ones, perhaps more, which have been adapted and expanded now. According to complaints from people from the rural and livestock sectors to hunting or people engaged in alternative sport, they have reached the highest level in Grevenna, in water systems. There are still complaints that they have reached the edges of the Grammos. It is something that we must in any way speed up, namely, the incorporation of the framework into our legislation, so that there can be further action. Anything you need, all the operators of the place have really understood the size of the problem and we are at your disposal to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulou. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. We're really gonna help them, we're gonna find the budget. It's not easy what we're going to do, because this species as far as I know it doesn't have enemies in Greece. It is an aggressive species, a supreme predator, it is not a simple species and of course it is a characteristic case of how human intervention can cause disastrous consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. We enter the second with number 1402/1-4-2015 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on measures to protect forests and forest land and the delay in the suspension of forest maps. The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Ioannis Tsironis. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the forest maps of the National Stock Exchange have been established by Law 2664/98. Today, seventeen years later, the process has not been completed, and the programme for training, visa and validation of forest maps is progressing very slowly. The forest maps define the institutional line under which the Greek State declares its property - property within the National Register, which makes it necessary to draw up and validate them. To date it has been completed or is at the stage of completing the training of forest maps by the end of 2015 more than 50% of the country's area. In other words, it has been entrusted to study offices, jobs have been completed, and the Greek people have paid money for about 50% of the country. Until now, maps have been posted covering 1,12% of the country since 50% and maps have been validated that only cover 0.56% of the country. The greatest delays have been observed in the Attica region, in Attica, which is also aware of the faster housing and demographic development and therefore most of the incidents of the violation or construction of natural areas. In particular, in East Attica forest maps are pending for endorsement by the Forest Service since the summer of 2010. As regards the areas considered and assigned forest maps in 2012, i.e. Drosia, Kifisia, New Penteli, etc., they have not operated the Committees for Refugees so that they can be definitively ratified. Minister, you ask yourself why the view and suspension of forest maps have been so delayed and what your Ministry intends to do to put up immediately considered maps so that they do not deprive themselves over time, due to the change of data, of obtaining these areas in a way that is undeniablely dominated forest maps, of the administrative burden of the characterisation and functioning of the Forest Resolution Committees so that they can be involved in the work of protecting and managing forest ecosystems, which is their object. What do you intend to do as Minister for the Attica region, where the project is considerably delayed, both on the visa level of forest maps and on the level of suspension and ratification? What measures does the Government intend to take to update the forest maps drawn up and regarded as being valid for n. 3889/2010 are now obsolete, as are those who for any reason have not been considered in time by the competent authorities and are therefore no longer a reliable product? What measures does the government and your Ministry intend to take to ensure that for the areas where the forest map has been uploaded - for the municipalities of Kifisia, Drosias, Physias, Pentelis, Marathonas - the appeal commissions are in place and forest maps can be ratified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Deiaras. Minister Yannis Tsironis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u15	Your Honor, you raise a matter that is chronicly pathetic. You know very well that it was a permanent position of environmental and ecological movements that the state first had to define the forest maps and the hayoids in order to safeguard public property and, of course, then become the Land register. Unfortunately, we have also started upside down in this area. The reasons for the delay, which we have found, are a lot. I would point out, for example, that there was a long pending court proceedings in the Council of State regarding the provisions of the law. Proposal for a Council Regulation (EC) amending Regulation (EC) No 3208/2003 on the definition of the forest and the forestry area, which were finally considered to be unconstitutional. Because we have always started out of the evil to farewell forests, thinking that this is how we are helping some supposed growth, which we all know in today's dramatic conditions that it never came. After all, this was all regulated in 2010. That was a dramatic delay. In addition, in 2011 all forest maps left the Forest Services and were assigned to CITIMOLOGY SA. Since then, even these few maps that had been posted have ceased to be posted. The Committees on Respect have ceased to exist, it has had for each committee to enter a private contractor, to build offices, to have the committee work, to inform the citizens. That's never happened. Today, then, we have a reality that the Forest Services are dramatically subordinated and, of course, in a very great weakness to undertake the full work, while the "KITHOLOGY S.A." is in a disharmony - that we found at least - with the forests. Because I know that the studyer should first be designated, that he should draw up the map, that he should be considered by the forest services, that this delay entails - again and again the Forest Services are in place - that the forest maps should be posted, that the offices should be created for objections, that the citizens should be informed, that photographs can be taken of what the objection is, because many citizens do not have contracts in rural areas and that, after all, the objections should be dealt with. So for this process, which is currently stuck on the gears between the Land register and the Forest Services, we are committed. In the next few days there will be a new law that will be able to reuse the Forest Services and the maps that already exist. And of course, after taking advantage of these maps, again in synergy with "CAMOLOGY S.A." - so that there is no misunderstanding that we are giving the Forest Services all the work again, because we know that they are dramatically subordinated - to be able, where they can, to speed up and, where they are not able, to enter workshops from private individuals, so that with both forces, we can speed up the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Diarah, would you like to answer for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President. We all know how important it is to have registered public property. This is very important for the protection of nature, for the protection of public property itself. We must finally find a way in this country to take those steps that need to be taken in the public interest, by limiting bureaucracy, I would say, to a large extent, and speeding up the services. There is no justification for this delay of the seventeen years of forest maps. And I'd say maybe it's not that innocent. I think there have also been political reasons. I mean, the client system worked here. Because we know that, if forest maps proceeded, some private interests would be restricted or abolished, which were private interests contrary to the law. We know that this allows a framework for the transaction of the Services with those who run each time to identify an area if it is wooded or not. If there were complete, erected forest maps, we wouldn't have had that kind of problem. We need to speed up. The government today intends, has no commitments, I think it is above these customer interests, to speed up very quickly, to find the way in which the whole country can be mapped and, of course, the forest maps have been completed within a short period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Deiaras. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u19	You raised a very unpleasant issue in your speech. Our people have a proverb. "Whoever doesn't want to ferment is sifting ten days." In fact, when I took up my duties, I had many complaints - and from the point of view of citizens, who do not want to solve the problem at all, but also from the point of view of public administration - that public officials are favoured by a declassification machine, which creates what in the Forest Services - I am sorry to say it - is called 'dadela' - that is what scientists call it - with a forest area which has or does not have forests. And of course all that blurred is favoring the client state. We know that the suspension and ratification of the maps will displease many. It's a fact. On the other hand, I think it will relieve the overwhelming majority of the Greek people of this hostage. We should finally know where there are villages that are forests, if any, because they are now in town plans, to declassify. Let the legislator come to solve the problem so that this hostage of the Greek citizen finally ceases. Furthermore, I should like to add that the European institutions, too, now require the forest maps as a priority, because they are a pillar of development. No serious private investor can come to invest in Greece if he does not know where he is going to build his investment if it is forest or not and it is all the time in this ilkystinda. So we think that the political will exists. We are forced to legislate, as I have said. This is no longer the case, because it has become a complement to old legislation, but I believe that in a very short time we will have maps and have results.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Here is the third question by MP B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the commitments made by the Government on environmental and energy issues. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. First of all, Mr President, and Minister, I would like to make a comment on the parliamentary procedure, which your Government does not follow. I tabled a written question to Mr Varoufakis on 6 March, namely, three months ago, with the contents of the question that I will be asking you later, and it has been starting to get rid of. It wasn't answered by Mr. Varoufakis. Mr Varoufakis sent us a letter saying "for your written question, the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Lafazanis will answer". Mr. Lafazanis doesn't answer either. He's taking the timely question, and then we have three postponements to discuss it. Mr. Lafazanis doesn't show up and you come in for the answer. The contents of the question I had tabled on 6 March are also related to energy issues. You don't have the power to do this. Perhaps Mr Varoufakis or Mr Lafazanis will have informed you of what you will answer. However, I would like to raise the question that I have also tabled seven written questions to Minister Lafazani, who have been unanswered for months. Is that how we're going to move on? This is Parliament - how can I say it? - the prevalence of your participation in Parliament? Among other things, for those who have not responded, you might see Mr Lafazanis and let him know that the unanswered questions concern the collective contract of employment in PPC, the Skouries, the Seville Process and many others. We shall now proceed to the point of order. As you know, on 23 February Mr Varoufakis sent an e-mail to our lenders to the institutions. I am not saying 'troika' in order not to cause a psychological problem for the government, as I heard Mr Varoufakis mentioning the institutions as a troika, as I saw Mr Kurubli on television yesterday at 'KONTRA CHANNEL' and talking about the troika. Anyway, we're actually going. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u22	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. So, Mr Varoufakis, on 23 February in the context of the implementation of the agreement signed by the Greek Government with the institutions on 20 February - three days before his e-mail, in other words, with the agreement that we stayed in the Memorandum but did not receive money, with which we stayed in the euro without the euro - he made some commitments to lenders. Among them, he made commitments for better land management, including policies related to spatial planning, land use and the finalisation of an appropriate land register. So this is my first key question, the register. You mentioned something to my colleague, Mr. Dimitras. But we here want specific answers. What timetable does your Government commit to progressing the integration procedures of the Land register? I would remind you that twenty-eight budget studies of EUR 500 million remain. I would remind you that the Commissioner for Regional Policy, Mrs Cretsu, is Romanian - what she said? He dropped the ball on the platform, went down the funding and said - he let it be transparent - that apparently the completion of the Stock Exchange will go to 2025 from 2020. So we want specific timetables. As we also need a specific timetable for the completion of the drawing-up of forest maps. We need timelines! And here I come to the chase of energy. On energy issues, Mr Varoufakis in his e-mail to our creditors, to our institutions, has committed Greece to implementing the best practices of the European Union in the field of harmonisation of the electricity and gas market. Best practices - you know - include things Mr Lafazanis considers them as red cloth, not just red line. They include, for example, the liberalisation of the retail gas market. So this commitment made by Mr Varoufakis will be implemented? It includes a different RES policy, i.e. priority for small RES energy producers. The lenders ask for privatisation of the networks of the Independent Electricity Transfer Manager, IPTO. They ask for the privatisation of the company ‘ELLENIC S.A.’. These are the best practices followed by the European Commission. That is why Mr Varoufakis has said that he is committed to making progress. I would like to ask you for specific answers. And finally, are you going to bring some law, some legislative initiative to put a class on the energy map, and when? That's for starters. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. You have also expanded to other issues, but you have raised the whole issue. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u25	It's obvious that the first part of your question, the part about who's answering, is not my responsibility. I shall reply to what is my responsibility, in this respect in the field of energy, in respect of renewables. On the other issues, really, let Mr. Lafazanis answer. I'm here to answer for what's my responsibility. As far as the register is concerned, the timetable is explicit and at least the outgoing administration, with which we have very close contact, has assured us that the 2020 timetable was and that remains. So simple, so clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u26	In writing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u27	Of course in writing. And I think you've taken it. It's in the answer I at least have, the writings you got, I think, you're being notified. If you want, I'll testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u28	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u29	The date is 2020. There's absolutely no reason to slow down. There are resources - there are 70 million - and for forest maps, and there are now, we have them. We also have a negotiation, which will end, I believe, with the European Union. At least what we were asked as Greece, we are fully satisfied and we have an optimism that the money we are entitled to for the Stock Exchange will soon be received. As far as energy is concerned, what you called 'best practices' very often in Greece is misunderstood. For example, best practice and development practice is to reduce the current value. That's why competition is supposed to work. In Greece we had this phenomenon, namely not to enter new players in the game, to be interpreted as selling part of PPC and even selling the "file". This creates oligopolistic situations and we consider them unacceptable. PPC currently, with its current function, has one of the lowest tariffs in Europe. And if it is expensive, it is not expensive because of the RES, as it has been misunderstood and said, because of oil. So the interconnection of the islands and the development of RES on the islands is a pillar to reduce the tariff, when at the moment the megawatt now costs 200 euros of oil - imported oil - while the RES could fall under 90 euros. And if these RES, as you quite rightly said, were the inhabitants themselves as partners, it is obvious that it would fall even lower. So, in these programmes, we are ahead and ready. In fact, I say to you that my own personal choice is to develop small-scale products from waste, such as waste biomass, not large biomass crops, but we are talking about our old-age farms, about our olive mills, about our pruning, that is to say, this small biomass that we have - and we have problems - which we could use and be at zero level. There is the geothermality of low enthusiasm that has never been exploited and can be well exploited in both the public and private sectors. In these areas, then, we are ahead of us right now and we are in cooperation with private individuals too. As regards the liberalisation of energy - for natural gas, Mr Lafazanis will answer you - it is not my responsibility - that at the moment in Greece we already have significant liberalisation of energy, but the private natural gas units which are paid for and even baptized RES - badly, in my humble opinion - are not placed in the system, but only on peaks. In other words, we are paying back at the moment, which will come in if Attica is at some point hot. In practice, therefore, these units do not offer the system as they are, even though they are built, even though they are funded and licensed. It's a huge issue. Finally, I should like to say that, in accordance with the new negotiations in the European Union, the energy integration of Europe is progressing rapidly. You know that. There we will have a great deal of reduction precisely in the problem of average demand peaks. Right now, if you know - you know - because of the crisis we have over-installed power in Greece. The power we have installed is over 30% of the necessary average power. The problem, of course, is those moments you need excessive current and you don't have it. This networking will be largely solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. I'm a little awkward, Mr. President. Of the ten questions contained in my topical question, one-and-a-half questions are answered and the rest go to Mr Lafazanis, but he was the one who referred the responsibility for answering Mr Tsironi. So who will we get from within Parliament? The ministers aren't coming, they're not answering the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u32	You'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u33	I shall return very nicely, Mr President. But, Mr Minister, the best practices you are talking about, of course, have a double reading. I, however, go by the book and use Mr Varoufakis' term and perspective. So how's it gonna be? I guess we should heated Mr. Varoufakis through Mr. Lafazani and Mr. Tsironi? A little dead end again. I also asked you in legislation what you will do in particular. You said about geothermality. Let me tell you about Nisserro. You're going to Nishro, which is what? It's a volcano that came out of the sea, it's the paradise of geothermality. In 1850, the Nissyrians and the Dodecanese and the other Greeks used the geothermal fields. You see a stunning hotel in 1880 next to Mandraki, that went a century and a half ago and took baths and spas, the rich excursioners, and today the hot water coming out of the sand poured into the sea and the buildings abandoned. Here's a glorious field for this government to tell us that I've taken this into account and I'm not generally talking about geothermality, but I'm going to bring a law on this date with this content. In other words, we expect concrete proposals. As far as the register is concerned, there is the question of the reserves in the register. The company itself calculates EUR 3 million as a loss from the transfer of the Stock Exchange to the Bank of Greece in the special account. Why? For they have been denounced in order to free money, time-consuming deposits. This damage of EUR 3 million or not, as far as the register is concerned, is concerned, as is the case with CSR itself. Has he announced?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u34	It is out of question, although it is an interesting matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u35	I know, but I'm trying to find a clue to get an answer, not just get general. As far as forest maps are concerned, it is a very important matter, you are absolutely right. We started backwards, first the Land register, then the forest maps. But we already have considered forest maps for the following areas: Messinia, Laconia, Evia, Pieria, Thessaloniki, Halkidiki. The forest maps are, necessarily or not, leveraging the economic development of these regions. Will they be posted? Will they be cancelled? I see Mr. Apostolos disagrees with what I'm saying. Isn't it an economic growth lever to know where you're building and where you're not building? Before the Minister said: How are you going to invest, if you don't know if it's forest this or not? In any case, I would like to say that I am sorry that you cannot answer us for the energy, gas, the French NOME model, as far as electricity is concerned, for what I have asked you about. I hope at least that we have some specific answers for what I have told you about the resources available to the register. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u36	Come on, Minister, you have the floor on Mr Amyras' question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u37	First of all, I did not understand the 'ten-a-half' ratio, because I believe that only half did I not respond, namely, the liberalisation of natural gas. I think my answer energetically covered all your questions as regards liberalisation. Because at the moment there is liberation, no one is preventing any businessmen from entering the system and offering energy. So I do not understand why liberation is the sale of PPC or the fragmentation of PPC. I do not agree with that logic, I have made it quite clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u38	Me neither.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u39	So, as far as the liberalisation of energy is concerned, I am one of the people I have taken the lead in informing the citizens how they can produce energy on their own. I would also like to refer to a very important issue, which no one touches on. It is that energy generation in large urban centres is stuck with a number of minor malfunctions, such as the fragmentation of ownership, the lack of codecision where there is horizontal ownership - it is a cloudy institutional framework for codecision - and the fact that in most of the apartments, they are mainly tenants and not owners who would benefit if they made an investment in renewable energy sources. This is a legislative solution and we will do so if we say we put the game of energy production and all the major urban centres and not just the NATURA regions. I could expand very much on these objects and I think that a debate should be held, because in energy we have huge potential as a country. Whether natural gas is released or not - the only point for which at the moment I am not ready to answer - is really a matter. I'll go back to the register now. The estimates you read for the 3 million were before the action took place. There's not that number. And there is no reason for the simple reason that the banks from which - and I followed the procedure, because I am the Minister responsible - had agreed not to pay these brakes. We didn't pay those pendants. After all, Mr Mardas had committed himself, if there is a penalty, to charge them to the recipient, namely the Bank of Greece. I would like to say in addition, without having seen the contracts with the Bank of Greece in detail, that while the deadlines for private banks were three months, six months, annually, at the moment in the Bank of Greece there is a general logic, if I remember correctly, a 15-day warning for disbursements, which is particularly favourable to any company, for anyone who knows what "I have put my money in a deadline". So I don't see what the Register has done in any way at the moment to get the money to the Bank of Greece instead of to another private bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister and Mr Amyras. The sixth question will be discussed under number 266/26-5-2015 of the First Cycle of the MP Aetolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the progress of the public-private partnerships (PPC) on waste management. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Yiannis Tsironis. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u41	Minister, it is well known that Greece is classified in the last positions among the European Union countries in the field of urban waste treatment. As a result, in many regions of the country waste is driven to Uncontrolled Disposal Areas (CRAs), as it is said, with obvious consequences for the environment, public health, agriculture and tourism. The fine imposed on Greece by the European Union and the European Court of Justice for not dealing with waste management makes it even more imperative to promote immediate solutions. In order to resolve the problem, regions and FOSDA, as reported, which are the primary authorities responsible for the temporary storage, transhipment, recovery and disposal of solid waste, have launched public international tenders, using the institution of the PPPs, of which contractors have already been appointed. In most cases, funding procedures - ESDP, banks, private capital - have been completed and projects are expected to be symbolised for the start of construction. After that, will the Minister ask: Firstly, at what stage are the PPPs for waste management, what is the Government's position on projects, what is the European Commission's position on project progress, as well as on the allocation of the relevant subsidies? Is there a time risk of loss of subsidies? Secondly, what stage is the cessation of operation and restoration of CSRs operating or operating and what is the overall planning - amount of investment, benefits, jobs - of the Government for waste management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos. Before I give the floor to the Minister to answer, I want us to welcome the Lion's children from the beautiful Borodos of Chios. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Braddon Chios, with beautiful Easter customs. The House welcomes them and wishes them health and all good. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. I think it could not be the happiest time to answer your question when we only posted the new national waste management plan two days ago. You are quite right that with the state's heavy responsibilities in previous years we have reached a dramatic deadlock and, of course, these fines that have now been awarded definitively and irrevocably to the detriment of our country. Of course, it can be imagined that these large projects you are talking about and which are currently - the most mature - are in western Macedonia, the Peloponnese, the Serres, Elias, Epirus and Alexandroupolis - to a lesser extent - but also some others, which have not yet been auctioned, could be the solution. The new plan calls for a review of these projects and I mention very briefly why. Firstly, they have too much increased investment costs in relation to a contractual project. We are talking about investment costs, which in many cases exceed EUR 250 to 400 per tonne of capacity. We have strangely - and I do not know why Greece should always be on these issues wronged - excessive bank requirements. When in other countries such as Britain they have 3% and 4% interest rate, in Greece we have 8% and 9%. We finally have a very heavy burden on the public, and we are costing the public from EUR 65 to EUR 80 per tonne, when, at the moment, the respective local systems operate are no more than EUR 36 per tonne. We're talking twice the cost. And in order for the citizens, who are watching - and writing in the Minutes - to understand what it means to a small municipality that produces - to call it round - ten thousand tons of waste? While he would have to pay for the mixed, about 360,000 a year, this simple municipality, with the new system, will be asked to pay 650,000-900,000 a year. But what's the worst? We are talking about the guaranteed quantities. In other words, if this municipality prepares and updates citizens and produces no waste, it will continue for the next twenty-eight years - and sum up this figure at the age of our children to see what it means to be twenty-eight years - to pay these 650,000-900,000 even - as you said - when a city itself operates today, and essentially in this HR, it pays a fine of 180,000 and recklessly, saying that it cannot pay such a large fine. So at the same time that he cannot pay 160,000-80 times two fines, will we ask him to pay 650,000-900,000 for the same garbage? I'm afraid they'll end up in dumps again. In our own national planning all of this is overthrown, because we are now talking about much smaller units. Features for Elijah I will tell you that with the seventeen million that the public would put through the NSRF and which are not lost - it is untrue that they are lost, that there is no such issue, and that the private person would put one twenty-fifth by lending, which is certainly moving to the public - we can wonderfully build a unit of forty thousand tonnes, which at the moment could operate with the figures I said before, with these 32 to 36 euros of tuna. And that's for the interim solution. In other words, we are not talking about whether the citizens really are losing their waste. And we're gonna run a road race to let down the waste. They're mature - and don't tell you we're going to dilut waste - and we've got the tools in the new ECHR for that. I'm just finishing up - so I don't get tired of any more - of the HSHs we've received. Despite the fact that I could throw the ball into the previous administration and say it's something we can't do anything, we did. And we made an intervention to Mrs Cretsu with the following points: First of all, to interpret the fine differently and not only for the CIDs, who have been fully restored, but also to those who are in recovery. From there we will actually have a saving of about six million in the fine. We have asked - and hadn't done so far - for the small islands to be excluded. So, today we pay a fine of EUR 80,000 in the six months for Gadus of ninety-eight inhabitants, for the Antikythera of the forty-four inhabitants, for Heraklion of one hundred fifty inhabitants, for the Pineapple of two hundred and fifty-six inhabitants, for Marathaki of the ninety-seven inhabitants? The list is long. Because we're talking about twenty of a little HR who's nothing, the vice mayor takes the trash to his hand and there's no wastewater at all. And that is where we pay the same fine we pay, say, for the Tower or for any other area and no one did anything about it. When we told Mrs. Kretshu, she looked at us with swept eyes. Something had to be done about these areas. What are they waiting for? Complete management for a hundred people? Also, a very important issue is the extension of projects in 2016, which we are fighting as a government. But the most important thing, which the European Commission and the Committee on Petitions have already accepted, is Parliament's decision, is that the fine money should come back to Greece and be reinvested in recovery projects. It's predictable that no one fought for it. We are fighting it and we are optimistic because we have every right to do so. That means eventually that money won't leave the country. So for a problem we had, I think we did what a government could do in three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u45	Minister, Greece once again, as I said before, pays high fines for illegal landfills because it cannot protect the environment and health. The trash is stacked in the streets. There is a risk to public health. Citizens are indignant and indignant with their right to do so. The garbage is transported from the Peloponnese to my constituency, Istanbul - first in Nafpatto, today in Vonica. The conclusions of yours. The European Court of Justice already has many fines for mismanagement of waste, as you have said. But, Minister, fines continue today. Let us not forget that the current government is a continuation of the previous governments. Since 02-06-2015, the country pays a single sum of about 11 million, as well as every sixteen other fourteen million as a fine for the three hundred ninety-six CIDs, as you said, but you have not done any action in this direction. The municipalities shall be charged every six months with the sums of eighty and ninety thousand euros for each of these sites located in their area. In particular, for the Attica region, of the eighteen CIDs mentioned in the judgment of the European Court of Justice, only four were restored, while only three CIDs remain active. The management of waste through PPP appears to be the most advantageous solution for the public sector. But here you, Minister, are deaf. Through the institution of the PPPs public and private bodies, we are working together and exploiting Community funds, and at a time when there is an economic crisis, I think it is perhaps a one-way road. The public, of course, maintains supervision of the projects, while the know-how and experience of private individuals in the construction of major development projects is exploited. What's the matter? For the benefit of the public, of course. Today, Minister, competitions have already been conducted and contractors have emerged for PPP waste management projects. The financing procedures in many cases have already been promoted and the projects are ready to begin. But, Minister, all these competitions are in the air. In fact, as I said before, when a country has no money, the solution is cofinanced projects. Why don't you use them? Otherwise, where will you get money? What are the options? What are you gonna do? You didn't tell us. What about European funds? They'll be lost because of the frugality of the government. The Peloponnese, Minister, has already received EUR 60,000 000 from the European Union. The remaining 17,000 euros are Greek public, and the EUR 20,000 are private individuals. And while the Ministry had given permission, you come and you remove them. That's why we're waiting for your own initiatives. Because everything's in red. Citizens are at risk, garbage is on the road, and public health is at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I didn't include it in my first talk because I thought it was familiar. Already at the moment, in the unfavourable scenario, in just three months we have reduced the fine by at least 4,000,000 euros. To tell you, 3,880,000 out of 14,000. And that's the unfavourable scenario. Because by the end of the month when we are going to report to the European Union on what we have closed, my services estimate that it can be reduced by about EUR 1 000 000, and we will pay only 9 920,000. I mentioned before that we are fighting for this money, the 9,920,000, to be rewarded for our own country, but I will not say it again. I'll say something political. You mentioned - and of course administratively it is true - that we are a follow-up to the previous governments and that is why we are responsible for what has happened. But I will say that politically we are not the continuation of the previous governments. We are not and we do not want to be the continuity and I could consider it particularly insulting to my individual to be a continuation of this regime that threw Greece on the rocks. As far as lost money is concerned, I am reading this specific passage from the letter from the European Commission of 20 March 2015 after the meeting in Athens on 25 February, which was done precisely for fines. ‘It is recognised that the type of contract for the construction and operation of the waste management infrastructure - PPP or other - is the responsibility of the Greek authorities’. No one tells us that if we don't do PPP, we're gonna lose the money. And I am actually going back to the point, and the essence is what I said before, that we are reviewing the projects. We are open to every proposal and private businessman, but I would like to stress the following: undertakings that our citizens will give EUR 65 to 100 tonne for the next twenty-eight years, if you say a solution, we will join together with your citizens from whatever region you have elected, to explain to them what that means for their pockets, to commit to the next twenty-eight years that they will have to pay this money. We say that we need to get into the circular economy, which is the future throughout the planet today, stop producing waste, stop imagining this resource, which at the moment is worth between 80 and 900 euros tone. So we're gonna pay and give a businessman 65 to 100 euros why? To get our property and take advantage of it, when we can use it as monks as in dozens of small businesses? I mentioned Elijah's example. I could mention any other example that proves that the light infrastructure projects, which we prefer, can be used directly, the next two-month, quarterly, as a temporary solution, but the exact same machinery, the same projects are in the final solution. And what's the difference? That in the final solution that has a default on the source, our asset has a greater value, is cleaner. A bottle of plastic that is recycled through a mixture has less commercial value today. That's all the difference. Otherwise, the CSR and the composter - so as not to go into other details and I am tired and late in the House - are precisely the same machinery that will work in both the temporary and final solution. We are therefore not asking any municipalities to bear any costs. On the contrary, we give the municipalities the tools and the flexibility to make use of their citizens' assets and money to return to the public. If you study the new national plan, I am absolutely convinced that you too will become his champion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to say something to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u50	There's no right to tritology. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u51	I want to tell the Minister to come to Vonica and Nafpatto, where the garbage was transferred and to tell them there, since you said you were not a continuation of the previous government. You are always responsible for what is happening today, because we are asking for a solution and for initiatives. Why, bad lies, public health is in danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u52	It's a great pleasure to join you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Davakis and Mr Nikolaos Moraitis have asked a timely question on the very same subject. In accordance with Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure, time-limited questions on the same subject are discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in relation to the time of their speech. Questions will be developed along with the same rights. One is going to start the first one and then the other one will be seconded and discussed together, Mr Moraite and Mr Davakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u54	However, our question may be on the same subject, but it is in a different spirit and climate. It's different things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u55	But the Communist Party is different and historic. I don't contract. If you don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u56	We will be asking you, because we are putting issues in general and beyond this issue, to develop our question separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u57	All right, I just said it because the timely questions I see here, the wording is exactly the same, as far as the wording is concerned. If you want to be discussed separately, let it be discussed separately. Did you, Mr Davaki, have you not objected to the process being confused and discussed together?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u58	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u59	Do you want them to go discretely, Mr. Moraite?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u60	They should be discussed separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u61	Okay. Minister, you asked the question, I begged, too, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u62	No problem. My answer would cover both colleagues, but let them be separately. I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u63	The honourable Member insists. It's over. The first question under number 273/26-5-2015 will be discussed in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on measures to prevent bluetongue from spreading into the country's livestock. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. On the basis of the re-exported parliamentary intervention, the recently notified Ministry's decision on 6 May 2015 that the introduction of approved vaccines to deal with serotype 4, of a disease which had been afflicted and which had caused the loss of a large part of our livestock in the country. This initiative and decision I had taken last year since the predecessor of the Minister, Mr Koukoulopoulos, who mentioned the bluetongue vaccine, but said he was at the research stage from these research centres. In any case, we have reached about a year later to say that the vaccine can now be given by the state to the Greek farmer, who is at present at risk again, because of the upcoming climate, to lose part of his livestock. The question - I think that we may be at the same wavelength as the colleague of the Communist Party - has one, I would say, broader basis at the moment. Its basis is: what is the state planning, the Ministry of Rural Development, for the fight against disease? What is the design to find the Ministry's inspiring and executive potential next to the Greek farmer, who is constantly washed by various aspects and failures of the state? And what is it, in any case, your broader planning so that all of this grid, which is called the 'Agricultural and Veterinary Directorate' of our country's regional units, can be effectively strengthened, so that cases such as bluetongue cease to be huge issues and there is no need for them to come to Parliament? Unfortunately, the veterinary directorates and the agricultural directorates of the country are also seated. There's no staff. You're going to tell me: have you now seen this? No, we didn't see it now. In the last fifteen, twenty years we have been constantly saying this in this Chamber and in order to hire cleaners and ERT employees, it will be appropriate to hire no veterinarian, so that the farmer and the farmer in the Greek region cease to be in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Allow me, Minister, to make a little announcement to welcome students and students. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having participated in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and a teacher from the Standard Experimental Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them and wishes them health and progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u66	My dear colleague, first of all, we are not putting groups of workers into controversy, for the simple reason that the right to work is an obligation of the state to all the working class. From there on, with reference to your question, I would say that there is indeed a whole plan in the livestock sector, in particular to deal with zoonoses, which actually caused great damage last year and destroyed a large part of livestock. We held a meeting on March 2, 2015 to see how we will deal with the next year. Of course, there was a prior investigation, a serological study to see whether or not it is necessary to take an vaccine or whether we should continue the tactics that existed in previous years. There, then, really, following a recommendation from the competent Directorate-General of our Ministry, we have allowed the introduction from 28-4-2015 of approved vaccines to deal with bluetongue, serotype 4 specifically. Therefore, the aim of introduction and implementation was to prevent a possible new epizootic disease, in fear of the weather and because it had not been addressed radically last year, if problems were to arise. Until now no case of bluetongue has been detected throughout Greece. As far as the products we have allowed them to be imported are indeed products which have passed through the approval of the Medicines Agency. Their costs are, for a single dose or two dose, approximately 1 to 1.20 euros. The agreement we have made with farmers is for them to bear the cost of the vaccine and we will, for our part, take the cost of vaccination, either through those who call breeders who are registered in this register or, of course, if there are no such veterinarians, by the state veterinarians. I repeat again that the cost of vaccination is the cost covered by the Ministry itself. Because you have also referred to programme funding issues, there have been loose ends since last year. A joint ministerial decision is already under way, which will cover the outstandings of 2014 and a part relating to the beginning of 2015. As regards the payment of compensation to your county, the Laconia Law, in 2014, has been paid about EUR 22,000 for the purchase of insect repellents. I must stress that no animal in Laconia was killed in 2014. There has been no request for compensation for farmers, so, as I have said before, there has been no treatment in this direction in Laconia. But we believe that the Laconia farmers will respond to this effort so that we do not have a problem. However, we always hope that by using the vaccine there will be no case throughout Greece. I think that is the most important thing to tackle this disease. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u67	Minister, for Parliament's information too, has farmers themselves always borne the cost of the vaccine?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u68	In our consultation with their livestock organizations we said, we agreed that "you will bear the cost of the vaccine...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u69	And we're in vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u70	...and we, for our part, will bear the costs associated with vaccination."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u71	Well, it used to be free.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u72	That's why I asked. Mr. Davakis, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u73	The vaccine of this serotype for the first time applies to animal production. In any case, what I would first like to answer to the Minister, what he said is that there is no case until now, is that there is not any case, but we are still in an early June in climate conditions not so much June, however spring. So you understand that prevent is better healing at this stage. However, what I have to say on the central basis of what the Minister said is that it is possible for our farmers to bear the cost of the vaccine and vaccination, as you said, the agency. But what service, Minister? I can tell you that the Laconia Prefecture serves five veterinarians - three in Sparta, one in Skala and one in Molaus - with what this means to address the issue you said. The services may theoretically give you some notes to tell us here, but the reality, the deed, is different. We are heard and heard by the service actors to whom you are leading, and your predecessors are also in charge. Don't think that right now I'm telling you something to trespass you. This is happening in recent years, decades now, as we have said. You realize that Laconia Veterinary Service has been sat down. On the other hand, there was also a bill from the Ministry of Finance restricting travellers' expenses within the territory. More than a hundred miles [60 km] compensates for their movements. Regions, such as the Laconia Prefecture, do not have a maximum of sixty kilometers and all service actors are rebellious. I'm going on about the other thing. We are talking about animal production in a country which imports 80% -85% of the meat required, which it has to provide. If this policy continues, I fear that we will import 100% of the meat. We must support the Greek farmer and support him with a different, wretched policy, which will stand alongside him. So I'm coming back. We have six slaughterhouses in the Laconia Prefecture and a farmer in Mani, for example, in my special homeland, to go from Areopoli to the private slaughterhouse in Sparta and go back, wants a hundred twenty kilometers to control the animal by the veterinarian in the private slaughterhouse and then proceed to the slaughter. You understand that these are inhibiting factors for any animal production, for anyone who wants to sit on livestock farming. We must not continue this process. Plus, bluetongue is coming, Mr President. Our veterinarians are taking other methods, which I do not want to mention at this time, in order to get 30 euros compensation for our farmers. These are issues that we need to look at in a different way. I understand the problems and the difficult political situation in the country - we will see them this afternoon. However, in addition to the difficulties and all of them, which make up the present political climate, what concerns me and everyone separately in this Chamber, it is how the farmer feels on a mountainous hill, the Greek farmer and all those who are currently raising up on their shoulders of production. I shall close, Mr President, with what the Minister said about vaccination. Who will say that this animal is healthy? He'll tell the vet, who to go to the mantle today will have a movement problem. This veterinarian does not exist, because others are retired, and others are not in the vets, which have been closed down. You must reconstitute the breeder's institution that you mentioned. It shouldn't be on the paper. These are issues that you need to see. Take a tour, see how many vets today operate throughout the country - do you know how much, Minister? - when we ask the Greek producer to stay in his place to produce certain productions. We can talk for hours, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u74	You have another tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u75	You must understand that at the moment, at the limit point where we are, we must look at the Greek region. We keep saying it in this Chamber. The walls are tired of hearing us! But we must do it with deeds and not with words. That is what we are asking: action, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Minister, you have the floor. You have experience and knowledge. Mr. Davakis raised interesting issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u77	Mr Davaki, I do not want to disappoint you, but all you have described concerns the governments, which, over the past few years, have completely left the primary area, particularly our livestock farming, to a complete abandonment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u78	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u79	I would agree with you that there is indeed a subscribing to veterinary services, which we have seen. That is why with regard to our original planning, which said that the Ministry itself must make mass vaccination through its services, we cannot do so. We don't have the necessary staffing, because there's a weakness, because we don't have veterinary officers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, may I have a break?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u81	But look. We who were opposed to the breeder's institution, are today forced to do so. We are moving directly towards the implementation of this institution, so that we can serve the veterinary world. I tell you that the majority of both workers in the field and in general veterinarians are against this institution. But we can't do any different. We have already asked the services to send us what needs they have through programs, as we cannot recruit the public, you understand that. You have committed us in such a way that we really cannot. In particular, in an area such as that of livestock farming, a support is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u82	To the cleaners and the ERT you knew what to do! I don't plunder, but you're telling me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u83	Please do not confuse them with the needs, which are indeed very great, regarding the services of veterinary surgeons. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u84	Two vets, can't you take?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u85	Please, Mr. Davaki, don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u86	From there on, I repeat that for us in particular livestock farming is the area for which we are committed and will do a lot and you will see them. In particular, with regard to the large part of aid management, where we are making a great effort on the management plans and on the eligible areas. It will be an innovation in this particular problem, so that we can respond definitively. But I'll see you when the time comes. However, our concern, more than yours, Mr Davaki, is given to support this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u87	Why more, Mr. Davaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister needs to see that we have come here to help each other, not to face up to politically speaking for farmers. Vaccination accepts the healthy animal. Who will certify that the animal is healthy? The vet. Therefore, you must strengthen, serve the services with veterinarians, as you can, in any institutional way you can. Secondly, you must see, in particular, as the Minister responsible, Mr Apostolos, the bill of the Ministry of Finance on the costs of travellers inside and outside the territory. It is forbidden for any veterinarian to take the service car - because it is forbidden to move in their own cars - and, for example, to go from Sparta to Naples or Mani to check or inoculate animals. You realise that everything is theoretical, if there is and continues this particular provision of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u90	The Minister will see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u91	You must intervene on the question of the order of the Ministry of Finance, Minister. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u92	The Minister will see. He has knowledge and experience. These are sensitive issues, such as lack of staff and will be seen by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, can my question then be discussed on this subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Moraite, we'll follow the show now. Because of the similarity I would precede it, but the question of Mr Arvanitis's presence will now be discussed. I don't want to get wrong. We'll keep the order. So now we will discuss the second question, number 260/25-5-2015, first question from the Achaea MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Michael Arvanitis, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the inability of Achaia's fruit producers to sell their products. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Here, Mr Arvanitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Today is likely, Mr President, to mark the beginning of rapid developments, serious developments for the fate of the people and the nation. Crisis is on top of her peak. This artificial crisis is at the ghetto. He can't go any further. Elections are ante portas. We all listen, we all learn, we're all justly likely to. Here too - let us say - that we have a duty of parliamentary control on major issues, as the previous one that Mr Davas has successfully developed, but perhaps also a minor one, in view of the climate in which it is held. And in view of this climate prisoner, the question arises which minister can answer responsibly, answer clearly and clearly, but only with ambiguity - and it will not be wrong - because there are no more promises here. There is a precedent from the other governments that I see now, as far as primary production is concerned. After entering Parliament, the Golden Dawn put it and put it as the main issue for just one reason, at the moment of crisis, we should have self-sufficiency. Our primary production on both the livestock side and the fishing side and on the agricultural side lies only in - I could say - a paralyzed situation. Amateurs are all done. Only some young people have the honor of going to their villages and really looking to develop their production. On this point I would like to say that the fruit producers - and in particular my area in Achaea - who have fields and orchards that do not have access to roads cannot sell their products. If they have road access, they can come to the edge of their property, their own property and there to sell them. If they don't have, they should either give them to the robber the messenger or have a fine or let them rot. I don't know exactly what they should do. We have a recent example in Achaea, namely the Desperate, and I will say the man's name. It is called Ioannis Roofagalis, a member of a family, unemployed, but has some land with fruit. He took them, put them in his farmhouse and went to the Deacon's square and sold them. He's got a 5,000 euros fine! And we have the market to orchestrate literally and with fruit and vegetables. We see pale-coloured ones selling from pin to fruit and vegetables or anything else that they don't bother, nobody minds. In addition, we also have the ban imposed on us by our Europe's bosses to Russia. That's another blow! That is why I regard today as an extremely critical day and a starting point for rapid political developments. It should therefore be the government and the Prime Minister in particular to stand up to it as Greek and make the right decision against those who are an international criminal organisation and listen to the name "IMF" and "German government". I have nothing more to say. I would just like to ask the following question: does the Minister intend to take some measures so that these people can sell - they will now rot their fruits - on some road without accepting fines? That's the point. People don't commit any crime. The question is to sell their fruit without the middleman intermittent. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr Arvanitis. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u97	Colleague, the Prime Minister with the popular consensus and support manages our country's issues in such a way that you can be sure that today will be an important day for Greek society, for the whole of our country. As regards your phrase that we are amateurly dealing with the problems of the primary sector, I assure you that we have knowledge, but also documentation and always through specific design. However, you realise that such conditions and the crisis we face, which even the smallest planning wants financial support. In view of the circumstances, then, we believe that tomorrow, tomorrow, we will be able to enter this course called the "productive reconstruction of the country" and through the whole design and views and positions we have, you will see that the primary sector will be the main sector, the most important tool for the country's productive reconstruction. And I come to your question. Look at that. In the fruit and vegetable sector, our Ministry's policy is implemented through the fruit and vegetable producer organisations, which are created at the initiative of the producers themselves and deal with all the issues. They have to deal with all issues, from production to consumption. That is why we are already making progress as far as possible in establishing a new framework for cooperation in the field, giving very great weight to the producer groups, which Union legislation itself supports, so that they can respond. I'm not going to go into details of what we're targeting for each team. What I want to say to you is that, in particular, in the Achaea regional unit, there are already two good, important producer groups, which, according to my information, have reached through the marketing procedures for fresh table fruit, particularly grapes - the area where we have the Corinthian raisin, the sultanine - to have a production process exceeding EUR 1,600 000. In other words, this activity in the region is very important. We therefore aim to create producer groups in all regions in order to promote their products. From there on, there is indeed a problem with regard to outdoor popular markets. At the moment, the legislative framework has a problem. There has already been a legislative initiative on the people's markets, which has solved, in particular, the problem you have raised. However, we believe that a more comprehensive regulation is needed on the large part of the people's markets, for which we are preparing a bill on this subject. Of course, when we get into the process that I told you before, we will also unfold our political intervention in this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u98	Mr Arvanitis also raised an over-stressing approach to the individual disposal of products in local communities. Mr Arvanitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go back to this particular issue and to the extermination of fines, Minister, but I believe that every municipality responsible could simply give a provisional producer note so that these people can get their bread. That is all I wanted to say on the matter. Nothing else. I would, however, like to address myself to the major issue of primary production, which I repeat is a matter of purely self-sufficiency, because we do not know what is awaiting us at all times, what is being prepared by the loan sharks who control the wars, what is being prepared by our 'friends' neighbours. And I don't exclude anyone, from Eddie Rama to - I do the arch - to Schizophrenic Gruevski, the Bulgarians - they opened their appetite for Skopje now - and of course the duo the notorious Erdogan - Davoglou. We must have self-sufficiency so that we can live. We have the most perfect products or perfect products. We can produce celery until we have cattle and we can have self-sufficiency. However, we have reached the point of introducing and reaching, as Mr Davakis said, up to 100%. Even the previous governments - and especially the previous one - did not deal with this issue, because it had other major issues for it to deal with! What do you mean? How he's gonna suck off the poor man's blood to pay for the international criminal organization called the IMF and the German power. That was the one concern. Her other concern was that she would wipe out in any illegal way either unambiguously or subtlely the country's third legitimate political power called Golden Dawn, with slanderings, armed actions for extremisms, imprisonment, murders of our members, slums, and a thousand two others. Incidentally, I would like to say that it honours the Minister of State that he has accepted parliamentary control, while other colleagues are sending us shameful notes and tell us that we do not have the right to exercise parliamentary control, because this is contrary to constitutional and parliamentary institutions. And I ask them from this Step. What are these constitutional institutions and parliamentarians opposed to exercising parliamentary control over the third lawful political party? What are their ministries? Are they pricks? I have also recently received a note of that kind. Things unthinkable! And from whom? Of these, who - because they follow the example of the previous government - violated fiercely the basic provisions of the Constitution, violated the Rules of the Parliament, violated the law, executive power intervened unresolvedly - and Mr. Voutsis said so, since that Step somewhat mildly before SYRIZA became government. And it is honorable that he said so, that they are working on the destruction of the Golden Dawn. How, then, is it possible to deal with primary production? Another was the concern of the previous government! And I do not think that the present government is out of control, which even with its silence, by omission and by some of its purchasers, who, when they had the opportunity, did not cease to declare us arbitrarily and as judges of the Middle Ages a 'criminal organisation'. Where will that go, Mr President? And I particularly address you, who I know you are honorable, I know that you have legal knowledge and I know that you have realised this crime, which is being committed against the Golden Dawn. That is what I wanted to say in general, and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr Arvanitis. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u101	Only two words, Mr. President. Our national planning for the primary sector aims not only to increase the competitiveness of agricultural products but above all to cover the adequacy that we really need, let alone when we have a huge deficit in the commercial balance of agricultural products, which exceeds EUR 2.5 billion. These are mainly animal production products, which is why we will, in particular, be more effective on the part of the livestock farm, because the country in question really needs it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving on to the third with number 254/22-5-2015, a top-stage question from the Senate MP Mr.Alexandros Hadjimitriou to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the proportion of the distribution of pastures throughout the country. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Hatzitiriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Following on from all the previous colleagues, who, in fact, have made excellent contributions on the issue of the primary sector, I too take the opportunity to say two words before I develop my question. For some reason it seems that the primary sector has not just been abandoned but has betrayed itself and I do not know who's in the hands of. I am trying to understand through my participation in the Greek Parliament, because, while we are all saying the right thing, we cannot lead him where we need to. Minister, it has disturbed the ranks of Greek farmers in the draft joint ministerial decision, which determines the proportion of the distribution of pastures. I'm not going to bother reading the question again from the start. You know her. It has to do with the distribution ratio in our country. There is containment and reduction of pastures and additional land has not been recorded. This, of course, is not your responsibility, but the responsibility of the previous government, so that there are a lot of land being reduced as grassland in our country. This is, of course, a landing for your government that is too difficult. There are fourteen million acres of eligible pasture and, of course, they do not reach for the needs of our farmers. But you, as a government, are called upon to deal with this problem. You didn't create it, but you're definitely calling on to handle it. This means that there is no proper distribution between the regions of our country and especially between the areas with intensive livestock farming, such as the Region of Central Macedonia and Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, where the area is dramatically reduced and the level of subsidies as well. I shall mention a typical example. In central Macedonia, every 100 sheep account for 48.8 acres. In my constituency, which is mostly livestock, in the constituency of Serres Prefecture, it accounts for 48.8 acres for every 100 sheep. And in our islands it corresponds to a hundred and twenty acres for every hundred sheep. It's not just injustice, it's a brutal injustice. We, of course, must not act in court and bring farmers to each other. It is certain that mistakes have led to this result. But you, Minister, as a government now that you are and as a competent Minister, must tell us why the state has not yet captured the extra areas, because before you do anything and before you make this joint ministerial decision, the temporary pilgrimage management plans should have taken precedence. We understand the responsibility of the previous governments which did not properly manage these available pastures, which did not properly make the characterisation of pasture land, but also of you before making the distribution of eligible pastures, in order to receive the corresponding subsidies, you should have completed the temporary management plans in the light of the new CAP. I will say it in my denture, because you will certainly answer the new CAP and the problems that will arise in farmers who will be wronged. After having taken the joint ministerial decision - when I had tabled the question, it had not been asked by the EC - then you drawn up seven management plans, which were supposed to be completed by August. However, these management plans do not specifically mention what is going to happen with the areas that are wronged, such as Serres, Evros and Thessaloniki, in general central Macedonia. I am going to ask both questions, because today we have not formally followed the procedure, but there are some very substantial and topical issues. The news is running and, of course, we all have our concern about what is going to happen this afternoon in plenary and we will all be giving ourselves the best. But, Minister, how will you treat the farmers in central Macedonia, with 48.8 acres for the hundred sheep, when the equivalent on the islands is a hundred twenty-three acres, in Crete a hundred thirteen acres and in the Peloponnese eight acres? And the logic, of course, is not to reduce the acres of the islands, Crete and the Peloponnese but to increase the acres where farmers were wronged, that is, central and eastern Macedonia. It is 48.8 corresponding areas in central Macedonia, depending on what each farmer is entitled to for the hundreds of sheep, and fifty-five acres in eastern Macedonia. So we're talking about two and a half times down. And I come, Minister, in particular to questions, and then to our dentistry, we will discuss the details. Why has the state not yet captured the extra areas, torchy and woody, as they arise from enrichment of the definition of pastures? How is it possible from a country which is, in fact, a huge pasture, to lack the necessary eligible areas to enable Greek farmers to act? As Potami, we know very well what had to be done but unfortunately, Minister, you now have to manage it and you know that late August is a key date. And secondly, what action and timetable does the government intend to take in order to solve, without inequality, the problem of eligible pastures which unfairly harms Greek livestock and Greek livestock farmers, Minister, and brings them to the other? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. The Minister has the floor, Mr Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u105	Mr Colleagues, as you have said, we have to deal with a 'hot' problem, which is'surpassing' years in our country and, of course, a problem, which in particular in recent years has been highly charged, because there is no proper management of pastures, of course, within the framework of the support for the rural development programme. Because of this, there has also been a burden on the state budget: I signed 210 million, receiving the Ministry, as the first instalment of fines agreed. A few days ago, a new fine was finalised by the European Commission, this time for pastures, and it concerns dates 2008, 2009 and 2010 of 320 million. The information tells us that for the years 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, another fine comes to us. So you understand how difficult and 'hot' the situation we have to deal with is. One of the main reasons why we had these problems is why we did not make rational use of the areas eligible for pasture land. Of course, it was indeed the lack of management plans that aggravated the situation. So we have made a decision. We will not continue with the previous situation when it comes to the use of grazing land, and of course, we will not finally allow new incubations to exist. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] That is why we have said: in order to avoid problems like those we have experienced in the past, we are obliged to take account in particular of local conditions - the number of animals, eligible pasture - so that we do not again have to send farmers to other regions - and you know that - particularly in remote regions. He had, for example, his stable in Evros and took a piece of eligible for the rest through the distribution process, sent him to Epirus or the Peloponnese. You are aware that this has resulted in the relevant controls having the charges. So what do we do? We have taken out a new GAAP, based on existing livestock and on the criterion that farmers move as far as possible within regional units, so that we can solve the problem. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, because this is a very important matter, your tolerance. With the new Ministerial Decision, therefore, the differentiations in the extent to which the grazing lands are distributed are mitigated, without overlooking the particular circumstances of the area. Secondly, the provisions of the European Regulations on eligibility are complied with in order to avoid what I have said before, imputations. Unrealistic solutions such as the ones I have told you are avoiding the movement of farmers far away, many kilometres from their premises. At the same time, there is also a stock of pastures in areas where we want to have a surplus, for the simple reason that young farmers can enter this activity. Because, if there is no new reserve, we will not be able to create new units. Of course, for those of the farmers in the areas with fewer than the areas eligible under this reserve, we will be able to resolve the problem by clarifying one thing that the movement we take within the territorial units will prove to be necessary. There is no way that we, like the ones who have experienced, can accept charges through fictitious procedures. Of course, in this effort, we absolutely need the municipalities and regions, because we have not yet completed and want to do so by 15 June - perhaps we will do so by 30 June - to see that through local practices these 14.5 million acres will be brought up as much as possible so that at least in the statements, where specialisation begins, we have, in fact, all the prefectures that normalises the situation. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I don't have the picture at this time, because this process is under way, but what I want to say to you is that no regional unit will be in any worse situation than the one it was. We're taking a step further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u106	Minister, in your dentistry, you will say the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u107	So in my denture, I'll give you more details.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st Municipal School of Amarousi. Welcome, guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u109	Thank you for the answer, Minister, but there are some issues that are not solved and we have to deal with them. If KYA is implemented, farmers in the areas of central and eastern Macedonia and Thrace - you know that better than I do - will suffer a loss of their single and compensatory compensation of more than 50%. Furthermore, in the single dossier for the new CAP, a single price has been set for the livestock farming of EUR 250 per hectare. This trick that they do with the density of grazing and the trick with the moving farmers is excluded and it is certain that it will distribute the amounts in different parts of the country. You know that, Minister, this has not been solved. We'll have to sort out this. The most important thing of all is that we have to resolve it by August, now, in three months' time, because with the new CAP what farmers will say, they will be bound by them for the next five years. Isn't that right? From there on, according to the joint ministerial decision, pastures may change in the future, but that is to be done, the management plans must be completed. Do you, Minister, have to hurry a little on the issue of management plans and the urgency procedure, as you said, using regions and municipalities, do something about it immediately? Because in August 2015, the temporary rights of the new CFP will be sent to farmers. They will be bound for the next few years. When are these changes going to take place in the pastures, even if we fix it after one, two or three years? This will affect the subsidies received by our farmers. Minister, I will conclude with an issue that clearly concerns my own constituency and all the livestock counties that have bordering Balkan countries. You know what's going on with the illegal Greekisms. Subsidies are not only support for local production. It is support for competitiveness so that the farmer can compete with this illegal Hellenism and this cheap product that comes from where it comes from. I won't deal with quality. It is certain that the Greek product is better quality or, if anything, we know where it comes from. However, if we do not protect the subsidy, we will never be able to be competitive. All the previous honourable Members have discussed this today in the Chamber. In fact, it was an excellent debate on the primary sector and especially on livestock farming, Mr Davaki. However, there are some issues that need to be resolved now and not to remain in the words, as Mr Davakis said. So the project's time has come, and I understand that we all want to achieve the same thing, namely the competitiveness of the primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u111	First of all, Mr. Colleague, the CSU does not mention surfaces. It does not mention surfaces deliberately, because we are in a process to increase surfaces throughout Greece. Secondly, we have time ahead of us. In other words, there is no way that we will reach the finalisation of rights without having done all the procedures. We have now given consultation - you know - a draft law on grazing land. In fact, I would say that intervention is very serious because there are three main issues which are the management of grazing land, the eligibility of areas suitable for grazing, and, of course, the use of the grazing rights by farmers. In our country, dear colleague, there are seventy million acres of woodland. Of these, the fifty - two - million acres are grazing, mainly 15 million acres of grassland, thirty - one million forest land and six million acres of forest. There, then, we will enter, in order to draw up the management plans, which will spread seven horizontally across all the territorial units of the country and four or five vertically into regional units, which are essentially the most sensitive and where we had problems, so that we can identify the results of these horizontally and vertically in order to'swipe' and have a definitive and documented solution, in particular, on the big problem. I will agree with you - I think, indeed, that we have said this before - that it is the vegetation of these areas, which gives the quality status of our products and which, unfortunately, we have not been able to serve until now. It is not the question of feta where a great battle is taking place worldwide. Because you spoke about Greekism, unfortunately, we had the information yesterday - and we protested to the European Commission, like the country itself - that we in Bulgaria are beginning to have a feta, which is, of course, from cow's milk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u112	It's dangerous, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u113	The battle we have to fight is multifaceted. I would like to assure you once again that through this management plan process we will have completed by 15 August. We will be able to see, until 15 September, where the selectivity goes and on the basis of the statements made, we have consulted the Agriculture Commissioner, that we can have the flexibility by 15 September - 15 October, where we have weaknesses, put them and finalise them. So because the rights for the new CAP for four or five years are closed at the end of the year, we will have closed rights and we will have solved a problem of managing aid. At the same time, we will have laid the basis for livestock farming through the definitive management plans in order to address the major problem that is feeding to support this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Minister. The fourth question under number 269/26-5-2015 will be discussed in the context of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the problems of apple growers in the Municipality of Agias, Larissa. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Comrade, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. The problem that arises with the timely question that we have tabled and discussed today is well known to the Minister and the government for some time now. Of course, the uncertainty, the agony and the impasse, led by the apple growers of the Municipality of Agias in Larissa, by the degrading and dramatic shrinking of their income due to the embargo on the European Union in Russia, leave no room for reassurance in the direction of resolving the acute problem of the dramatic problem, as I said, of reducing the income of the apple growers. Here we must point out that the Russian market was the destination of over 50% of the products exported by our country and among these, 80% of the total production of green apples mainly from the Agiae region - I mean from total production throughout the territory. However, because of the embargo, not only did the largest market for the absorption of agricultural products disappear, but the imports of apples from other countries have taken place, resulting in Greek apples - which are of unknown quality - remain unsold, while the quantities of apples sold were given to dealers at degrading prices and under the pressures and blackmails of traders. Of course, they haven't been paid yet. On the basis of this situation, the apple growers - and we do not exaggerate - are facing a situation of survival, Mr President, and Minister - since the new crop is uncertain whether it can be absorbed, while at the same time it is called upon to pay carpets, VAT, expensive current, oil, supplies purchase and other cultivation costs, in order to cultivate production. We believe that it is fair to demand that producers make immediate solutions from the government to the major and acute problems faced by producers. The questions to the Ministry and the Minister are what measures will be taken to make up for the incomes of small and medium-sized producers, the reduction of which, of course, is due to the embargo for which they are not responsible themselves but, above all, to what direction the government will move towards segregating its position from the embargo on Russia as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u117	Mr Colleagues, we also know the concern of the apple growers of Agias to ensure their activity, and we will, in fact, make every effort to support them. But allow me, because I also had a meeting with them, to say to you that I disagree with the information you mentioned about their export activity over the specific years. That is why I put forward specific figures to be found in the Minutes. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] On the basis of the data provided by the Hellenic Statistical Authority, exports of apples as a whole to Russia, while increased in 2012 compared to 2011, in 2013, they did show a decrease of 63.6% in value and 66.1% in quantity, while, respectively, 2014 compared to 2013, they had 29% in value and 19% in quantity. In particular, however, for exports of apples to the Larissa Prefecture, on the basis of export notifications entered in the Register of Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Traders, there is a total increase in exports to all countries by 94.1%, i.e. 11 thousand ninety-seven tonnes in the period to which you refer, from 1-9-9-2014 to 2-6-2015, while, of course, Russia has shown a reduction but the final result, it has been shown at this time that a higher export performance has been presented in relation to the losses to the Russian market. When we have substantial evidence that we have more production and more export, you realise that it cannot be haunted by our side as well as by the question, namely the introduction of a minimum de minimis for the region for these producers, for the simple reason that we cannot substantiate it. As you know, in order to do this, we absolutely must have the consent of the European Commission, because if we do so on our own, we will have new 'Hatzigakis packages' like what the region has experienced, and we have made it clear that the Greek budget - and of course the Greek citizen - cannot withstand other impulses. That's it to be clear. From there on, there is indeed a problem with the embargo and perhaps in my dentext I will tell you more about what we are doing from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the information you have just mentioned, of course, reflects the export record, as you said, and so on. The question is, the farmer is what is going on. Because the exporter, by extortion to the farmers, may have taken it - and took it as a beer than -15-20 minutes the green apple. And I'm telling you about the green apple, I didn't tell you the facts or what is being referred to and the question, they're registered. We are not generally referring to apples but specifically to green apples that in the specific area of the Municipality of Agias, it is 80% of the malo production. And I'm stressing it, the green apple. It is not those farmers who lie, but ELSTAT, the authorities - I do not know - who record the evidence you have just mentioned, as you are entitled to it - within or outside the importing country - that you do not have the right not to take measures in the direction of strengthening the incomes of farmers who have been severely affected. And you know that there were also mobilizations in the Ministry, but "other words to be loved". You didn't tell them anything. And that was three to four months ago. Here are enormous responsibilities. And if you want me to give you another clue, because I had it marked. I told you about the 15-20 minutes that they were taken very well under production costs - very low! -, when the same production cost for a leaf of seventeen kilograms is 4-6 euros and half of them go to the refrigerators. So here's the cost of production. And it's not just refrigerators, it's the rest of them, like the oil we're talking about and the question. Let us recall that when the embargo was passed in the European Union for the first time against Russia, the then government of the New Democracy and the PASOK, signed for the embargo. SYRIZA, as an official opposition, has also personally opposed it - if you remember well, it is registered - calling for this signature to be lifted against the embargo. But, on 29 January, you come to the new SYRIZA-ANEL conflict and what are you doing? You're signing. Put your signature wide! We believe that the request from the farmers is fair, because the exporters are great traders. And I told you before that apple imports were made at the same time as our apples - the green ones in this case - were indisposed, excluded because of the embargo on exports. At the same time, they imported, extorting farmers, by destroying the price of the product, so that they are, of course, at a dead end at the moment, farmers and demanding solutions from the government and the replacement of their lost income. This is to add the entire cost of cultivation and the unfavourable tax burdens that have been borne by farmers in our country, with the unbundling of the policies that you are continuing. For example, I would mention the tax rate of 13% from the first euro, the tax advance for next year, not to mention HICP, contributions, loans, etc. How will they respond? And here we are in the new harvest season, with regard to other fruits - peaches, etc. - but also for apples in two months, they'll start harvesting. What is the prospect of making these products available? We say that on the basis of developments, of course, we must conflict with the European Union. And that's not what you will do. The government knows very well. Let farmers, workers, the Greek people draw conclusions. This European Union, this wolvest alliance that the Communist Party says, does not foresee anything positive for our peoples, for our peoples, for farmers, for apple growers, as well as for us, but for new evils, shrinking and unleashing, common agricultural policy, etc. That is why we believe that the government must defend the local production and the interests of the fruit producers as a whole and the small and medium-sized farmers, of course separate their position from the European Union and, in practice, support the lost income of the small and medium-sized farmers. In this direction, we call on farmers to step up their struggles, their claims to make up their incomes, reduce their production costs, but also on other demands they claim, tax relief, etc. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u121	Mr Colleague and we stand behind the farmers' struggles. Indeed, they must mobilize and claim. But we have a reality ahead of us and we choose the best. The best thing in this case would indeed be some aid from state resources - because this is what we are talking about - and, of course, this aid, as the situation has changed, requires the approval of the European Commission and the approval of the European Commission wants to be haunted. I told you and I repeat that according to the figures we have, in 2014 compared to 2013, exports to other countries increased by 12.3% in value and by 25.9% in quantity. Both value and quantity increased over the previous years. This is something that makes us all the best possible to claim this consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u122	So, the apple growers are liars?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u123	From that point on, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u124	Of these, the "Saint apples" who are they?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u125	Who are the apples of Agia? We're talking about green apple.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u126	I heard you. It's evidence that I've sought.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u127	Since you've been looking for them, why didn't you look for the green apple?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u128	No one presented them to me and I finally fled to Larissa, and I got the specific evidence that proves what I'm saying to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u129	It doesn't prove!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u130	Of course what you want to prove, Minister, is that farmers are liars. Come for a walk from Agia!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Comrade, this evidence was brought by the Minister. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u132	I didn't interrupt you. And keep in mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u133	Come for a walk from Agia to see what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u134	I didn't interrupt you. There is no way for us to return to situations like the previous ones and for the Greek people to pay them multiplely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u135	Good! So they'll be wiped out! Come for a walk from Agia and tell them up!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u136	Dear colleague, you know that we have EUR 2.6 billion fines and charges.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u137	Come for a walk to Agia and say these!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u138	To put forward your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u139	Colleague, Minister, let's continue. Please, ladies and gentlemen, without irritation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u140	From that point on, I want to make one thing clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u141	From the evidence he quotes, he tries to lead the conversation elsewhere and get farmers liars out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u142	The Minister in question has brought this information. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u143	I quote the evidence that proves what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u144	Will you say anything about the green apple? 80% of apple production in Agia is green apple.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u145	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u146	What's 'all right'? How 'okay'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Lambroulis, you are so noble...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u148	Invite things that suit you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u149	Well, finally. You'll let me finish. So as far as the issues that have arisen about the embargo are concerned, it does indeed have consequences there too. There is one regulation, which allows us only two hundred tons of apples to be withdrawn for social reasons. It is a process that also presupposes the participation of apple producers. We'll serve her, we'll pursue her. We, of course, have contacts at the same time, as you know, with Russia, in order to investigate any solutions, so that we can really get this market in Russia, especially in our agricultural products, back in previous situations, because there has been a great fight on the part of producers so that we can get into a particularly demanding market. So in this effort you understand that we are moving on a tense rope, because we do not want to create unpleasant situations in our relationship with the European Commission. Mr. Comrade, do you know that 55% - 60% of rural income is aid? We all talk to each other, and in the end we all end up in a word, when are we going to get the backup? Why didn't we get the backup? Whilst we should all be interested in what we are going to do about the production process. That's where we have to fight. Unfortunately - I tell you - that is the picture. The policies that have been implemented over the years have, unfortunately, become an agricultural production.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u150	Who determines the price of the product? This is the European Union that is described, which you have a Gospel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, please help the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u152	From our side,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u153	Mr Colleague, there is no general debate. Help the Bureau a little. The Minister's answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u154	I conclude by saying that we will try as much as possible to manage aid in such a way that they do not get lost and catch a place, but above all we will try to pursue agriculture, which is what is being called for, to carry out productive activity. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u155	Good! That is to say, the farmers who are reconstructing, which you are talking about. That's what they're gonna collect!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the second debate under number 227/18-5-2015 of a topical question by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of the quartz protection network by air in the rural areas of the Kavala Prefecture. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is to your credit that you are coming and you are consistent with your obligations for parliamentary control and you are responding, almost alone, to many people today as well as you can. I am going to turn your attention today to a fair but unsatisfactory request from the rural world of my constituency, Kavala, when it rains out and they may be propelled, and perhaps other political storms come. We will deal with the extreme weather phenomenon of quartzing, the quartz protection system developed in our country under the contract signed on behalf of the public company by ELGA with the contractor and the special article of this contract that provides that there can be an extension of the scope of protection of this contract by means of the exercise of the right of ELGA. As you know, the system covers areas of central and western Macedonia and central Greece, but not the regional unit of Kavala. Why Kavala, Minister? Because that is where too many agricultural crops and, above all, dynamic crops are growing up to an area of five hundred and forty square kilometres. In particular, thirty thousand acres with vines, of which twenty-two thousand acres are for table grapes, eight to eight thousand acres with kiwi with an export 100% orientation, ten thousand acres with asparagus, as well as the kiwi, for exporting to the region - as well as the kiwi - of Nestos to the east of the region of Kavala, fifteen thousand acres with almonds in the region of Pangaio, five thousand acres with various fruits and about two and a half million olive trees in the area of Thassos and Pangaios, mainly. As you can see, agricultural production is huge and is very often affected by hailing. The answer given by the Ministry to a question I had developed in March was negative. "It can't be," he said, "to subject Kavala because this would mean an increase in technical means and therefore an increase in costs", which is contrary to the view of the company that says other. The prerequisites for the national quartz protection programme, therefore, according to the Ministry, are the frequency of quartzosis - there is in this area - the value of crops - only proves from the information I have given you - the amount of compensation paid by the ELGA. To see the numbers, ELGA paid for quartz compensation to producers in the region, EUR 16,299,000 since 2000-2010, an average of about EUR 1.6 million. For example, in 2008 and 2009, in years where there were severe damages, the compensation paid was over 3,5 million euros a year. In another area, to give the comparative figure, which is currently covered by this programme, the total compensation paid for this decade was not even EUR 1.5 million, an average of EUR 144,000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am not saying why the other area I have spoken about should also be subject to it, but why Kavala should also be subject to it, because the data and the money that ELGA pays producers for quarantine compensation fully justify this programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Comrade, you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u159	I would just like to point out one point. According to the contractor, the conditions for extending the programme to another place - and in writing this has been said in response to a relevant document from the counter-region - are that there must be infrastructure - the region has two airports, one east and one west - there must be dynamic crops - in place - and there must also be frequent messaging in the same areas - which is true and demonstrated. Minister, call on you to make a decision. ELGA puts these requirements. The contractor claims that without an increase in costs he can cover. I will say that there will be even a marginal increase in costs. If you compare the financial data, you will see that from the compensation paid by ELGA at the moment, the amount could be reduced, it would pay much less compensation than the additional coverage costs in the Kavala region. Look at the figures, take the decisions, also consult with the new ELGA Bureau, which passed two days ago from our region, had a good debate and showed openness to that perspective. It is worth the farmers and, above all, the ELGA will save resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u160	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, before entering my reply I should refer to your protest because I did not show up last Friday. It's the only Friday I've missed. You knew it both you and your party - because I had informed the House a week ago - that there was a visit on this particular day. I was welcoming the Minister for Agriculture of Palestine and at the same time, and on the same day I was unable to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u162	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u163	I don't want to say any more. It's just, at some point, when special efforts are being made to recognise them. Today, as far as the quarries are concerned, the ELGA - as you know - is implementing specific programmes for the prevention and suppression of air, by means of land. I won't go into details. However, this design and the areas applied are of direct relevance to the frequency of the phenomenon, with the value of crops, to the level of compensation paid. I mean, I'd say there's a particular project per region. The ongoing air quartz protection programme between 2014 and 2019 started on 1 August 2014 and applies in these areas, in particular central and eastern Macedonia. Any extension of the implementation of this programme, including new areas such as the rural areas of Kavala, would require additional technical means - aeroplanes, aircraft pilots, etc. - and therefore at least it would bring about an increase - you say very little, we say that it would bring about an increase - in costs and, of course, at the same time, serious problems would arise when it comes to amending the existing convention, because there is a particular contract. As you can understand, then, under the present circumstances, we as a first approach say that this would jeopardise the effectiveness of our intervention in this area. It is a matter - as I understand it, you have also talked about it in your contact with the President of the ELGA - for which we are open. We will hold a meeting with the company, to see whether the implementation of this programme can be substantially extended, covering the other regions and taking into account that there will be no additional expenditure, for the simple reason that additional expenditure means a reform of the existing convention as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u165	Minister, I recognized you here, from Step one, that you are consistent. I understand that this is done in your absence because of an unsuccessful obligation. As you can see, however, through my quite lukewarm protest I also carry the agony of producers in this region, since we have literally been in the heart of the quartz period. Now it's the period. During the contract, the period shall begin on 20/3 of each year. So let us see the evidence quickly - to see what needs to be done, because it appears here that there is a difference of opinion. The Ministry and the ELGA through this claims there will be extra costs. The company claims that there will be no additional costs in order to cover the additional area, or that if there is a cost, this will be marginal. From information I have made my contacts, the company is talking about around EUR 250 000 to cover this area. But if you calculate the amount that ELGA pays every year for quartz compensation, you will see that there is an obvious benefit on behalf of ELGA. He'll save the producers money. One more thing, Minister, is the substance of the matter. For me there is no more heartbreaking and disillusioning thing for the farmer - you know that well - than coming and seeing within ten minutes, because of the sanctuary, a damaged field, a damaged vine. It is not just that production of the year has been lost and therefore, income for the agricultural world, exports for our commercial balance. It is also the fact that - and we can present this document from the responsible Directorate for Agricultural Production in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace - if the damage occurs in most of the plantations we are talking about, it will not only affect the current growing season but also future growing seasons. For example, the vine that will be destroyed this year will probably not have fruit in time or beyond the next year. It'll be the damage that'll be great in the future. So we can catch up with that. I would ask you to function preventively. I agree that an integrated anti-hair protection system does not only involve air means. He wants some nets. These, of course, cost more expensive. After subsidisation, they cost around EUR 1300 per acre, for example, for vineyards. It is therefore more difficult for the farmer to proceed with this expenditure. However, the air protection system is the most basic tool for an integrated coverage of a large space and I think it is indeed the most suitable instrument. Evaluations have also been carried out in the past. Between 1984 and 1988 they became two, one from the University of Thessaly - you know it - by experts and another from ELGA's geoponets. The conclusion of this assessment showed that there is a reduction in the allowances paid by ELGA following the entry into force of the anti-hail protection programme by air, from 55% to 66%. I mean, ELGA saves over half of what he'd pay for indemnity if there wasn't the program. It is obvious, then, that usefulness. So I urge you to speed up this meeting of bodies in your ministry, you as head of political leadership, the people of ELGA who understand - I would like to believe - the problem, the local actors in the rural world, possibly local authorities, counter-regions, municipalities, mayors, who are calling for this. I think we have a lot to get. Already the period is running. Unfortunately, I suspect from your answer that this period will be lost. I think that, from there on, however, if the decision is taken at the meeting I urge you to speed up, even in June, we can prevent other growing seasons. And let that be your goal. As I told you, ELGA is saving money and farmers are saving their lives, literally. Because the consequences of intense quarries are disastrous not only in their production, but also in their hopes, in their morale, if you like, in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u167	My colleague, as I told you, a meeting has already been established with the company. An examination of their proposal will take place from the point of view of the ELGA. If my presence is also required, of course, we have no problem. Because our sole aim is to deal with phenomena, it is not to see the ELGA going to make estimates and give compensation. I think we all don't want that. We want to deal with phenomena. From this point of view, especially in your area, we need to see more than that. We need to look at all the possibilities we have in terms of evaluation, what experience we have, what global data we can use, etc. In general, I would say that this particular issue of the ELGA wants to see it from the outset, particularly in areas, where these phenomena are too strong. We'll be in touch, because I think our target is common.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Minister. Here is the fourth question (No 243/19-5-2015) of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on measures for bluetongue in the country's livestock. The Minister will answer Mr Evangelos Apostleou. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, we have heard some verbal conflicts between the previous coup d'état and the present one. The truth, however, is that you are both serving the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union, the common agricultural policy, which leads to poor medium-sized farms being dismantled. Minister, the year that passed by the blue fever literally set herds all over the country, from Crete to Evros, Larissa, Trikala, Epirus, Evrose, Aitoloakarnania, Argolida, Argolida, Laconia, which mentioned that there is not a single incident of death in an animal, in Mytilini and elsewhere. We pointed out then that the responsibilities of the previous coup d'état, the regions, the municipalities, which took no prevention, were not sprayed in places where the mosquito was struggling with the host causing bluetongue. They left the farmers at the mercy of disease. Mr Minister, if you said that there was not a single incident in Laconia, I would tell you that there were hundreds of people in Atalo-Carnania. There was not even a single record because there were simply no veterinarians who could record the incidents and there was no area of burial and incineration of animals in the whole prefectures, in whole areas, so that the animals could be decomposed everywhere, at the risk of public health and the environment. There were terrible losses, Minister, to the poor medium-sized farmers. The losses were not only in livestock capital but were long-term and with negative effects on productivity and reproduction. At the same time, they also had an increase in production costs from the greater use of feed, because farmers, where such incidents existed, were forced to keep their animals in enclosed areas. You mentioned before, Minister, the farmers affected will receive compensation. We're telling you rawly with a full sense of what we're saying. You're making fun of the world. They will not receive a single euro compensation because there is simply no record of these incidents. We have a total lack of veterinarians. They're declaring the services. They are whole areas and livestock where there are no veterinarians. We're telling you about the Servias question, the Kosani Vioy, etc. In the whole of this situation, Minister, poor medium-sized farms and farmers in particular experience the results of the declassification of pastures. What did you do with the joint ministerial decision? Manolius changed and put on his clothes differently. That's the reality. Why, you are under the direction of the European Union, the CFP, which wants to lead the earth as cheap material to big capital. Because specifically by declassification this possibility will be given to large capital. Minister, you said there were no incidents this year. The same thing we were told when the first incidents appeared and the JRC had brought this issue. They told us we were in danger. We're telling you that these incidents occurred in Julius. I wish that's not happening again. But it will be your own criminal responsibilities if the bluetongue is brought up and taken again. For us, the main issue is manning, staffing all veterinary units so that they can really respond to this work. However, the main of all is the free administration of the vaccine. And we are telling you that the cost is up to the two euros - it is information from veterinary services - and that the producers are not going to buy this because they have no money. That is why we ask you to answer specifically. And answer another, Minister, for compensation. You are uploading to various sites that the farmers will be paid. We ask you in particular. Those who took crumbs or didn't get at all in '13 and '14 because of the pastures, are they going to get a euro? Say it clearly, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u170	Thank you. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, our services, in cooperation with the Greek Medicines Agency, have taken the necessary steps to enable - I will not repeat what I said in the first question - to have the serotype 4 to deal with bluetongue through vaccination. We really don't have an incident by now. If we can in time and do the vaccine, which will work as a preventive instrument, then you can be sure that we will not have any - we will all wish - an incident. Because when there are incidents you realize that the damage is too great and is not easily collected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u172	Just as long as the vaccine is now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u173	As you know, the veterinary services are indeed facing a major problem and there is a sub-secretory. And that is why I said earlier that my planning was to do - the Ministry with its services - mass vaccination. We have not been able to respond because we do not have the capacity to respond to this work. What I want to say to you, however, in particular as regards the payment of compensation for the eligible costs, is that by 09-11-2014, 692 000 euros had been paid. They went to make a allocation of appropriations then, in November 2014, to cover the remaining expenditure, which was not approved. It was not approved for the simple reason that the General Accounting Office of the State did not cover this expenditure. That is why we, for all these eligible expenditures, then, plus the requests for the first quarter of 2015, are preparing a joint ministerial decision covering this whole part. There is this amount, it is a sum of about 4.5 to 5 million that covers damage. At the same time, we also have a sum exceeding EUR 17-18 million in the CRL itself, which concerns the renewal of livestock, because it is very necessary, especially after the epizootic diseases we have had in previous years. Because you spoke in particular about compensation, as you know, these are paid the next year for the application. The procedure is not complete. We have already adopted this decision, a total appropriation of EUR 130 million has been approved, and of course the payment is already being made and by the end of 2015 all the outstandings of previous years will be closed, but one thing is clear: where there are problems due to the eligibility of the areas the problem is very serious and I cannot say to you now 'we will find the money'. This is money that comes from the compensatory payments, compensation, and you realise that it requires the approval of the European Commission where we are going to fight, but in order to fight, we must definitely be consistent, above all, on the issues of grazing land management. More I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u175	Minister, after your position, the country's livestock farmers must be very concerned. For example, you clearly said "they are not going to get a euro for those who did not receive compensation in 2013 and 2014 because of pastures". You have a dentistry, Mr. Apostleu. Do not worry. You'll answer. They're not gonna get a single euro. It is also not going to take a single euro for those affected by bluetongue. Why, I'm telling you clearly, there's no record of incidents. You didn't even give money to those people you told them to produce recipes through the vets. I have information from both Epirus and Ioannina. They didn't get a single euro for insect repellents. We believe that they should draw conclusions and see clearly from poor farmers that today's SYRIZA-ANEL conflict serves the same anti-agricultural policy. I said and started by saying that, despite any verbal conflicts and differences, they do not at all change the core of this agricultural policy, a policy which is reflected by you today and by the issue of bluetongue. And are we specifically asking you, Minister, today have you been spraying in any area of the country? Did you even take elementary measures for veterinary services? Did you make an amendment to the ELGA to cover the losses of livestock? You've been talking about it in the past, Mr. Apostleu. Bluetongue is not currently covered by the ELGA. Did you make a decision to grant a subsidy to feed if it occurs or to those who have presented the problem of bluetongue? Oh, no. So you have a full responsibility, you follow the same policy. As far as the rest of the poor farmers are concerned, you are clearly saying that you are following the European Union's policy, you have a gospel to your agricultural policy the CFP. That is what you say about pastures, namely that you will follow the Community directives. Today, poor medium-sized farms, Mr Apostleu, experience the negative effects of previous coexistence, which you, too, are serving, for example, the taxation of agricultural income with 13% of the first euro, the ENPIA in rural housing, the fields, everywhere. We believe that this policy is targeted and you want through the policy of the European Union and the common agricultural policy to hit the extensive sheep and goat farming. You want to lead to extinction - that is the truth - an hour faster for small farmers to dominate the big, large stable facilities, the large capitalist livestock units. The poor, medium-sized farmers must not have any illusions about the future of the European Union, whose policy you are also serving. They will be led to the violent disembowelment if they do not resist these policies and to those who serve them. We invite them to fight for another policy, a policy that will really serve their own needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, we do not follow the Community's agricultural policies because we like them. To answer the question you put: EUR 440 to EUR 450 million are granted to livestock farming. So are we making the move to manage this aid properly to get the money, yes or no? It's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u178	It's people's money, our money!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u179	Clear! I say yes or no to you, in this case what are we doing? You said 'you did not pay for the blue fever', I mentioned specific amounts, 'not for compensation', I mentioned specific amounts and the procedures that we are obliged to follow to take the whole piece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u180	Not a single euro!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u181	And it is not just the 440 million, there are other cases of special practices, special aids, linked. I'm telling you, especially in livestock farming, we're going to make a great effort. We have already started from 19% of aid, and we have reached 25% and will seek, as far as possible, to get a greater share, because we have all agreed that it is the sector that must be supported. So we must be clear about this, and in particular from our side, when we make an effort on the issue of the allocation of eligibility - a major issue - to draw up management plans - temporarily tomorrow, definitively tomorrow - you realise that we want to create those bases, with which we will at some point conclude together that we do not need aid and can stand alone. And, of course, you all understand that the conditions must be met to stand. So, today, what is the point? We should be able, as far as possible, to serve the space. In fact, there is a huge problem of animal welfare, we know that. We're making a very big effort. And you disagree, and we disagree. It is incomprehensible to have breeders through programs and through procedures. We at least want the permanentity of these people, because there is a great need. But what can we do? You see that conditions are such and we are in every way trying to meet the need to serve her. It's a one-way street for us. We believe, through and through the new agreement we will have, that we will be able to get away from this, so that we can get into what is needed for our country and that is the production of reconstruction, of which livestock is an important part.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u183	To communicate this to the European Union for veterinary surgeons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u184	Here is the sixth question under number 244/19-5-2015.Piraeus II Pireas of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos Manolakos to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the payroll of OPEKEPE officials. The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr Evangelos Apostolos will respond. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that three weeks ago, twenty days ago, there was noise in the OPEKEPE, because officials were not paid on time, paid after two 24 hours. This delay and this noise, however, have shown that there are other problems, such as the interruption of the payment of travel and other expenses for officials, but also great delays in the payment of aid to farmers. As of the date of the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the implementation of this Regulation by the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. Their advance payment has been completely cut, i.e. an employee must put out of his pocket in advance the costs that even the 700 euros can be spent - that is, a wage - to pay his air fare, the hotel, the car that has to be rented to make these checks. Secondly, the repayment of all suppliers, i.e. the payment of TEKO's invoices and the coverage of OPEKEKEPE's operating costs, has been frozen. Thirdly, although the wages of workers in the agency have been drastically reduced because of memorandum laws, however - of course, the government does not even discuss their reintroduction, because other priorities are the priorities to the lenders - these employees must put their hands back in their pockets when they represent the country in European institutions, since the advances only cover the part of their expenses. So they go to another country and they have to cover their expenses. Internal lending is not only about the company's cash resources, but also about the employees themselves. This is a conscious choice from the point of view, because by a decision of you, Minister, you have reduced the budget for the first quarter of OPECE and while 7 million have been budgeted, you have chosen to take 5. So it was reasonable to have these results. The results, however, are even more tragic, because there are loose ends from previous on-the-spot checks, as well as from on-the-spot checks in 2015. Right now, as far as I know, it's not happening. And for people to understand us, if there are no on-the-spot checks, they don't get the subsidies they deserve. The result? The delays are even higher and the subsidies from the new programming period are being undermined, which will have tragic consequences for small and medium-sized farmers, because economic suffocation is also present in this sector. They are the options of the current government, since the OPEKEPE cash assets, over 200 million, have been transferred to the Bank of Greece. What we are asking you, with today's question, is to take the measures immediately so that these problems can be solved and debts paid to permanent and contracted workers, as well as to farmers and not to be re-created. We are asking, in other words, for what is right, nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u187	My dear colleague, the payroll of OPEKEPE employees is done, as you know, through the Single Payment Authority, on specified dates every month. The payment of the second quarter of May and the employers' contributions took place on 15-5-2015. The two-day delay in payment of the payroll is due solely to the existing procedures for disbursing and paying the money. The officials themselves knew it, because the money had already been deposited four or five days before. As regards the costs and allowances of off-balance-sheet travel, they are initially covered by an advance, which reaches 80% of the estimated total cost of the movement concerned, followed by the liquidation. The delay in clearing off-site allowances shall not affect at all the 2015 request checks that will take place later in the year, as the final date for the submission of applications has not yet elapsed. As you know, an extension has been granted under the Community regulation for the submission of applications due to the first year of application of the common agricultural policy. In addition, it is clarified that the eligibility checks of plant capital will be carried out using the remote sensing method, which entails zero travel costs. I would really like to point out once again that the transfer of OPEKEPE's resources to the Bank of Greece does not relate either to one euro or to the Agency's operating expenditure, which is covered by State budget appropriations rather than the Community budget. Finally, when will this particular thing be understood? The OPEKEKEPE shall make every effort to meet its obligations for the smooth functioning of the CAP while giving priority to the payment of its staff's wages and the fulfilment of its purpose, which shall be the correct payment of Community aid to the beneficiaries of the CAP. Ladies and gentlemen, you have adopted an open letter from the workers' association. We understand their sensitivity to defend their colleagues' right to be paid accurately second. We do not understand, however, what this two-day delay has to do with which, as we have said, they had been informed, with the unacceptable reference you bring and adopt in their communication: it is now visible that, because of the Agency's failure to fulfil its obligations, in accordance with the Community and national frameworks, it should be kept under surveillance and its accreditation suspended and, therefore, it is not possible to pay aid from Community funds to the beneficiaries, with adverse effects on farmers and the rural economy. Where does that impression come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u188	That's not what we put in. Don't answer things we don't put.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u189	Mrs Manolakou, it is the people who must be informed and the people are the one who judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u191	Minister, we have put in a different way, and you respond, because you obviously do not want to solve problems. The Government claims, in all tonnes, that it is prioritised to pay wages and pensions. But, reality and developments disguise you. You prefer to collect everything that exists in organizations and funds for lenders, who "rule" the blood of the people literally and here is an example of OPEKEPE. What did we ask you? We have asked you for self-evident and you do not answer, you do not commit yourself: to give the dues. Their salary, yes, they take him. He's been delayed two or four hours, but he's raised other problems. For these other problems, we have you answer: The road tours required to get out of business. You owe them a place from January and we've been in the sixth month, and since March you've only given them advances. We're talking about permanent and contractors. You know what? It's been 20 days. A week ago some workers went to work, met the president of the OPECE and promised them, told them that at the latest today they would have paid what you did not answer and you do not recognize. Do you know what they said to me this morning? They went to the bank and you want me to read to you the e-mail they sent me? There's no money in it for anything or anyone. They have not put off-site payments from June 8th to June 12th and the checks at the Aegean cheese shops are in the air. They sent it to me a while ago. So who's making fun of what? After all, you know well that farm work is in the full house. What's there and it hasn't been paid? There needs to be an on-the-spot check, and why is it being delayed? Organic farming three years old. I'm not saying you didn't receive. Yeah, but what do you plan and why are you stalling? So do not let us know that transferring the available funds does not pose a problem for payments. The improvement plans are with the dropper and the denaturation of 2013 and 2014 has not been given. Thessaly has not been given in 2012 either. Organic livestock: They haven't taken since 2012. Agricultural oil: 2013-2014. We're talking about 40 million of 2014 and 90 million of 2013. Equivalent compensation? You said it and I don't want to repeat it. Indigenous tribes? At the same time, of course, you are taxing. And you're even taxing subsidies. So there's a question. And the remote sensing you're saying you don't have to, if that's why you should draw conclusions with what you've responded to the previous ones. With remote sensing they went to determine the pastures and now here's the fines that come you. If there is no on-the-spot check, remote sensing doesn't solve the problem. I shall conclude - with your tolerance, Mr President. We say this clearly: The common agricultural policy, which you are serving and which you say that with better management it will produce results, it is myth, it is a mockery. If you want, see the latest developments, and according to them, you will draw conclusions on who the European Union is and what the wolves are. We also call on the farm on a racing course to go to the rallys on June 11 to abolish anti-grass laws, cover the losses so far, but also against anti-grass designs of lenders and government, because the forty-seven-page plan is full in anti-grass measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u193	However, your concern in two-thirds of your speech is when we get the aid, when we get the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u194	They deserve it, they're theirs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u195	We are making a great effort in this respect. In fact, I'm telling you that payments are made properly. If there are some delays, there are problems that we have unfortunately inherited and made a great effort to deal with. Because you referred again to the use of OPEKEPE's resources, I am clear to you one thing: They have been parked for years with 0% and with 0.3% in the last six months, and we have taken 2.3% and 2.4% in the Bank of Greece, which means using the available resources, to the benefit of the rural area to which they belong. Secondly, this money was taken from the advance payment of the Rural Development Programme. They couldn't go anywhere else. And this money will only be needed when the Rural Development Programme is completed and it will either stay in our country if they are closed down in total or are repaid when the absorption is not carried out - so that we can make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u196	The greatest use is to give the farmers who are waiting for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u197	From that point on, I said to you: with regard to traffic, 80% take it as an advance and when liquidation takes place, they get the rest. There's no more delay. As far as at least workers are concerned. Once again, they are paid for in the state budget rather than in the Community budget. From there on, if we do not do well on the management plans of pastures, on the selection of remote sensing, Mrs Manolakou, let me tell you that it is so specific that his technical details are only for experts. We have a political approach that says: we want management plans, we want to meet the needs for eligibility, so that we can take the aid, but also organise the livestock sector on a future basis. That's our target. All the rest, well, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth under number 252/20-5-2015 top-level question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavraanis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the implementation of the decisions of the Energy Regulatory Authority and the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission and in the case of LARCO, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The first question under number 274/26-5-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the actions of the Government to safeguard the agricultural income of Elias affected by the catastrophic weather phenomena will not be discussed due to the Member's impediment. The eighth Question No 270-26-5-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the timely and fair compensation of the affected farmers of Elias Prefecture from the intense weather phenomena will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The third, with number 231/18-5-2015, topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the River Mr Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the restoration of injustice for the owners of photovoltaic roofs, will not be discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The fifth question under number 228/18-5-2015 of the new Republic MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the delay of the meeting of the Central Environmental Authorisation Council (CSDP) to approve environmental conditions of certain projects and activities, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The seventh question under number 206/12-5-2015 of the Second Cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay of payments to the shipowners of the Lower Neuroscope of Drama Law from the Green Fund, will not be discussed due to a Member's impediment. The eighth Question No 178/4-5-2015, on the second question of the Member of Parliament, Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning the appeal to the judiciary of television stations for the decisions of the Minister of State on the basis of which they were imposed retroactive frequency charges, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Finally, the first question by MP B' Athens Georgios Amyras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning Greece's participation in European policy processes to limit pollutants from both the new and existing lignite plants will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, eighteen students and students and three educational attendants from the 5th Elementary School of Ermoupolis Syros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of reading the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday, 8 June 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 299/2-2015 by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism concerning initiatives to protect citizens against the radiation of mobile antennas. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 306-2-2015 topical question by MP Athens, New Democracy, Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the conversion of tax rates into donations for humanitarian purposes. 3. The 289/29-5-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of National Defence, concerning Turkish air space violations and Greek territorial waters. 4. The question by No 276/26-5-2015 of Parliament's 2nd Thessaloniki, Mrs.Akaterini Markos, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the upgrading and modernisation of the airport of Ioannina. 5. The 302-6-2015 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the problems of the ferry transport of Lemnos and Agios Efstratios. 6. Under number 287/29-5-2015, a topical question by MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of National Defence, on the reopening of the ElektrochaniKANIC KYPE plant, its integration into the administrative structure of the Ministry of National Defence and the reopening of the local economy. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 292-6-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the progress of PPP contracts (Public-Public-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Private-Prority-Private-Private-Private-Private-Provernance-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish-Polish B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 297/2-2015 by MP Imathia of the Radical Left Coalition, Konstantinos Lapavitsa, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the prevention of the conclusion and approval of the TTIP. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 307/2-2015 of the Greek MP, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs, on the reintroduction of the "single price" in the book. 3. Under number 277/27-5-2015, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the River Mr. Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of National Defence on the need for immediate recruitment of AACP successors to meet the needs of the Greek AEROPORIC INDUSTRIAL BIOHANIA (EIB). 4. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the action to be taken on the anti-nuclear protection of the country. 5. The question by No. 242/19-5-2015 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Georgios Diakrias, to the Ministers of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the study of a settlement - delimitation of the great stream of Rafina. 6. The question by No. 219/14-5-2015 is a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the provocative action of Skopje in Florina. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 245/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the airport of Chania. 8. The 241/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the issues of the ferry connection of Samos, Ikaria and Fortunes with Piraeus and other destinations. 9. The 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone. 10. The 230/18-5-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki, Christina Tachiaou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the risk of the Metro of Thessaloniki from European funding. 11. The 246/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the dangers of the national network of Antirios - Ioannina and Amfechia - Lefkada - Preveza. 12. The 187/5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aegenakis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the deprivation of the fourteen regional airports. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 204/11-5-2015 by MP for the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the treatment of the unemployment of Greek seafarers. 14. Observed. The 172/30-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the legislative safeguarding of disability pensions and the undisclosed first residence. 15. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Under number 201/11-5-2015, a topical question by MP Larisa of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the reform of the rules of operation of TIERISIA SA, finding a solution for business merchants and farmers unable to meet their financial obligations, as well as the reopening of the auctioning of the first home. 17. The 225/18-5-2015 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras, Minister of Finance and National Defence, on the infrastructure of the School of Positive Sciences of the University of Thessaly. 18. The 236/19-5-2015 topical question by MP 2 Athens of Potamio (Hari) Theocharis to the Minister of Finance concerning the extension of the deadline for the application of Article 15 of the Law. 4321/2015 on the one-off repayment of part of the debt with a discount. 19. The 251/20-5-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the completion of outstanding tax controls. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question by number 1642/8-4-2015 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the procedure for the authorisation of outdoor parking at the Historical Centre of Athens. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn by Elias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "Aydinlik" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the vindication of sixteen Greek islands". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about compensation for the expropriated property. 4. The question under number 1328/100/31-3-2015 was asked and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the privatisation of the Port Authority of Piraeus. 5. The question under number 701/45/11-3-2015 was asked and application submitted by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diakrias to the Minister of Finance concerning the inventory and disclosure of rented real estate of the public and measures to limit the cost of buildings leased. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-05-S1-commons.u199	With the consent of the House at 13.25 the sitting is closed for the day of Friday 5 June 2015 at 18.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: a special agenda for plenary session on the subject: "A discussion, at the request of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, in accordance with Rule 142A of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House on the issues of the current negotiation".
