ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Panayota Dritsel, MP, to announce the reports to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u2	MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning: The memos of the Coordinating Committee of the switched teachers on 26-5-2015 and 3-6-2015 on the views and positions of affected teachers from the mandatory transitions of Law 4172/2013 in order to resolve them fairly. The letter of the Single Body of Members of PhD Research Personnel of the Hellenic Open University, which appeals to the Minister of Education to take immediate initiatives leading to the election of the management bodies of the Greek Open University Members. The letter of protest of the Panhellenic Association of Educational Courses of the TE1 School of Laboratories - SLETE, which seeks the adoption of new Directives on the specialities of their industry, highlighting the risk of exclusion from new assignments and from the laboratory training of professional high schools (EPA.L.). To the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning: The press release of the Panhellenic Trade Union of Land Goods Transport, which highlights the problems in freight transport from the closure of the banks and suggests the normalisation of transport and the supply of Greek citizens. Freepen.gr, which has been posted on 25-5-2015, denounces the state's indifference to the 30-day coastal exclusion of the island of Agios Efstratios from its connection to the route Lemnos - Kavala - Lavrio and to the unfair competition of Turkish ships in the Eastern and North Aegean maritime link with the Turkish coasts. The publication of the newspaper “HMERICA” on 24-6-2015 on the request of the Kato Alissos Beach Cultural Association for the extension of the suburban railway to the west, as provided for by the draft Partnership Agreement (ESA) for a stop to Alice or Lower Alice. To the Ministry of Health, concerning: The publication of the newspaper “AGELIFOROS” on 4-6-2015 describing the lack of medical staff at the Artificial Nephrous Unit at Katerini Hospital and highlighting the need to recruit neurologic specialists in order to achieve adequate service and hospitalisation of the neuropaths in the area. The publication of the newspaper “KATHMERINI” on 24-6-2015, which denounces the return of the jury doctors to the ESS by the application of the n. 4325/2015, amending the conditions for the imposition of an equitable holiday for violating officials for high moral depreciation offences. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning: The publication of the newspaper “GOME” on 3-6-2015 recommending an increase in policing on the coastal road of the port of Patras and measures to protect residents and port facilities. The publication of the newspaper “POPOPONNIS” on 20-5-2015, which highlights the need to implement the Circular of the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Prosecutors to limit the phenomenon of noise pollution in the city and in the region of Patras. The letter from a citizen complaining about his unjust treatment by the Greek State during the selection process of candidates by means of an APA to recruit staff at the Athens Municipal School. To the Ministries of Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning: The newspaper “KOSMOS” published on 29-5-2015 which denounces that in the region of Rio in Patras very high rates of enterococcus have been identified due to sewage that plummets the sea with the responsibility of the owners of the local stores. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction and Environment, concerning: The publication of the newspaper "GOMAN" on 24-5-2015, which refers to the endangered breed of horses in Pindos, as well as to the particular problems faced by their breeders in central and western Macedonia. To the Ministry of National Defence, which concerns: The letter from the Panhellenic Federation of Parents and Princess of Children in dyslexia and learning difficulties in expressing its protest about the identification of learning difficulties with mental illness in the context of the evaluation of candidates for the highest military schools. To the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning: The publication of the newspaper “Parapolistica” on 6-6-2015, in the insert “Secret”, on a complaint about an offense in Piraeus controlled by a large businessman. To the Ministry of State (to fight corruption), concerning: The publication of the newspaper 'Parapolistics' in which it talks about a government investigation into how to buy a television station. To the Ministry of State (to fight corruption) and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning: The publication of the newspaper ‘Parapolistica’ which refers to information ‘on the control of the legality of loans to broadcasters targeted by the public prosecutors’. To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning: The Press Release of the Association of Lecturers with Postgraduate/Documental Studies in Special Education/School Psychology requesting the withdrawal of paragraph 4 of Article 47 of the relevant Multi-Project of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, while pointing out the importance of equal recognition of the pre-service of substitute teachers, as well as the safeguarding of their working rights. The letter from a citizen requesting the immediate opening of the appointment of outstanding training qualifications. The letters and press release of the Professional Scientific Education Association for Engineering (ETC) setting out positions and objections on a number of issues of undergraduate and postgraduate studies, which are presented in the multi-legislative draft "Consolidation on Higher Education, Research and other Provisions". The letter of the Panhellenic Federation of Mechanical Engineering of Higher Education of Public Officials requesting the amendment or withdrawal of Article 11 of the Multi-Project of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs entitled "Agreements on Higher Education, Research and other Provisions" and sets out its proposals for the proper recognition and safeguarding of the academic qualifications of the students of Higher Education Engineering Sector. The release of the newspaper “AKROPOLI” on 15-6-2015, which poses critical questions arising from the findings of the excavations in Amphipolis, for which insufficient clarification has not been given. The letter of the International Pontificate of Greeks calling for the immediate reintegration of the history of Persian Hellenism into the examination material of the pan-Hellenic examinations of the Third High School. To the Ministry of Health, concerning: The request from the ‘Lyrakos Clinic S.A.’, which highlights the need to adopt specific terms and proposals in the draft contract with the EEAS in the context of the cooperation of this therapist with a clinically identical class and to safeguard the interests of their hospitals. The letter of the board of directors of the Pedagogical Education Center "The Merimna" which highlights the inability of the institution to fulfil its obligations towards workers and suppliers, as well as to cover its insurance and tax obligations to the public, while calling for the appointment of a meeting with the Minister of Health to be jointly sought. The publication of the newspaper "MAKELEIO" on 13-6-2015 on the malfunctioning of the artificial kidney unit and the responsibilities of the management of the hospital of Corfu. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning: The request of the inhabitants of eastern Aegiale, ‘Independent Open Movement of Eastern Aegialia’, on the self-management separation of the region from the region concerned, in order to improve the living and development conditions of the local society, based on the advantages of the region and its market. The release of the newspaper "GOME" on 4-5-2015 in which the over-accumulation of immigrants is denounced at the port of the Dowry Coast of Patras. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning: The post of the newspaper "AKROPOLI" on 14-6-2015 in which the daily spectacle of the growing number of homeless people on the streets of the capital, middle of the tourist season, is reported, and the need to address the humanitarian problem is highlighted. To the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning: The letter from a citizen complaining about the loss of his pension right. To the Ministries of Internal and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning: The letter from the President of the Secondary Education (TEN) of the Technical Vocational Education (TEN) of the Department of Western Macedonia referring to the issue of a photographic recruitment notice by PPC and to the request for the cancellation and reopening of this procedure. To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning: The letter of associations and Achaea institutions seeking the renovation of the former garbage dump in the Riganokambos of Eglycada and its emergence in an area of culture and sport, as well as the dismantling of the illegal camp and the transformation of the Roma living there. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning: The publication of the newspaper “AUGI” on 25-6-2015 suggests that the Citizens’ Ombudsman points out the need to implement the already approved National Waste Management Plan and proposes to change the management system in the direction not only of waste recycling but also of prevention through the preparation of sustainability studies, strengthening the civil participation process and the implementation of the services involved in the preparation of waste management plans. To the Ministry of National Defence, concerning: The request of an officer to re-establish the graduation of the graduates of the highest military schools (ASA) introduced to these schools in 1988 and 1989. The letter of the Association of Officials of the Ministry of National Defence/General Military Staff (HRF/GEA) of the Achaea Law which seeks the adoption of a series of proposals for the improvement and upgrading of the "Technical Training Center" of Patras for the benefit of military and local society officials. The letter from a citizen calling for the adoption of a series of innovative proposals concerning the modification of the pension scheme for the Armed Forces. The letter from the Military Union of the Region of Western Macedonia expressing its protest about the inconvenience of duty in local military units.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u3	The announcement of petitions has been completed. Thank you, Mrs. Panayota Dricelli. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I would like to make a statement. Mr. Antonis Samaras, former Prime Minister, writes to Mrs. Zoi Konstantopoulou, President of the Greek Parliament, in which he states: "Please give me a full day's leave abroad on Tuesday 14-7-2015 for personal reasons. With appreciation, Antonis Samaras." Does this House consent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u4	The House has consented to the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first under number 413/7-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP Achaia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Kanellopoulou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the reintroduction of the law on the "single price" of the book, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the second question under number 419/7-2015 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Eleftherios Aygeakis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the completion of the project of the Heraklion - Mesara road network, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. It will now be discussed the third with number 406/6-7-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Nicholas Orphanou, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the treatment of unemployment in the Naval Repair Zone of Perama. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Theodores Dritsas. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for responding to my invitation to answer this timely question on such a decisive day for Greece's fate in the European Union. It took seventeen hours of tiring and painful negotiations by the Prime Minister to reach an agreement between Greece and the Eurozone. Despite the huge disagreements and the fear that we might get to an end, the Prime Minister did not leave the negotiating table - in honor of it, good for him! - until we find a solution that would secure our position in the Eurozone, which was the same thing. However, on this issue, which concerns us here, it took almost seven years of universal unemployment to end up with all the governments that have passed that they cannot find a temporary solution, leaving the wound to the poverty and insecurity of thousands of people in the region to be misled. It is known that for nearly seven years the paving-up zone is a dead working zone. Without ships to build, maintenance or repair slowly, but firmly. The zone, according to local bodies, has remained dissolved since 2008, with tragic consequences for Perama, with thousands of long-term unemployed and with the closure of hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises operating directly or indirectly for ship repair activity. We're talking about a universal fading of local society. The lack of development policies in the shipbuilding industry combined with the country's total industrial depreciation over the past few years has led to the decline of unemployment in the industry at the level of 90%. It is worth noting that from the total of one thousand eight hundred and fifty nine ships flying the Greek flag, according to the official figures of the Greek Statistical Authority of November 2014, six hundred sixty-five - almost 36% - is more than twenty thousand koruna and combined with the lack of a large, floating PANAMAX repair tank means that they are excluded from the tank and from carrying out operations in the zone. In fact, however, it is far more ships, because all modern Greek flag ships are fifty to sixty thousand tons. The policies pursued so far have led to the strategic importance of economic units being inactive today, completely depreciated and the workforce unemployed and impoverished. It is no coincidence that the "working" club has been created by the Golden Dawn called "Greek Life Repairer Workers" in the region, which is in fact attempting to exploit politically the situation, with the aim of additionally operating as a mediator - between the contractors and the unemployed in the region. In view of the above, I would like to ask you what measures you intend to take to develop the ship repair area of Perama, to deal with high unemployment and what is the timetable for their implementation. Also, when will the Public Management Body of the Zone, whose creation you have announced and what will be its exact subject matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your question. Your introduction soon pointed out the importance of the day. It has followed not only the Greek people, but Europe and the whole world events, incidents, developments very worrying by the role, attitude, choices and decisions, on the basis of which it strongly resists and insists on moving a strong political group, which at present gives it the decisive potential for what is happening in Europe. However, everything that has happened is also hopeful, because in many respects it is now developing a strong reflection that, on this basis, Europe cannot continue to do so. There is a need for radical changes in the direction of a democratic Europe, without austerity and without the choices for the few. I would like to believe that the Greek Government's fight has already contributed to opening up this debate. And despite the fact that the new agreement is unbearable, it will nevertheless be accompanied by wider developments in the European environment. You are right to say that for over seven years the paving zone is weak in intensive. Of course you're right. You cannot extend to all sectors, to all sectors of the shipbuilding industry, but the whole shipbuilding and ship repair industry in our country is suffering, despite the fact that the flagship of this industry, the Scaramaga shipyards have the largest tanker of the Mediterranean. The fact that the Scaramaga shipyards are operating, in fact, with a penalty of 1 billion and more than the European Commission, with a ban on commercial activities and with a commitment to provide only state orders by 2020, makes Scaramaga shipyards inactive. And just because it is a flagship, this affects both the Perama zone and Elefsina and other units, such as Syros, Chalkidas and elsewhere. As far as Perama is concerned, I will comment immediately. You are right to raise the issue of the Golden Dawn effort to take advantage of this situation by establishing a newly established union in the name of a worker, in fact highly political, to exploit the problems that exist in the region. I am sure that Perama has all the dynamism and knowledge and that the workers of Perama will not fall victim to these feasibility movements. I would like to tell you in relation to your question about our announcement of the design of the Single Shipbuilding Industry Agency that we are already in the process of resolving a first problem, prerequisite, the coordination of the relevant ministries. It is the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity, the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Defence. There are many of the co-legislative ministries involved in the shipbuilding industry. We are trying to find a way to work more uniformly and we will proceed immediately after this process that is absolutely necessary, to plan with an economy of scale and on the basis of competitive data a single shipbuilding industry in Greece. Despite the fact that all these units are private and not public units, synergy is needed in this direction. I'll finish my first talk very quickly, and in the second place, I'll talk about Perama. At the moment, the main issue is investment in infrastructure in the ship repair area of Perama. There are other issues of organisationality and functionality, but they are coming. The main thing is infrastructure and there is a possibility. There was planning and he's staying in the middle. One of the causes that has remained in the middle is the premise, for many years, of the imminent privatisation that canceled every design of the "NASS PPA", which could have already been promoted. In my second speech, because I'm over time, I'm going to give you all the information about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Orphane, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. You are absolutely right about both Scaramaga and the effect it has. From 1-12-2010, it has a job ban on foreign warships as well, in accordance with the European Union Regulation. I would like to take your answer and ask whether, as you say, within the upcoming sale package, the majority sale package of PPA shares is included in the Perama zone, since press releases report that PPA spends EUR 2 million annually on infrastructure maintenance, while for their real upgrade, according to the reports, 20 to 30 million are needed. It is also an issue that many Greek ferry companies are currently planning to repair their ships to other foreign shipyards in Turkey and Asia, making as a matter the expensive cost of the work here, which affects and jeopardizes the excellent training of the workforce. How can this be handled? If the privatisation or partnership or this synergy of the PPA, as we will call it, proceed, what will be the requirements you will have from the proposed investor? And one very important thing I would like to ask is whether there will be a spread of some of the profits from this concession to the local society, which is a very big demand. If we can't save the shipbuilding industry together, at least how can we save this area and the long-term unemployed at the end in one of the poorest districts of Piraeus? How can we with other synergies upgrade this region, which is really slowing down, in an activity which is not only historic, but which we also consider to be an absolute priority at the level of wealth development and production? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, there is an exaggeration in relation to the performance of the Turkish shipyards, which in recent years have been organized on the initiative of the Turkish state and not on the free market, even though they operate on private economic criteria. They do not, however, have the know-how we have in Greece. That is why their initial progress has begun to show signs of fatigue and stagnation. But that's not our point. In Greece we are not so late. We may have incomplete organization and incomplete infrastructure, as I have told you. We have, however, a workforce of high know-how, which is recognised throughout the world, and we risk losing it precisely from the developments that have taken place over the years. For any of the things you have asked me about the privatization prospects, the answers are in the concessions of the Greek State to the PPA, which now have to be made again, like the master plan of the PPA must be done again, so that we know and talk about what the port is. Any debate on privatization without them, believe me, as long as I know it, and I know it quite well, it cannot go any further. Do not ask my personal opinion, I have made it public many times and it is not there. What the PPA already needs with the 'NYS PPA', which has not been activated in recent years for other reasons, but also for the reasons I have just described. For the large floating tank it has opened an international competition for repair and maintenance, approximately 1,900,000 euros. The supply of a ‘Panamax’ or ‘Post-Panamax’ tank has an indicative cost of EUR 10 to 15 million to enable the repair of ships to up to three hundred metres. From that point on, there are planned projects to improve passive security and room security measures, internal consortia of area, roads, insurance and ramps, supply of water, electricity, telecommunications, projectors' repairs, supply of dorms and dorms, construction of a service building, repair of existing buildings within the zone, portal and space control system, creation of IT infrastructure. All of this is about EUR 11,750,000 and along with the EUR 10-15 million of the "Panamax" tanks you understand that they constitute a sum that the PPA has the full potential to invest on the basis of its financial data and could have done all these years. This is the main reason why, in previous years, with previous governments, it was not launched by the public PPA - a public limited company listed on the Stock Exchange, but by a majority of the public sector - by the GOI or elsewhere this very realistic possibility of investing and developing, so that today the Perama Zone has other possibilities and other prospects. I believe that in one way or another this will be the case. However, without a concession of the Greek State to the PPA, no plan, whether or not, can proceed. Of course, without an approved master plan, both are pending. They want very serious work to be done and must be done quickly, but not hasty and sluggish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The fourth under number 415/7-2015 topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the maritime connection between the islands of the northern Aegean and northern Greece, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The fifth question under number 408/6-7-2015, first question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the maritime reunification of Patras with Kefalonia and Ithaca, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The first with number 412-7-2015 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the saturated tourist areas and inequality in development will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. We will now discuss the second question with number 420/7-2015 on the second question of the Parliamentary Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussakis, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the grant of a route link between Samothraki and the main mainland Greece and the Aegean islands. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Theodores Dritsas. Mr. Comrade, Mr. Chief, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, I should first of all like to welcome today's agreement. The world of Evros, Minister, has been relieved. On Saturday morning in this Chamber, populism died. Today, he was in Brussels. The opposition parties, brave and simple, authorised the country's Prime Minister and his staff, with his ministers, in order to negotiate the country's failure to go out of the euro, as well as the European Union. Anyone who restores divisional characterizations will be recorded in history as a tragic figure. We should all walk together and support each other to save this place that needs it. He wants to see all of us discuss common problems and deal with them together. As far as the topical question is concerned, Minister, Evros is the portal of Europe in the East, the beginning of Greece and Europe. With this in mind, it is reasonable and next to think that it is worth turning into a transit hub, a node that will unite the Southeast Mediterranean with Central Europe through the northern Aegean, through a maritime new Egnatia, which will "swipe" in today's new Egnatia, on the road. And towards that, we fight institutions and residents. The main prerequisite for this vision to be implemented is the gradual interconnection of the prefecture with the main mainland, namely Attica and the islands of the northern Aegean, which is linked to the development and prosperity of the Evros people through tourism, general trade and the promotion of our industrial, crafts, agricultural, livestock and poultry products. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Over a thousand euros, Minister, costs transport from Evros to Attica, while 1/3 will be the cost of a ship. In a shorter time and at less cost the visitor from central Greece is located in Samothraki and Alexandroupolis, in order to be able to enjoy the island of Niki, Samothraki, as well as Alexandroupolis with its goodies and all the Prefecture of Evros. We want all the above, we want them, we claim them, we own them. But we see that even this first step is delaying and delaying. With this year's opinions of your Ministry's Coastal Transport Council, Alexandroupolis, Samothrace and Evros and Thrace remain without ferry connection. The last opinion is on 26 June. In particular, there is no provision for a road line linking Alexandroupolis and Samothrace and generally Evros and Thrace to mainland Greece and to the islands of the northern Aegean, Lemno and Mytilini. These two islands, Minister, are the market in Thrace, and we are for these islands. All Evros operators and residents, including the local government of all levels, consider the region's development levers to be the route-line subsidy. In particular, the local authority of Samothraki has made it clear that it is necessary to resolve the issue of the "small port" and the specifications for ships of about 10 metres. In fact, I will present you with a brief and today's related document from the local municipality. For this reason, we are calling for the ferry reunification of Evros with the rest of Greece, by launching a ship twice a week on the line Lavrio - Limno - Samothraki - Alexandroupolis and return once a week on the line Lavrio - Mytilini - Samothraki - Alexandroupolis and return. For these reasons, we ask you the following questions today: Above all, if you intend to direct the route between Alexandroupolis and Samothrace with the main mainland Greece, Lavrio or any other you judge port and the islands of Lemnos and Mytilini. Also, you ask if you intend to take other measures to upgrade the port of Alexandroupolis and remove the exclusion of Alexandroupolis, Samothraki, Evros and Thrace from general navigation. Finally, you are asking whether the possibility of subjecting such routes to a wider European funded programme has been investigated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your timely question. I would agree with you that what has happened in recent times, grand and historic events, is invoking us all to the unity of the people and not to the division. Indeed, necessary prerequisites for this - I think you will agree - is the respect of the Greek people by the partners and the firm effort of all to resist the attempted choices of humiliation of this people. We must all work together to ensure that the people are united, proud and upright. And that's not populism, Mr. President. There is a political will, in fact, to try to solve a project proposed by the Samothraki society, local government, the Evros society, the self-government of Evros, precisely because it is not just a proposal for a service, it is a development plan and I fully understand that. On this basis, I have recently discussed this issue with the Mayor of Samothrace who visited me at the Ministry and we sat for over an hour and looked at all the parameters. In fact, we are looking into the possibility of the Ministry responding to the new plans that are about to pass through the Maritime Transport Council and to see whether we can really serve such a solution for next year. See: The line currently in existence as a subsidized line, Lavrios - Agios Efstratios - Lemnos, after the many adventures that have passed and which is now served by a ship and which has extended, from there and beyond, unsubsidised in Kavala three times a week, works until now, but the power of the contract expires. Local societies have the first reason to raise matters. They have been in this direction for a long time, studying all the data, but it is not certain that we will have the same proposal for the next time from the local communities of Lemnos and Agios Efstratios. In any case, this remains at present. From there on, if we can extend this line, bearing in mind that this line goes to Kavala, we can give it once a week or two, as you say by your supplementary proposal, to Samothraki, is indeed in planning. To be able to give Alexandroupolis too, which I very much understand the importance of this connection, may be more difficult. I want to be honest. I do not reject it, but it takes very long time and perhaps we should look for other solutions to achieve the same goal. In any case, at the moment I cannot tell you that it will be done, but I am telling you what you know about it, and the Mayor of Samothrace knows it, that it is within the investigative designs and I hope that we will succeed. I can't tell you a hundred percent. In my denture, I will also speak about the port of Alexandroupolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u18	Minister, we are pleased that you have Samothraki's programme, but that's not good enough. Because Samothraki gets - with your own good will and intention - what belongs to her. But there's too much to Evros and Thrace. We cannot ignore these producers of cereals, cereals, animal feed, dairy products, poultry products, livestock products, which are too much. We are interested in the Lemnos market, we are interested in the Mytilini market, we are interested in the Attica market. It is not only the service of the island of Samothrace. It's all Thrace, it's all the Prefecture of Evros. Samothraki is a part of the Prefecture of Evros. In fact, I would like to say that we have the following tripartite, which I am trying and trying to make it a common property of all local and institutional actors and residents of the Prefecture of Evros: Progress and development of Evros, of all kinds. A prefecture model, Evros, in everything except your Ministry. You should show Evros as a model in the Ministry of which you are currently leading. Also, the Prefecture of Evros, with the island called Samothraki, should become a transit hub, because we have all potential. Next we have a large country, which is in the European Union, it is Bulgaria. On the other hand, it is Turkey, which is gigantic. Evros cannot be dispersed and "blind" from progress and development. You should give all these tools to become a transit hub. We're not asking for anything. We're asking for a line. And you'll see that this line will pay off. In particular, with regard to our third vision of Evros, I have already proposed a solution and perspective for the expansion and interconnection of the prefecture, both with regions of the country and internationally. The ferry connections we are requesting are the first stage of the conversion of Evros into a transit hub. In fact, I would like to present to you a document presenting a topographical document, which I will deliver to you shortly, with possible interconnectors between Evros, waterways, roads, railways, with enormous potential and potential. We can reach the Danube and the Danube with the rivers very quickly, by means of the two boats, road and rail, and by the rivers, we arrive very quickly in Central and Northern Europe. I think that this belongs to Evros and you should help to achieve it, because it is a brave decision and I have to say, in many cases. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The maritime connection of the county is necessary so that we can gradually turn and act outwardly with our interconnection, even - if necessary - with Turkey's coastline. We have Imbros and Tenedo, relative islands, which are near Samothrace. We have Aino, we have Kessani, Long Bridge, Andrianoupolis, Forty Churches. All these cities of eastern Thrace aim at Alexandroupolis and Alexandroupolis can very quickly reach the Aegean Sea. They can reach Attica. You should, I think, give the way out we need right now. From there on, I would like to remind you that your Ministry is responsible for the rules on the island clause. Indeed, the agreement which we have before us will certainly also bring some malfunctions, some consequences and I think that the insularity clause can be applied to cover some possible losses with equivalent measures. And I think we have rightly asked you in the past to extend the island clause to Evros as a term of accuracy. With these thoughts, Madam President, we are closing today's question and I thank you, Minister, for in fact, as I have heard from the mayor, but also from the local bodies of the Evros Prefecture, you are concerned with the launching of these requesting vessels we are claiming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u20	Mr Colleagues, I should like to congratulate you again, because in your speech you also confirmed what I found in your first speech, namely that you do not put any requests, but follow this request from an overall, I would say, planning for the development of the region of Evros, Samothraki and the surrounding area. In fact, you have also opened another interesting issue, the shipping of closed seas, lakes and rivers. In fact, there are Greek business owners operating in the river shipping, but in general in Greece and as far as the planning of the Ministry is concerned, no particular interest has been developed so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u21	Do it yourself. You two should lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u22	It is a debate that requires preconditions. If there's any interest, of course. A Ministry cannot begin to create river shipping routes unless there are conditions of entrepreneurship on the ground. It is very difficult to support such a project in public, even though it is required, if there is not the condition that I have told you. In order not to say the same again, the interest exists and the design will see where it will end up. However, I would like to point out something that I felt you are probably degrading it to your concerns, without touching on you. The subsidized coastlines have rules and limits by law, i.e. there are the free lines that are announced and anyone who wants to put a ship freely on any line of commercial interest chooses. The second stage is the lines of exclusive, free and non-subsidisable, but exclusive. Usually, when they are proclaimed - which is the second stage every year - nobody comes to any point in the country for the exclusive. The privilege is that there will be no competitor, no one will be alone, and yet it is not because the businessmen generally go to the lines - 'filette', those who have a strong interest and then wait for the rest, the subsidized. But what's going on? The subsidised lines concern islands that have no other way of connecting with the administrative centre, Samothraki, in which there is no line of commercial interest - this is the initial connection - and from there on with Attica. Yeah, but the island, not Alexandroupolis with Attica. Such planning goes beyond what we call a subsidised line. It could be explored by the local society, Evros, the possibility of connecting Alexandroupolis with a line of commercial interest with Samothrace and then the rest being subsidised. All of this can be seen, as can many others. As regards the port of Alexandroupolis, the port of Alexandroupolis has an approved master plan and, on this basis, is in a process of closure by the end of 2015, a project to evacuate the new port and excavate the port channel while creating a vital ground space with suitable excavations products. It is a 21.9 million-dollar project that will enable the immediate operation of the new container platform and the development of port infrastructure. The port facilities are also improved. A appropriation of 500,000 has been approved for Kamariotissa in Samothraki by drawing up studies for the development of a port development programme and there is a study of environmental impacts and many other stages. I say this in information - and you will probably know it - to raise another issue. Unfortunately, with the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the development of the trans-European transport network - Decision 1315/2013, in particular Annex 2 to the list of hubs of the central and extensive network - the port of Alexandroupolis did not join the trans-European transport network, and the airport was integrated, as is the cross-border section of Alexandroupolis - Gardens in other parts of the main network. This is all the planning of transport networks. And the port of Alexandroupolis stayed outside. As far as I know - and I have read studies about Kavala and Alexandroupolis and about the role each port can play, its specific features, the advantages each has - Alexandroupolis should be on the European transport network. I don't understand why he was excluded. At least on the part of the current government's political leadership, it is our intention - and we have had such discussions with our partners - to open the debate first to promote the port of Alexandroupolis as a port of the European transport network.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before I continue reading the questions, I would like to make a statement: ‘Athens, 13 July 2015. To the honorable President of Parliament. I wish to resign from the position of MP II Athens of SYRIZA. With appreciation, Nikos Hountis".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u24	The third, with number 407/6-7-2015, topical question for the second-cycle Member of Parliament, Mr.Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the need for a direct solution to the problems of the intra-Cyclades ferry services in the middle of a tourist season, will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Member. The fourth under number 416/7-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the financing programme and the operation of the children's stations will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The fifth, under number 411/6-7-2015, topical question by MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning interventions in the field of Mars, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The sixth question, under number 395/29-6-2015, of the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers, concerning the statements by the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr Nikolaos Kotzias during his visit to Skopje on 24-6-2015, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question, number 391/29-6-2015, topical question of the second question of the Achaias MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the work of the ERGOSE Tunnel, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The eighth Question No 401/30-6-2015 topical question of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of National Defence regarding the creditors' requirements for expenditure cuts in the Armed Forces will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The ninth under number 386/23-6-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the "measures to counter the asymmetrical threat due to the invasion of illegal immigrants on the Greek islands", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The tenth under number 377/23-6-2015 topical question by Ms Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the progress of important infrastructure projects in Messinia, such as the “Kalamata - Rizzomylos” projects, and the Perimeter of Kalamata will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The eleventh question, under number 356/16-6-2015, of the second question of the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the compulsory invoices of discounts and other possible suppliers' benefits to the super markets, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The twelfth under No. 219/14-5-2015 topical question of the second Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the provocative action of Skopje in Florina, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The thirteenth, with number 234/18-5-2015, topical question of the Attica MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on bilateral relations with the neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fourteenth under number 168/28-4-2015 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The fifteenth, with number 361/16-6-2015, is a topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning measures to restore intra-cyclical ship communication, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the honourable Member. Finally, the first question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, about the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "Aydinlik" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the claim of 16 Greek islands", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-13-S1-commons.u25	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.07, the sitting for the next Thursday, July 16, 2015, at 9.30, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a statement of reference and (b) a debate on topical and urgent questions.
