ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Following the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, ratified by n. Regulation (EC) No 3017/2002 (A'17)’. The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Before going on to the question of who would like to take the floor, I would like to make two announcements. The Group of the European People's Party - Golden Dawn is designated as a special speaker, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, for the debate on this ratification and the Communist Party defines as a special speaker Mr Stavros Tassos as a special speaker. Does one of my fellow Members want to take the floor here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u4	I would like to make it clear once again - and I mentioned it before - that the groups in Parliament can request and have the right to intervene, which in the committee have either declared a negative vote or a reservation. As far as I know, the Communist Party had a negative vote, the Golden Dawn had declared reservation. So, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor for five minutes to place yourself. Then Mr. Tassos follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u5	A few days ago, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we were committed to voting in the Standing Commission if there were any small positive steps. Anything that's positive for a better tomorrow's environment, you'll find us in agreement. But there are two brunettes: To begin with, we said - as I said before - that we will do our duty regardless of what states that have not ratified the Kyoto Protocol from the outset, and of course the states that have ratified it, but have not set a target for the second commitment period. The new list of harmful gases for the atmosphere includes a new gas, the nitrogen trifluoride, which was not previously included in the list. However, technological developments, due to the extensive use of this gas in the production of television and computer screens, now require that it be included in the list of these gases, especially because the correlation of a tonne of nitrogen trifluoride (NF3), emitted into the atmosphere, is equivalent to seventeen thousand to two hundred tons of carbon dioxide. As regards the addition to Article 3(1)(c), which refers to the mechanism for adopting more ambitious objectives, I do not think it needs any debate. I think it is imperative that a part - if possible - be able to establish more ambitious objectives than those it has set, without even requiring the consent of the rest. The addition to Article 3(7)b, which refers to the assigned quantities and cancels the already existing assigned units of a Party, should be considered subject to reservation. In the case of Greece, with the recession it is facing and if we assume that at some point multi-fast growth will come, we should, Minister, be prepared to join another framework, such as developing economies, in order to avoid any financial sanctions due to the overcoming of the proposed emission limits. This, of course, will not be necessary if economic growth is to have a purely ecological background and consciousness and if the industries, craft industries - and we are talking about biological cleansing - are to be treated as waste. But it also depends on how our development in renewable energy is going to proceed. With regard to the European Union's commitments: the European Union has taken joint responsibility in relation to paragraph 6 of Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol and Article 24(2). This is in agreement with us, since it provides for the Contracting Parties, which agree to share responsibility, to be able to define the agreement at the level of emissions proportionate to each of the Contracting Parties. However, we are impressed by the repeated reference to the explanatory statement to the draft law, and on page 3, paragraph (c), in the fact that a country that wants to set more ambitious targets - I mentioned it before - should, above all, obtain approval from the 3⁄4 of the others. On page 24, and in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, in the third paragraph, an amendment to the table in Annex II is provided. And go to page 16 and 17 where we see this painting. In particular, Minister, on page 17 it is explained that the asterisk countries - in Table 16 and Table 17 - are going through a transitional period in terms of the market economy. And here we are very surprised to see that Greece - unfortunately - has been among those countries that have developed economies and are in the same position as the other industrial countries of the European Union, when, as I said before, we have been in a recession since 2008. Here is a huge issue, Minister: How can all the evaluation houses have degraded us in relation to our financial capacity and, at the same time, be regarded by others as a strong economy? In closing and referring to the special report, and in particular to page 27, which tells us that there may be an additional burden on the State budget if the implementation and development of additional policies and measures are required for the fulfilment of the new obligations undertaken by our country and while we consider that there are indeed positive steps by ratifying the Doha amendment, we are voting'residents'. Unless there is a change in the table - which I mentioned before - Annex II and if there is a provision for the level of the government budget that may arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Mr Stavros Tassos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. For the JRC, Doha's amendment to the Kyoto Protocol is another page in the book of hypocrisy and cynicism to take measures to protect the climate and the environment in general. Climate protection measures are just as hypocritical as measures to protect refugees, both as regards the causes of their creation and the measures of supposed protection. And this is because neither too much nor much researchers of Lamont Doherti University of New York return the war to Syria and the emergence of ISIS extremists both in Syria and in Iraq that caused a drought record in Syria in 2006-2010, thus revealing that the scientific community, consciously or unconsciously, serves the designs and criminal activity of imperialists. The only thing that concerns those who drafted the Kyoto Protocol and the Doha amendment, like those who did the imperialist intervention in Syria - those who shed crocodile tears for refugees and the environment - is that they represent the interests of capitalist, imperialist states and the profitability of their multinationals. They are the same multinationals as "VOLKSWAGEN", who in the name of profits in World War II have worked with the Nazis and today tease their car brains to present false evidence. Against them are the interests of the workers and the people's layers, as well as the protection of the environment and the climate where land is. The Green economy's proposal, which is increasingly marked, serves essential and propaganda objectives of urban order at international level. The imperialist centres are concerned as the poor forecasts of the depth and duration of the crisis continue. They know well that their management proposals cannot cancel the manifestation of the crisis. They also know that popular indignation is growing. They are looking for a way out of satisfactory profitability for their overcompensated funds, which requires hunger wages, black employment relationships, temporary and part-time, elastic working hours, an increase in the level of exploitation of workers. At the same time, the people's family is being driven to a new burden to replace their old car, to modernise their home, etc., according to the new 'green' and in many cases, as evidenced, tempted, specifications. Their hypocrisy and cynicism are demonstrated by the following: Firstly, the largest greenhouse gas producer, the United States of America, has never ratified the Kyoto Protocol. Canada has left, China and India are participating, but are not committed, while Japan, Russia and New Zealand have not undertaken the obligations provided for in the Doha amendment. In other words, countries producing more than 80% of greenhouse gases are excluded from the Doha amendment, whereas the European Union, i.e. the Euro-Union capital, which participates, makes it conditional on applying the modification and reductions that other developed countries will commit themselves to specific reductions. Secondly and above all, which reveals the commercialisation of everything under the capitalist system, is the logic: 'The polluter pays'. By applying this logic, the aim of the big chapter is to consolidate new, flexible mechanisms supposedly to combat the greenhouse effect with the well-known polluting trade, with which companies buy rights to bomb the environment with more pollutants. They thus avoid applying antipollution technology because it costs them more than paying any fines. We, the JRC, propose another development path with an incentive to satisfy social needs rather than capitalist profit. It is presupposed that forests, water, shores and mineral wealth, ports, airports, road infrastructure and industries will become popular property, will be integrated into the central design of production and will ensure the rationality of man in nature. On this other path of development, with people's economy and power, new technologies will be developed, more nature-friendly and will be used to satisfy social needs and not profit, thus creating a similar ecological awareness. That is why we are voting against Doha's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u10	Mr Bassiakos had asked for the floor, and as far as I can see, you want the floor, Mr. Kafantaris. By way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, we shall give the floor to both for two minutes. But before you start, let me have a communication. The Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Education, Research and Religion, Economic, Environment and Energy, and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Energy submitted a draft law on 12-11-2015: "Bossible land of Greece and other provisions". This draft is referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Mr. Bassiko, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. It is true that the bill of ratification of the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol was discussed last Tuesday only two hours in the relevant parliamentary committee, where we had the opportunity to develop our positions. Obviously the New Democracy is in favour of the amendment. However, as I have noted in committee and did not receive a satisfactory response from the Deputy Minister, Mr Tsironi, unfortunately there was not a sufficient information to Parliament in relation to the developments that were taking place at the Paris Conference in a few days' time. This is particularly important, because a parliament which is unreasonable in terms of developments and, in particular, the position of the Greek side, cannot decide with soberness and with good judgment as to ratify this amendment. I have noticed there that a number of issues are coming late or that there are questions which remain unanswered. I'm not talking about all the ministers. We have been informed at the previous sitting of the parliamentary committee of ratification the following day. And that is bad because neither rapporteurs nor obviously information was found to the participants in the debate in the parliamentary committee. Then there was a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which did not involve the members of the Committee on Production and Trade in order to be aware of any developments concerning the Paris Conference. The main thing, however, is that topical questions are raised in the House, which are not answered because of the absence of the Ministers. Yesterday, only the two were discussed. So the Member has no opportunity of informing himself. And I am referring to a personal situation where I have twenty unanswered questions from the Ministry of the Environment for sixty questions from the previous period. Mr. Skourletis, you were in the political leadership, even for a short time. I do not personally account for you, but for any political leadership. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are twenty specific issues of the Ministry of the Environment - I have another twelve in Boeotia and ten in general - which are unanswered. Mr President, I shall put to the House the table of unanswered questions, many of them concerning the environment, about climate change, about what Ban Ki Moon said to the European Parliament on the issues to be discussed in Paris in the next few days, about gas, electricity and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Bassiko, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u13	I therefore believe that this practice must be stopped, because a Parliament cannot be informed without making decisions. It's important. I repeat that the New Democracy is voting in favour of this amendment concerning the second binding period, but I cannot highlight this. Let me just say one more thing: there can be no questions in Parliament, no answers to the House, and no information is available to the House - and the Member first - with the mission by the Ministry in the form of a PDF text or in the form of a Word of the reply, so that the content of the answers to the Greek people can be known. It is not possible for the ministers to refuse to send the answer in the electronic form I have told you so that it can go through the blogs as well. This is a request which I address to you and the Bureau, Mr President, and I believe that it will be taken seriously. In other words, this work cannot be done and expresses the wishes and wishes of the Greek people - because, with that logic, the Member is asking questions - that they do not get to the people's knowledge in order to make such decisions and make their views known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Bassiko. Mrs. Kafantaris has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u16	We've opened a new circle now. Do you want the floor, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u18	We'll hang up with Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u19	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u20	And Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, first of all I thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u22	Your time didn't start. I would ask the two-minute term to be consistent, because it will be followed by parliamentary scrutiny. Before you begin, Mrs. Kafantaris, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 11th Graduate School of Galatium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, first of all thank you for giving me the floor. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the procedure, as you rightly said, say that those who agree with sanctions - because this is about the draft law - do not speak in this House. Unfortunately, I would say, because it is a big and serious issue. Apart from the fact that there has been a debate in the respective Commission, there is still a debate, Mr Bassiako, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u24	In the Committee on Production and Trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u25	...and next week, someone can watch her if she's interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u26	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u27	The point is that, unfortunately, there has not been a debate in plenary, by way of derogation, of the Rules of Procedure, on this big issue, the challenge of the 21st century concerning climate change. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tassos, climate change is a great class issue. I say this because we have heard the representative of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u28	Are you telling us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u29	What are the most affected by the consequences of climate change? The poor, the poor countries. So it also has a class dimension, beyond its great importance for humanity. I think, therefore, that this amendment, which relates to the Kyoto Protocol and the incorporation of a decision into Doha, is also very important. [[Noise from the wing of the Communist Party of Greece]] Please, let me talk. It concerns specific commitments, which came with regard to the Kyoto Protocol, which expired in 2012 and substantially extended its validity until 2020. I would like to say something about this particular conference in Paris. Here I would like to make a reference and say that the Ministry over time, as well as the Ministry's staff dealing with climate change, is doing a specific job, praiseworthy, I would say. And I have seen this in close proximity to the last three conferences on behalf of the Greek Parliament. So in Paris, we must have a conference that will in fact accept a legally binding agreement replacing the Kyoto Protocol and which will apply from 2020. I will inform you that about the last three weeks the United Nations has provided a draft for this agreement. This preliminary draft has encouraging signs and includes proposals and commitments of large pollutants. Even the United States, ladies and gentlemen, of the JRC, are committed not to the base year 1995, but from 2005 onwards. The major polluters enter this process. It's the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u30	Mrs. Kafantari, finish it. We said derogating, with tolerance to all the representatives of the parties, but do not abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u31	Wait a minute. We are talking about a global issue concerning humanity. They must all be involved accordingly. And I would say that the Montreal Protocol, which was about the ozone hole, has worked for the environment, for the planet, because they were all involved. So everyone must be in the battle against climate change, which, as I said, has a class mark. On the other hand, the countries, the major polluters, must be involved in this green fund. And that's the big problem of conferences in recent years, which is who they're going to pay for. And we have representatives of states - especially in Asia - to come to the conferences and say: 'Do something. In a few years my country will not exist, because it will have been covered by the sea as a result of rising water levels due to also climate change." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Mr. Amyras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. You will exhaust your rigour on me in time, but it doesn't matter. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is not just a classic issue of dealing with climate and global warming. It's mostly a stroke. And to understand what I mean, I'm talking about how we manage reality outside of us and around us. For example, since we are talking - and I will be coming straightaway - about changing Doha, as I said in committee, see PPC: in 2014 it had a turnover of EUR 5 billion. Investment - I tell you, for example - was in EUR 102 million mining projects and in renewable energy sources EUR 8 million, that is to say, in terms of total investment in the volume of money spent by PPC 1.27%. In a country in which the sun is abundant, the wave and air are inconceivable to be captive of fossil fuels. Only with a shift in the RES, the country will be able to come to the clearest in terms of energy. Now, as far as the Doha amendment is concerned, we of course agree. We have said so in committee too. We also address a series of questions to the Deputy Minister for the Environment, Mr Tsironi, who had come to the committee to inform us of the UN climate conference in Paris. Unfortunately, we have not yet received answers, despite the fact that he committed himself to answering what I at least asked him. He wasn't ready that day. I was hoping we'd have some answers today. In any case, and I am closing down two minutes ago, Mr President: the country must make use of its comparative advantages, which are its minds and the climate itself. And is the European Union not going to do - and very well - things that are at the forefront of tackling climate change? Whatever it does, when 85% of the pollutants are outside these commitments, it's like pushing the balloon on the one hand and hoping it won't rise on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of this bill, because since December 2012, when the amendment of the Kyoto Protocol was decided in Doha, we have taken the first steps to allow this amendment to be accepted by the European Commission and by the Member States. But I must once again testify to our protest, because once again a contract that could have come many weeks ago and had the time to discuss it, it also comes in this particular way. I would also like to say a few things about the objectives set by the European Commission for the Environment and about what the objectives of the country's government are in any case. The European Commission originally intended to adopt only 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and as a non-binding objective first of all the introduction of renewable energy sources into the energy balance of the Member States by 27%. At the initiative of the Greek Presidency and with the participation of five other states, we have forced the committee to change its proposal and to integrate energy savings, which until then did not exist in the European Commission's proposals. I would therefore like to remind all of us - because I am sure we know this - the Greek position, the national position towards climate change and the commitments it has made and are five: 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a national target for 30% of the introduction of renewable energy sources into the energy balance, 30% compulsory energy savings mainly through buildings, 100% introduction of smart cash into the electricity consumption of Greek households and, finally, the fifth objective by 2030 to have a 100% electricity interconnection of all Greek islands with the mainland. To stop, in other words, what is valid for years, pay the Greek people, the Greek state from between EUR 600 and 800 million each year, to buy fuel oil and oil, so that they can obtain electricity and maintain the power plants in Rhodes, Crete and the other major islands of the country. These five objectives, I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are, today, undeniable national priorities, to be committed, to commitment that these five priorities, which have been set, continue to be priorities for the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Saridis has said, our special speaker, we will vote in favour of the amendment to the Kyoto Convention, because it is an international obligation on the country and, on the other hand, to give hope to the protection of the environment. Unfortunately, a question arises in plenary today. I, who was not a member of the Trade Committee, did not hear what the results of the previous period 2008-2012 were, if the targets of limiting emissions set then under the Kyoto Convention, at least for the Greek territory, were achieved, what percentage was successful or not, so that we can see on the path if the next period 2013-2020 there is hope to be something. I shall express a personal opinion, Mr President, and I shall say this: In the period 2012, 2013, until 2015, one is the great polluter of Greece. PPC. So in plenary we should have heard what measures were taken by PPC for the first period of the Kyoto Convention to reduce its emissions. It's a very serious matter. I have not heard the Minister or the deputy, because in the end these obligations of PPC are passed on to the Greek taxpayer. There is the special charge for reducing emissions of pollutants. I had the requirement in the explanatory memorandum to the law, which calls for us to vote and vote for the extension of the agreement in time with its amendments, to listen to this special fee, which is a tax and which is charged to every account of PPC. In fact, yesterday I read in the newspapers that PPC has been cutting the current in the last few days to fifteen thousand consumers. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I shall finish, Mr President. Evidently these include unemployed, familymen, people who fail to live above the poverty line. Let's see what happens. The Greek citizen is taxed for PPC. It was a claim that we had from the Minister in the plenary debate to answer. However, because we regard it as an international obligation, we will vote in favour of the agreement and its extension, but we will not allow this crucial point to remain unanswered. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr. Skourletis has asked for the floor. Is that two minutes enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u40	Pour three.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u41	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the environment does not have any reductions and compensation. It is contradictory on the one hand to recognise the need to ratify the contract and, on the other, to start 'yes, but...'. There is a need here for a global front to defend the environment. You know very well that it is a prerequisite for Europe to ratify this agreement by all its members. And that's the head start so that the hundred and forty-four members of the hundred ninety-two of Kyoto can ratify it. It cannot be invoked by other countries, which are violating the limits, which have been declared to be developing, while in reality they have now escaped from this stage, to be the alibi for us, not to set specific national targets and to be consistent. I would like to inform you that Greece has taken up the objectives set in the previous period. So for an environment that sends a lasting SOS no second thoughts. It was put before a question. Does the environmental case have a class mark or not? First of all, I would like to say that the impact of the environment, climate change, all those living on this planet are suffering. And in that sense there is an orderly dimension. The classics that's due? Be careful, because I'm saying it for you, Mr. Tassos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u43	Oh, well again. We'll have to answer... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u44	Watch out. The classics that's due? The fact that modern capitalism proclaims as a first and highest value at the expense of the environment, at the expense of health, at the expense of climate change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u45	Previous capitalism did something else?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u46	So the subject is not as simple as that and it needs a more modern view of things and more multilateral. I'll finally talk about PPC, and I'll finish. You referred to something in the newspapers with many dimensions. Yesterday, in fact, I read in a large newspaper that PPC is about to cut seven hundred thousand connections. You're lying. Absolutely false. I'm in constant contact. In fact, a few days ago, I called the administration and the commercial directors and asked them to tell me exactly what was going on. You know that PPC has accumulated debts of 2,2 billion euros. A huge amount that is now upsetting her whole. And that must concern us. However, what we are concerned about is that the necessary householding must be done and must be done with absolute social sensitivity. So no social invoices are cut. No one's cutting. No one who has mechanical support and can carry the corresponding attestations is not cut off. I would like to inform you that as far as the farmers who have not yet received their subsidies are concerned, we have agreed that there will be no power cuts. And I can assure you that I myself, as a political leader, will be in constant contact with them so that we do not have social injustice. But, business, for example - I see Mr Santorinio - large hotel units in Rhodes, which have not been paying for years, eh, some time they have to pay. In places with the largest tourist traffic, municipal enterprises since '12 have not paid once. There are examples of this. Should I tell you about areas in our country where PPC went to cut off in municipal power, and since the ten that hadn't paid anything since '12, did PPC get the money all set up? So I understand that there is also the need for the household - necessary households, not all of us - to pay for it - and, of course, to show the required social sensitivity, which is much greater nowadays, because of the great tolerance which prevails in a large part of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby concluded: "Following the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, ratified by n. Regulation (EC) No 3017/2002 (A'17)’. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u48	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u49	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u50	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u51	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u52	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u53	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u54	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u55	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u56	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Principle of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, ratified by n. 3017/2002 (A'117)’ has been accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and all of it, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u58	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent questions debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House the current Question Time issue on Monday 16 November 2015: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the support and use of the National Centre for Quality Control, Classification and Standardization of cotton in the Cardits Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 113/10-11-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the pensions of the OGA. 3. The question by No 108-10-11-2015 of the President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the need for improvement projects in the port infrastructure of the country. 4. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the European School of Heraklion and on the coverage of educational gaps in the schools of Crete. 5. The question by number 120/10-11-2015 of the Z' Vice President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of health workers as subsidiary or through CIRRN at the public health units. 6. The 116/10-11-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the self-reliance of the Greek Open University. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 106/10-11-2015 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Excellency to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the construction of a frontal toll station on the Shamari-Chalkida motorway. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 123/10-11-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the evolution of the process of building the Nicholian prisons of the Prefecture of Drama. 3. The Question No 109-10-11-2015 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about "the transfer of our name to the Skopje". 4. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the lifting of a limitation of 20 thousand for the free transfer of students of daily and Estonian PAALs. 5. The question by No 121/10-11-2015 by MP Aitolakarannia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the problems of the operation of the TEI of Central Greece and in particular of the Annex amphissa. 6. The question by number 117/10-11-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister of Health, about the lack of a crownist at the General University Hospital of Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We enter the debate of the third under No 99-9-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of the single payment and compensation to farmers in the country. The Minister will answer Mr Evangelos Apostleou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, from January to today you have made the situation that you have received worse. You have not improved either the position of farmers or the agricultural sector as a whole on any subject. Of course, this is not only due to the Ministry of Rural Development but also to the general government's policy, which brought the unjustified genaris to a third memorandum in such a way that its measures are largely related to the agricultural sector. The tax evasion measures in the agricultural sector, whether those which you have already imposed or those which come, are a mistake by the government and we have told you too many times. Don't weep any more that you've been imposed. Mr. Moscovici here in Athens made things clear. All tax measures are a proposal from the Greek Government. And because, by proposing the overtaxation of the agricultural sector, you closed your eyes to the bourgeois, saying 'but the farmers have so far been tax-railers', and Mr Alexiadis's obscured no paper came to tell us about the size of the tax evasion that takes place in the agricultural sector. The destiny - I repeat - this dirty non paper. You should tell us what the plan is in the end and make it clear whether or not the CAP and the Rural Development Programme had been established by the previous governments or you. Because you are presenting us that the Rural Development Programme is supposedly yours and that the CAP is the previous government, the previous one - to be precise. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. You have not wondered why the questions do not concern the existence or non-financing? That is not what Members ask you. That is not what the citizens ask you. Why? It is well known that 19.5 billion has been guaranteed for the agricultural sector, 13.5 billion direct payments, 6 billion for the Rural Development Programme and, of course, about sixteen, for the ESDP, for the rest of the sectors. From January until today, the advance we had received for the Rural Development Programme - and this is the proof that it had been closed before - you managed to get it from the OPECE, repos and pay the IMF without having returned it to this day. Tell us when you'll be back. You have also taken tens of millions from the ELGA, made it repos and did not tell us when you will return it, while you have unpaid compensation for 2014, as of course you will in 2013. Is that possible? We need specific dates! I will not ask you today when subsidies will be granted, because you do not know that either. I will ask you in particular: When will you issue temporary rights for Greek farmers and farmers? When will you have completed grazing plans? These are specific questions and I do not want any theories, I do not want to know when the subsidies will be paid, because it also depends on other factors. Please tell me two specific things that are your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u62	You have put a lot of time, my dear colleague, and I would like time. Maybe some people say in my dentistry. Did we really get worse in the country? And you say that the third memorandum is unnecessarily inappropriate when you yourself were still pressing us to sign an agreement completely open, what the partners want to put? We voted for this agreement together, yes or no? Didn't you know on the evening of July 12 that the committee's mandate, led by our Prime Minister, also had reference to matters relating to rural areas? Then on 17 July you voted for this agreement? We'll say more. I don't want to parade. But, because your position really causes me, do you want me to tell you what was the most characteristic example of what we received? I have told you - and I repeat - that we received two files with 1.5 billion fines due to the poor management of Community aid, which have already been finalised and which we are obliged to pay every year. We have already given the first amount of more than 250 million. And, of course, they force us to recover from farmers another $1 billion, 1.5 billion against them. And when this list is released - because we are making an effort at this time to ease, reduce, exclude too many farmers - this list will be brought to you, because you are obliged to agree, because you have not done anything specifically in this part of the recovery. But farmers now want to hear what we are going to do about payments. Indeed, they have been, are made and start payments from 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and will arrive until 2014. I mean, we're talking about loose ends that really show how you handled these issues and how we're going to manage them today. In view of the fact that we have a new common agricultural policy, which certainly starts with other data. But you know that when we have always had the beginning of a single common agricultural policy, there was a delay, how much more for us, when we have all the problems that I have told you before, and we are obliged from now on to move towards the proper and honest management of Community aid. We so far have no fines. But there are constantly fines coming to the Ministry from your management. Now, as far as the single payment is concerned: we are committed - and our commitment is concerned - that at the end of November we will receive the single payment, which will exceed 70%. After all, you know - and we will communicate - that the new common agricultural policy is reduced by 10% to 15%. You voted for it. We, when the revision time comes in 2017, will table our own proposals. And, of course, there is also the 'creaming' - and you know it - that goes to February. So our commitment is true. Payments, as I told you, will be completed by mid-December, as will all outstanding until the end of 2014. With regard to the ELGA you invoked. I inform you that the ELGA in 2015 had paid – by the end of July 122,5m euros, when in 2014 it had paid EUR 106m, depleting the possibilities of the budget adopted by the previous administration and, of course, after we had made an amendment. In fact, in order to complete the compensation payment and 2014, we have scheduled EUR 36 million, which will be provided and paid after the evaluation has been completed. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have a plan. We really aim to serve, through the rural area, the country's productive reconstruction. At this point in time, we are interested in making payments in time and, of course, in negotiating with our lenders, making the effects of an agreement that has painful aspects, which, but also you and us, have voted for, because we thought that the European course of rural space, particularly at this time, is very useful for the simple reason that a total amount of around 3.5 billion a year cannot be put at risk for rural areas. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because every time they ask you, you say about fines, we always say that fines have been imposed, but the ministers have had the courage to say about what cases and to say not to be repeated. You do not have the courage to ask a question that Mr Jellonis asked you, nor yesterday in a question from another colleague, nor today to say that it was mainly Mr Hatzigakis. And you know why you don't have the courage? Because in August 2014 on camera, in public, you said that Mr Hatzigakis was doing well because farmers benefited. This on camera, Mr. Apostle. From the quality of the positions and the move you have in your positions, thankfully that the previous government has negotiated both the rural development programme and the new CAP, because if with the quality of the documentation you have, you have been responsible, unfortunately the losses would be enormous. Well, thank God. However, what have you done ten months since, in your statement, the CFP pushed you out of the previous government and did not issue the provisional rights so that aid could be granted as early as October? Why didn't you draw up the grazing plans under the new CAP? Why? I asked you today when they will be made and you said that you will give the subsidies by the end of the month. I asked you until when rights would be granted, which is something that goes before. I also asked you when the grazing plans are to be issued, which also precedes rights. The way you go about it will damage the country further. The third memorial, I told you, was inappropriate to January. With your unjust and unlucky policy, with the figures of Yiannis and the support of Mr. Tsipras, with everything the Greek people know, the third loan was of course necessary. And we supported the crucial time for the third loan to be taken. But the measures are yours. Because if you personally disagreed, you'd declare it. You were singing something, "I disagree, but what should I do? The financial staff..." "What is written doesn't erase", and to a delegation of farmers who came and found you, you said that afterward you were asked. These are all excuses. You chose to load a large part of the adjustment, which you charged to the Greek people, in the agricultural sector. And while it was 8 billion the result of the negotiation until you opened the referendum, you brought about 14.5 billion budgetary measures. And you're not ashamed to support it! And you come here today to say that the partners imposed them when Moscovisi himself yesterday said they were decisions and choices of the Greek Government! Aren't you in the Greek Government? Aren't you a member of the Ministerial Council? Are you denounced by someone else? Who? So here we come to see this: were you fit or not assigned a third pension? And you cut off all the twelve they took! Did you or did you not say that you would exclude the parcels from HIS tax? And you came and abolished the refund of the oil tax, and you came to charge twice as much taxes as the farmer. You have indirectly legislated on subsidies, on the taxation of aid, and even on production. You said that ‘the means of production, the parcel, cannot be taxed’. The government delayed, supposedly, to find a solution - it was delayed to go after the elections - and came and loaded them more. Is it possible after such choices and after you rejected our proposal - which was expressed three times in writing and in an amendment - for 20% deduction of imputable expenditure from income, as the first year of application of 13%, to come today and tell us that because a file with fines came and you did not have what to do and you negotiated them, did you impose everything else? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kegeroglu, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u66	To clarify things, because you're asking, I can answer what you're asking, but I'm not the Minister, you are. When will the 259 million, which is the advance payment of the Rural Development Programme, which had come as a result of the previous government negotiating and you took it to the IMF? The 50-60 million when will they return to ELGA, so that she can get personal and quickly make assessments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u67	Let me tell you that you're lying to everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u68	Minister, don't interrupt. You can use your dentistry and answer later. Mr. Kegeroglu, you're finishing up. You've already spent five minutes and we're going for six.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u69	Do you want me to testify with Mr Lafazan's signature, but also your informal notes, by signing yours, to the administration of OPEKEPE? Do you want to? Not now. I won't. But there is, and when I have to, I'll do it. So answer us: When will you issue temporary rights? When will the money be returned to their place to catch a place, what was the result of the previous government negotiating? When will you complete the grazing management plans? The rest at the rally! Because you also made the farmers mad. While three years did not make mobilizations, on the 18th of the month they have been mobilized in Athens and you say "But after the Apostle solved everything. How are they mobilizing? People are irrational." So all of a sudden, they came to mobilize them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Kegeroglu, (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u71	He doesn't want, Mr. Pappa, help Mr. Apostle. He knows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're obviously done. Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u73	Mr Kegeroglu, I would really say that at least I did not expect - because I have known you for so many years and we have been here many times, especially in the rural area - to express itself in this way today. I have previously used the word 'fake'. Lie and I'll tell you why. First of all, where does it come from, Mr Kegeroglu, that grazing plans are needed today to guarantee payments? Where did you get that thing from? No regulation says that, no Greek legislation. We are doing a pioneering job so that we can take advantage of the possibility that we have 30 million acres in our country to help sheep and goats. This is a visionary approach - you have not understood it either - about what will happen tomorrow, tomorrow in the field of ovine and caprine animals. So there's no commitment. As far as rights are concerned, you can be sure that this procedure has already been completed. We really want it to be matched by the time the payments are made. And as you can see, we are not making rough approaches. You spoke about OPEKEPE and ELGA's money. I have said a hundred times in this Chamber that they involved advance money from the Rural Development Programme, which will only be repaid or offset when the Rural Development Programme is completed, and at the same time I told you - and I repeat - that they were at zero interest rates in a banking institution and we took them to repos at 2.4%. Was that a damage to the rural area? Where did you see that the ELGA cannot pay, when I told you the payments made and, indeed, overcoming what the establishment plan provides for ELGA, that it will not make payments beyond a certain limit? And we are now in a process of additional approval to pay another 36 million. The 104 million last year together with 36 million is a total for ELGA 170 million for our coming year. And because you are putting the issue of taxation in particular, would you like me to mention the specific circular 116/10-06-2015 which clarifies the identification of income obtained from individual rural business? Let me tell you what the circular says, which then Special Secretary Savvaidou has come out? By your law, namely Law No 4172/2013 for the first time, compensation is taxed, and indeed you introduced 13% of the first euro. That's what you did. And we come in the summer of 2015 - I do not say that, the relevant circular that has been implemented - and we say that aid, subsidies, all the compensation - you have even set the compensation where there is a constitutional ban - up to EUR 12 000 will not enter the taxable material. Do you know how much benefit there was for farmers? Farmers have saved EUR 130 million for the income of 2014, 2015 and again in the year 130,000 euros will be saved. You have charged this to farmers, and you say that we have made the position of farmers worse, when only this move understands what benefit it has brought to the rural area. And I keep going. We are currently negotiating with our lenders, and we do have many scenarios, starting with the introduction of duty-free. We will also see what will happen with the revenue and expenditure books, where there will be a VAT collection that can also work as equivalent. We will also see what we will do with the main-professional farmers. There is a debate on this. I don't have time to report the scripts. We defend the rural area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you're slowly finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u75	And I really want to say something about it. You mentioned - you, with your specific attitude - the Deputy Minister of Finance, for a non paper, that he says the farmers tax-bunkers. It is Mr Alexiadis who will now fight in the negotiations to defend farmers. At least for a few things we've given the battle to keep it, we'll fight. The rural area, knowing it, Mr. Kegeroglu, is still hoping for us. The Ministry of Rural Development is open, we are meeting, we are talking with farmers, even at this difficult time we are in regular communication. So, for us at least, it is the future of the rural world that, as I said before, through the design we have, will serve the number one issue that the Greek economy currently has, that is to say, emerge from the crisis. And it will come out of the productive reconstruction of this site.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and two educational attendants from the 23rd Keratsini Municipal School. Welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first question under number 103/10-11-2015 of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakrias to the Minister of Environment and Energy, concerning the authorisation of the fishing plant in Porto Germenos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second question under number 111/10-11-2015 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Athens, New Democracy, Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need to exclude Persons with Disabilities and Heavy Mobility from the new reductions in the third memorandum, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth under number 122-10-11-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the programme "Help to Home" (P.B.S.).), it will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The fifth question under number 102-10-11-2015 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki, Mr.Akaterini Markos, to the Minister of Health, on dealing with the financial problems of Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. We will now discuss the sixth question under number 115/10-11-2015 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning the German automotive industry "VOLKSWAGEN". This timely question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for coming. We will be brief enough to have time to see how we resolve and what the government is going to do about this very important and sensitive issue, which concerns both consumers and the Greek public, and to link it to the environment, which was also the previous debate we had on the ratification of the changes in Doha in relation to the Kyoto Convention. The 'VOLKSWAGEN' scandal is very well known to everyone. I have two press releases from 22-9 and 2-10, and I also tabled the topical question at 6-11. In Greece nine thousand cars have been released in this car industry. It is known that it concerns two thousand cubic engines installed in the “VOLKSWAGEN”, “SEAT”, “AUDI”, but in America there were more than three thousand cubic engines in the “CAYENNE” and “AUDI” large-scale Diesel. There have been applications for revocation in all countries. Norway, Germany, the United States have started lawsuits. The level of pipelines to the manufacturer of Germany VOLKSWAGEN in America amounts to 18 billion euros. In Greece, the public relations of the company, which is the importer of cars, have made a simple announcement by means of a press release. At the same time I would like to inform the Greek Parliament, the Bureau and the Minister, who I am sure he is aware of, that the European Parliament adopted a resolution on 27 October - I have the resolution here, and I will deal with my second language - which has extended it - and we will judge it and why - the use and control mechanisms for polluting engines and engine control, whether this check is carried out in motion or in the laboratory. This is something very important, which we should see. We ask the Government, the Minister, ourselves, what measures does the relevant Ministry intend to take to address the problems arising from the sale of vehicles? Will this company be given criminal responsibility for cheating both Greek public and consumers? Here I must say that there are two issues. The representative also has responsibility - I will say it in my dentistry - but also the construction company under the Greek law and decisions of the Ice Authority. Which entity controlled cars with "expressed" software? Did he have the adequate structure? Are you going to go to research to make them accountable? And I mean the Greek control mechanism. In addition to the ‘VOLKSWAGEN’ vehicles, the ‘AUDI’ and ‘PORSCHE’ have a problem. Have these brands been checked on the Greek market? Finally, what are the government's proposals, in order to create efficient vehicle control conditions in our country and what is the business plan, so that stricter emission control criteria are applied? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I will give you the reply from the service so that you may have it. Thank you very much for your timely question. It is very good, and we have worked very hard on this issue. I would like to inform Parliament that vehicles in our country are not only nine thousand and nineteen vehicles in VOLKSWAGEN, but they are about twenty-one thousand vehicles, nineteen thousand of which have been imported by official importers. In fact, I would like to say that vehicles running in our country with this software of fictitious sizes are twenty-one thousand seventy-nine vehicles. To have an exact number on which they have been imported by official importers, I tell you that these are nineteen thousand four hundred sixty-four. Two hundred and forty-four of them have been withdrawn from circulation. So you have an accurate picture of the vehicles and what we have. What are the measures we intend to take? There is a ready provision for setting fines, which has been included in the draft law ‘Strategies for the strategic planning of public infrastructure, procedures for the transparency of central control in the system for the production of public and private projects and other provisions’. If you want, I can give it to you and make comments or corrections. Next week the bill will be in consultation anyway and this provision will be included.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u80	I'll see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u81	A regulation is also being considered, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, both for the harm suffered individually by the citizens and for the damage suffered by the community as a whole. And we say this in relation to the fraud on the basis of which these companies and laboratories that have certified this technology have submitted not only the Greek state but also all the countries. Cooperation with the relevant ministries exists. There is also correspondence with the Secretary-General for Trade and Consumer Protection in order to deal with the matter definitively. [[At this point, the end of the time bell of the Secretary-General is ringing on several occasions.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment, because this is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u82	The Bureau is giving it to Members and ministers, but we are not going to go far enough. You have a second, at least three minutes' right. You know that. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u83	I conclude with the answer to your first question and will continue in my dentext with the rest. It should also be noted that in addition to fraud in the type approval process, all possible areas of assessment of the missing revenues or damage to the public interest of citizens will be examined, including registration fees, traffic charges and any financial incentives for the withdrawal of vehicles - these concern the Ministry of Finance - as well as the potential or rather certain damage to the environment, for which we are working with the Minister responsible for taking into account, as I told you about the General Secretariat of Trade. The rest of the answers I'll give you in dentistry, so we'll have a time economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kammene, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u85	Minister, it is very important that the information you have given us is very important. Thank you. You covered me. In dentistry, I had a list of the issues that I would bring, to see how we will resolve the issue, both as far as the consumer and the representative, VOLKSWAGEN. Let me inform the House, however, about the observation of a decision by the Ice Bay - for all of us - of No. 1574/2014, which says: 'Aspect to this aspect of the right of personality may be caused and when the benefit of the natural environment is disrupted, particularly as regards the atmosphere, the emission of pollutants and fumes. If the broadcast is so strong as to threaten the health of the people, then an insult arises as an additional emphasis on the general right of that individual to the most specific right to health.’ It is clear that I am saying this to the support of what you are saying. We'll be here to help. Also - it is not your responsibility - I also have an update that the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Attorney's Prosecutor's Office has ordered a prosecutor's order. If that's the case, confirm it. In the question now and in the decision of 27 October, we see that the European Parliament - together with the others in the Minutes and in the other Members - is, in contrast, extending the procedure for the control of engines, whether in the natural environment or in the laboratory, for two years and possibly extend it until 2021. This shows a tolerance, which is a controller - to use a nice word - of all the citizens of Europe. The European Commission was obviously influenced by the lobbies of the automobile industry, for which here - I am sure - its competing companies 'VOLKSWAGEN' in Europe have not brought any action for unfair competition or infidelity against the consumer or anything else for their rights by losing market shares from counterfeiting. This is worth noting. I would therefore like to make an intervention through our MEPs and through the Ministry - and we would also like to help - in order to speed up these processes, to bring the limit closer to 2017 or 2021, because we cannot subject the European consumer to taxes and green certificates and fines against environmental pollution. One is the economic issue, but it is not the substance, but as the Martian Ice said, it is a matter of health. As far as people get sick because some industries are practically falsifying the facts and at the same time burdening the state health systems, the patients, the medicines and the car manufacturers or those who sell the medicines, we are not here, and the Greeks in particular, in a position and nor are we in the mood to plead for this. I'll leave the decision to read it and criticize it and fix it. I will also leave in the minutes the 2013 emissions survey - and 2015, which is shown here in the survey - is great, anyone who wants to read it - that there was evidence of counterfeiting by the car industry and not just in 2013. I leave it to read it. It also says here that, by way of derogation from all laws, France and Germany in Europe, with 20% and 4% respectively, are increasing pollutants due to increased use of coal as raw material. In conclusion, I would like to say something about Kyoto and renewable energy. It's about it. We must understand that the 'false figures' - and I say in introductory terms - mines are that we have given about 30 billion RES subsidies. When it cost the RES 500 euro current, the megawatt and coal current 80, we were all subsidised by the banks by someone to go to make an investment in a material with a five-fold price, which we put into PPC's account, to collect. Then came the state, first Spain and then other countries, and they saw the fraud, because it was financial and banking fraud to pay the European consumer five times the current of the RES, and I will give you an example. We're talking about vulnerable groups. A machine that maintains a human in an intensive treatment unit can not function either with photovoltaic or windproof. I think it's clear. So this has turned around and became a huge source of red loans, in Europe over 50 billion, and in Greece about 3 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Cammene, I think you're out of the climate of the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u87	"climate" is a nice word. But when we come to ratify here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u88	Yes, look now, not every fellow Member can become a Member on the occasion of his question to open up an issue that he might rightly wish to speak about. This is not the time and procedure to intervene in this way. Please hang up. You conclude with regard to your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u89	We need to know, however, whether we need to vote in favour. Without knowing what the RES means, we should not take public action. I thank the Minister for the actions he has taken so far, with whom we are in agreement, and I would ask him to have all the information so that next week we can make the moves we have to make together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u90	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm what Mr Kammens said. In fact, there is a public prosecutor's investigation, and I will also present to you the relevant document which asks us to appoint officials in order to provide information from the checks carried out by the Ministry. And apparently the prosecution investigation will be completed, and then criminal responsibilities will be sought. About which body checked the cars with the tested software, in fact - because they are Mrs. Canelle here, so that they do not correct me - the software is not tempted, which they deliberately used, are tempted with the results that the software gives, while it should have given the real results. So the companies involved in this story deliberately did it, and they will obviously have economic responsibilities and others. There are other companies - apart from the vehicles - that we have sought. Let me read to you which other companies they are, so you know them. They are the companies 'AUDI', 'SKODA' and 'SEAT'. There are correspondence with both the foreign laboratories and the European Commission to see if other companies are involved, as you are asking. As far as who does the certification is concerned, so far it has been done by the laboratory and the authorities of the car-producing country. In Germany, therefore, the body is KBA, while in Greece the Ministry has not issued any relevant approval, since European legislation, when certifications are made in a European laboratory or in a state authority in another member country, is obliged to accept it. These tests shall be carried out with special equipment. Where it is found that vehicles do not comply with the type approved in accordance with Article 30 of the Directive, the approval authority of the country - Germany - must take the necessary measures. There is contact with the competent laboratory - and we are tabling this to you - and there is also contact with the car importers - and this is for your information - who have responded in detail. There was a job in the Ministry and all the information was found for all nineteen thousand four hundred sixty-four vehicles. Contained in cd. We give it to the Minutes so that you can use it. As for what's going on with us here, with the lab in the country, I'll tell you the following. Firstly, with regard to the emission control standards at the time of issue - type-approval, it is already being promoted and has the potential to bring into force in the next few months an amendment to the regulatory framework at European level, with which we would not measure the pollutants statically, as they are today in the CTEO, but in real driving conditions. We're filing your mail, too. We have correspondence with the French Minister for Ecology, Sustainable Development and Energy, Mrs Royal - we will also present this correspondence to you - in order to have a cooperation for the sampling envisaged in France and for joint actions in relation to vehicle control. The lab in our country doesn't have the proper equipment. Unfortunately, his equipment is outdated. It can up to "EURO 4" technology to control. It needs to be modernised. Therefore, the Ministry has found the necessary resources to control modern cars as well. A plugin that highlights other aspects of the problem is that the exhaust gas laboratory of the Ministry is located in the well-known area of the Greek, i.e. TIPED now. Since there was not even anticipated the storage of the space, the outside wires of the association of the lab have been stolen. I tell you what is really happening to show what the previous government had planned for privatisation and where it has committed the country. This laboratory, for which the country has spent millions to operate, is within the range to be privatised. The whole world knows that. It's not a secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u92	Minister, I would ask you to complete it if you do not have anything more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u93	Oh, no. All I would like to say is that I have been asking for your cooperation from the next week on which you will have this provision in your hands, all the wings of this House, so that there will be justice. If our country or companies in our own country acted like this, you know very well how we would have been dealt with by both the European institutions and the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, fifty-five students and students and five teachers attending the 4th Ellinas Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second question, under number 112-10-11-2015, of the second question of the Member of the Parliament, Heraklion, New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, concerning the transfer to the new NSRP (2014-2020) of projects not implemented under the NSRP (2007-2013), will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. We enter the first under number 104/10-11-2015 topical question for the second cycle of MP I Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the delays of the projects for the tram in Piraeus. The timely question will be answered by Minister Christos Spirtzis. Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for being here to answer my current question concerning the delay of tram projects in Piraeus. Minister, fixed track means are now an important part of the urban transport network and serve thousands of passengers every day in Athens. They are selected by workers, students, students and students, due to the speed, safety and accuracy during travel, after delays caused by traffic congestion have been avoided, thus contributing to the reduction of the use of IX, to the linking of areas between them and with large urban centres. Piraeus, as the largest port in the country, could not be left off fixed track network. The possibility of transferring with the ISAP and the metro along with the suburban will turn the port into a transport hub providing easy movement and connection with Athens. The project of tram, which started in 2013, is expected to upgrade the city's shopping centre and its urban microclimate, since it is estimated that the traffic of IX cars will decrease to a very significant number. So it also involves reducing air pollutants. This project concerns the extension of the tram line from the VTB to Piraeus and has a total length of about five and a half kilometers. It is, as I have already said, a project that will upgrade the city. However, its implementation is delayed, which creates a variety of problems in the daily life of the city and its residents. The initial schedule mentioned the implementation and completion of the project in February 2015. Today, however, we are told that the tram line at Piraeus is moving for the end of 2016 or even 2017. It is absolutely essential to have accurate information from the company about the time the project is completed, as, as I have already said, great traffic congestion has been created in the city and also problems, both in the passage of pedestrians and in the local market, since the projects are carried out on the city's main commercial roads and make access to commercial stores and public bodies difficult. Since all of this has caused discomfort among the inhabitants and in the commercial world and concern about the timing of completion of the project, I would ask you, Mr Minister: What does the Ministry intend to do to address the problem of delays and what is the exact timetable for the implementation of the project?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Fellow, the work of extending the tram to Piraeus is a complex project, which is developing as a whole within the city's densely populated web and all these projects have really been delayed and there must be an approach that respects the nuisances created by the project and its inhabitants, opinions and reasonings. There are several associations of residents who have been interested in the project and have specific proposals, with whom we have met with the Ministry, but also with institutions such as local authorities. The project, in accordance with the approved schedule, is expected to be completed on 20 December 2016. This is the official timetable approved by the ‘ATTIF’. A 25% of the project's work has now been carried out, both in terms of its finances and in terms of its work. We really have delays, because there are many stakeholders. There's the Archaeological Service, which we have archaeological findings of high value. We have the movement of public utility networks. We have interventions to respect them and traffic regulations in the centre of Piraeus. The municipality is asking for it, but, because of the nuisance and the very important work that is being done, we have work done at night. Of course, we have suspended work on the substance during periods such as Christmas, Easter, the city of Piraeus. So we can't have any delays like the ones we have. I believe that the main delays, apart from the ones I have mentioned, are the time-consuming procedures. The project had to be consulted by the CAS. Whenever we have such procedures to protect our cultural heritage, we have delays. There we need to see how we accelerate these procedures, but it is not possible to circumvent such instruments with such importance, the Ministry of Culture or the Archaeological Service, in order to speed up projects. With regard to what we are doing from now on, I believe that the Ministry can exert the necessary pressure on the "ATITIC METRO" and the contractor, now that all these problems have been solved and the Ministry and the "ATITI METRO" with the Municipality of Piraeus have been dealt with, the necessary arrangements have been made with the CSCE and the rest of the institutions and the public utility networks have been transferred. Indeed, a large part of them, because they were too old, were not simply transferred, but the agencies demanded their complete replacement and upgraded, and that was accepted. So they can now accelerate the work of the project and be consistent so that in December 2016 the city of Piraeus has an integrated project that will really contribute to its upgrading. If we do not want to have such delays, we should provide at legislative level for a project not to start, if all the previous procedures have not been provided for, because this means a great deal of delay after project maturity, the absorption of funds and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Stamaki has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u99	Minister, I would also like to ask you this: in the original plan, there was the provision for subjugating the lines of the U.S.S.A., which would contribute positively to the life and environment of the city, there would be neighbourhoods that are now detached from its centre and there is very difficult access to them. Also, in the original plan, there was the proposal to extend the line to the region of Piraeus, where the two very large hospitals of Piraeus, which serve a lot of people, not only the centre of Piraeus, but also the wider area and Athens, are located. Is there any thought in future of extending the line? Has the lines of the ESAP been completely abandoned? At the moment, as you have said, projects are moving too slowly. We knew all these procedures with the various Services, such as Archaeological. But the rhythms are too slow. As you said, from 2013 until now 25% of the project has been implemented. Does this mean that within a year of today the remaining 75% of the project will have been implemented, so that the line can function? And think that there are also the metro works in Piraeus, which have also made the people's lives very difficult. Because there is a delay and a stop to the project. The last thing I want to say to you is that the answers and the information you have given me are very good and useful, but there is a lack of information to the pirate people and the company and the ministry, as the plans are not made public. So these delays and this ambiguity and the hidden around the tram projects create much greater insecurity and concern among the inhabitants. And, as you know, there are also moves that want to get into the process to completely stop the work that will be disastrous for us. The tram must come to Piraeus. We need to strengthen the means of fixed track and upgrade the city. So all you have told us is that it will have to be done very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mrs Stamatakis. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u101	I am not used to this, but, Mrs Stamatakis, in 2013 and 2014 the project was really forgotten. If not all of these problems were solved, there was no need for consultation and consultation and agreement with the municipal authorities, if we did not take into account the citizens' movements and the nuisances that were in existence, so that the project could go ahead, if we had not predicted what would be done with the public utility networks and their replacement, the project would still be stuck. It does seem that 25% is a small part of the project as a whole - and it is indeed - but all infrastructure has been made in the technical area of the project which is missing. Therefore, if the project works intensively, it can be completed within 2016 and that is our concern. From there on, you know very well - and we are together thinking - that we need, where we can, to extend the network of fixed tracks. So, obviously, in our thoughts and planning it is to extend the tram networks as well. Whether or not a part of this will be subsidized, it has to do with the technical solutions that are given, but also with the funds, the budgets that we have and do not currently have. So there will have to be a discussion with both the inhabitants and the Municipality of Piraeus, to see what the city can do as well. I would also like to say, Mr President, that in this work as well, but above all in the metro of Piraeus, there was a suspension of work, there were difficulties in one and the other, due to the'surprising' legislation that the Samara Government had not been awarded by the public bodies. This accumulated many millions as a debt to technical companies so that they could not cope. This was resolved in the draft law on the licensing of channels, by means of the provision which, at last, provides for VAT, whether they are public or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. We continue with the seventh under the number 118/10-11-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of State, concerning journalistic mediation and national communication policy. The Minister of State will answer Mr Nikolaos Pappas. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u103	Mr Nicos Kotzia, Minister of State, following the declaration of lack of competence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject arising from the fifth chapter of the Treaty. 4324/2015 on the licensing of broadcasting stations, we are addressing you as the Minister responsible for clarifications in this respect. As you know very well, the fifth chapter with Articles 22 to 43 essentially delivers the exercise of foreign policy or part of the exercise of foreign policy to journalists, who take on the so-called - as you have appointed - 'democratic mediation'. It is a term which concerns us and dissatisfactions us, and that is the term that actually brought us here today, before you. So we ask you directly, Minister: Are you handing over foreign policy to journalists, replacing the diplomatic body? Under what conditions and under what standardity can a journalist be involved in sensitive national negotiations? You know, there is a risk that people who do not have the qualifications at critical times, at critical times, will find themselves in a position opposite and far away from the intentions of the person responsible for this role, such as a diplomat. We have nothing against journalists, but the work of the journalist is communication and information and not mediation. The second, in my opinion, must only be undertaken by people who are specific and qualified for this work. Are there any attempts being made to monitor, Minister, the information on foreign policy? What is this national communication policy, and why are they not actually involved, are the House and the other parties not represented in it, as is being done in the Foreign Policy Council? The Foreign Policy Council, Minister, will be dissolved? Will it last? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr Pappas, the Minister of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Saridis for the timely question. I think it is clear that the relevant law only delivers foreign policy to journalists. I think that this wording was simply used to overestimate, perhaps legitimate, but it is obviously not the case. The law we are discussing lays down worthwhile criteria for selecting the following press releases that will serve abroad. This includes foreign languages, undergraduate and postgraduate studies and is done, I would say to you, and a fairly thorough and multi-parametric assessment for the entire career of employees. What happened to this day? To date I would like to mention to you that only 15 people had been pre-serviced at foreign press offices from fifteen to twenty-seven years and more than 30% had not served abroad. It is clear, Mr Saridis, that the central responsibility and the first responsibility for foreign policy lies with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Foreign Affairs shall participate and co-formulate national communication policy through his participation in the National Communication Policy Council. The part of the Strategic Plan on Communication Diplomacy shall be drawn up in cooperation with the relevant departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The foreign press offices shall be in direct cooperation with the diplomatic authorities and shall maintain the lead of the ambassador and of the diplomatic officers, clearly expressed in Article 34(2) of the draft law. So the Secretariat-General, whose responsibility I am responsible, comes to assist and assist the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Besides, the communication diplomacy of the country has been in direct cooperation with it for many years. I would like to remind you that since 1993 the special press department of the National School of Public Administration has been established. In relation to 'democratic mediation', I would like to say that it comes as a specialisation of two previous terms, public diplomacy and media diplomacy. In other words, it is an attempt to communicate with the public in other countries. And, look, I would say to you - and I would like to say this on the occasion of your question - that especially lately, the officials of the press offices have been fighting and overcoming themselves to communicate Greece's positions with the public in other countries. Because public opinion in other countries also puts pressure on governments and has acquired speeds, you know, and government officials are also under pressure from public opinion in their countries, and their offer was very important. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Thirdly, to conclude, with regard to national communication policy, that its purpose is to coordinate and effectively manage the government's communication with public opinion and to promote the country's image abroad. We're not original here. There are similar structures in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. I would tell you that especially for the United Kingdom there is a draft government policy, a plan which is announced and implemented every year by the government's communication service. I'm short because my time has run out. In relation to why there is no parliamentary representation in the National Communication Policy Council, I think it would be appropriate to have parliamentary representation on a Council such as the CYSEF and the CYSEF. I shall refer to Article 82 of the Constitution, according to which the government is responsible for policy making in the country, and I think that should cover you. Of course - and I say this good faith and believe that your question and criticism are good - we are open to hearing new ideas about how human resources can be coordinated and exploited in the best way possible, because, as you know, the country is in a situation that should be fought to make an example of economic collapse. I think that the contribution of all parties could be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u107	I'm not hiding you that I'm a little confused with the complexity of this bill, as it appears. We have, on the one hand, a national policy that you are doing through this bill, and on the other hand, we are looking to find the jobs that are generated through it. Let's take the most noble intentions you might have. We really would like to believe the justification. I have a question from Mrs Tachiau, which she made on 17 August - she was a colleague from Potami at the time - who actually asks and proves through this question all the planning of the Ministry. I shall put the question in the minutes from Mrs Tachiau, who asks questions about travel by journalists, thirty-five in substance. You are trying, on the basis of Mrs Tachiau's specific question, which obviously has some elements in her hands, to provide some day-to-day state-of-the-art journalists with a view to finding jobs. With this bill, you are actually opening up jobs in this sector, with the only difference that these articles, as they have been formulated, give too much power, too much power to these people. I'm actually coming back to my suggestion. That's exactly where you play with fire. Open the Cauldron for fifty, sixty, seventy places. On what criteria, on what basis? As far as the rest is concerned, the truth is that you covered me on a number of issues. However, I would like to remind you of something. We could say that we were covered even because, if I remember correctly, you had taken it out in July for consultation. I do not think that the opposition took this news at the time, so that she can judge her side as well, because we were at a time when everything was at a time when they more or less saw the election issue in front of them, precisely because of the loss of the declared one. It is true that you had caught the Opposition in sleep at the time and thought you'd catch it now, but unfortunately there were no other elections. I would also like to submit to the Minutes an article by Mrs Vultesis entitled 'Blinds to have Papadopoulos', which she had published in the 'Frequent ZONI', in which she makes an effort to demonstrate the matching of your designs with those of other authoritarian times. What we want to take care of from our side, but you too, are not to deceive the diplomatic body. Because that is exactly what you are doing with this bill, especially where you are talking about diplomatic passports. You are giving journalists diplomatic passports, in other words, immunity to journalists of unknown identity, unknown objects of work and unknown funding. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am once again trying to tell you that you have all the noble intentions, but I do not understand what interests the journalists will be able to buy with EUR 50 000, Minister. Coming here, I had a motive, I'm not hiding it from you. I had as an incentive the good for my country. I wish, when you took up this position, that you had the same motive as I did. As I wish, when you leave here, be calm with your conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u109	In relation to the first criticism of the complexity of the bill, I do not think it is a question of complexity. A review of the volume of the bill could be accepted. However, I would like to say to you, Mr Saridis, that this was the first time that the criteria and moleculation on the basis of which one can understand these positions were very detailed. It will not be of unknown origin or of unknown identity. They will be subject to their services and, of course, foreign policy is not delivered to them. For example, there are military followers in the embassies, who are at the Ministry of Defence. Foreign policy is not delivered to the Ministry of Defence. There are followers of education. Foreign policy is not delivered to the Ministry of Education. So I think that with this approach we should also treat this move. I would like to end with this: I would expect the criticism to be because we have delayed the National Communication Policy Council. Let me refer to an article in the newspaper 'KATHMERINI'. Let this House forgive me, but I will do so, because it is an article that is very critical of the government. It says, "Greece - unit of disaster measurement". This is Mr Constantara's article - indeed it was on the days of President Olad's visit to Greece - and he refers to another article, published in a South Africa newspaper. She wonders whether Kenya is the country of Africa. Greece is therefore appearing to the international public opinion as a measure of economic catastrophe. I would say that we should all contribute to making Greece a model of recovery and a model of democracy. It's a country that has both its physics and its production. It is a modern country, with a modern state, which can give its citizens what they deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the third with number 119/10-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, on the increase in VAT for private care services for elderly and mental patients. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Tree Alexiadis. Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. This is an opportunity that not all the ministers and colleagues have left here. I want to point out something and transfer it to the Prime Minister. We ask one question behind the other and always delays a week or ten days to get the man responsible here. The person responsible is always in financial matters. Either you're doing it to the Minister of Education or you're doing it to the Minister of Social Services, to whatever Ministry and to do it, the accountant has to come here to answer us. It can't be done. This has nothing to do with Mr Alexiadis, who will answer today and I thank him very much for coming. All measures are economic. However, I would like to know what the Minister responsible for the nursing homes wants and what he is missing. So you can come two or two to answer. Let each one share, based on the Rules of Procedure, one part and the other one and second. If the accountant's always coming, don't come back again. And I don't say it at all disgraceful. It's all economical. Whatever we ask, from the road to the school, is an economic and budget issue. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I lost one minute of my speech, but it's okay. Lately I am, and you have shown here a tolerance of seventeen and eighteen. Mr Minister, because you are present, I would just like to say that the word 'intermediation' must be changed. When accompanying journalistic work, anyway, it makes it lame. No journalist can then be an ombudsman. View can do, propaganda can do whatever you want it to do. But he can't be an ombudsman. It's a wrong translation from a foreign original. Change it, so we can get together and understand all of us a little better. I'm coming to you. I'm telling you, honestly. You have the feeling, when you read in the press, that a grandmother was raped eighty - five years old, especially unintentional rape. Right? When you read that someone entered a house and robbed a ninety - year - old grandmother, you still have the feeling of being particularly awkward. 23% of elderly people, who most of them are lonely in retirement and who resort to private care units for old age or mental illness - do not talk about state structures, are we all acquainted with each other - are not particularly bad VAT? We have 19.3% of the population at the so-called 'third age', to say it elegantly, to which some of us are heading. I'm sixty-one year old, and based on statistics very quickly, I'll be at the third age. I'm either going to get loaded on the kid or get loaded somewhere else if I can't. Where will the "where else" be? We're gonna have 23% there? Make the calculation. Two hundred thousand are these people. The total burden - which takes me and lifts me together as the wind of our logic - is EUR 2 million per year. If we can't find 2 million euros a year for this job, we can get out of here, though. Everybody! And the stones and chairs have to get out of here. Our old people at 23%? You want me to invoke the "HUI", which reminds you that Moscovisi had come here and said - Moscovisi! - that VAT should be abolished in the harmonisation of 23% of third-age services, because in Europe it does not apply anywhere? Nowhere! Europe's official line is no VAT at all - that is what they call VAT - in old age care services. It's a big problem. Have you seen the Alzheimer's associations rise? Do you want me to get them for you? I've got a pouch like that. I'm not expecting anything, I'm telling you. I suppress the amendment. You're not looking for equivalent here. You're not allowed to search equivalent. It doesn't have to be equivalent. You need to do the self-evident thing. And I'm a man who defends selflessness. This is so cryptic on its own, it doesn't save us anything. The real proposal is ours, apart from the abolition of VAT on anything relating to health, medicine, welfare, third-age care, especially, that VAT should be completely removed. That should be politics. And there should also be public services with such facilities that no one is forced to resort to the private. Do you know what will happen to the increase in VAT? Black paper. A lady, a gentleman who doesn't have a passport...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u112	Mrs. Kanelle, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u113	I'm done, Mr. President. What can I say in my denture? I don't have what to say. By the time I talk, an old man is dead. And I don't want to be ashamed. Neither do you. The last thing we want to hear, leaving this futile life is'shit in their pit, because they didn't think of us when they were young'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Mr Alexiadis, the Minister for Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, Mrs Canelli, I would like to say first of all that I replied to another Member on the same question on 2 November. Of course, because I respect Parliament, the procedures and the questions I will answer to you too. Of course, I have to say almost the same. But, before I say the same, I'll make two things clear. I think that the political framework within which this government is forced to take measures has been very often explained in the House and by the Prime Minister and by all of us and has been documented. Until there is a response, another political account, which answers what had to be done, we have to implement this political account. In other words, we are not happy about these measures. And I imagine that you are not counting on us as government as health problems, the problems of education, the problems of the elderly and the fact that we were forced in July to increase from 13% to 23% VAT, as are the other factors. It is not our political choice, it is a political necessity. And, as I said before, until we can find another political account and another political path, we have to implement this policy, amend it, try to make it fairer, make taxation fairer and more proportionate. On the subject of VAT, I will agree with you on all the descriptions of the problems of the elderly people in particular, which instead of being represented by the state and covering after so many years of their problems, when they are forced to go to these units, they also pay higher taxes. Of course that's a problem. But, as in this area, as in the subject of ENPI, as in a number of other taxes, we are not politically happy about what we are doing. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] But be sure that all Members of Parliament will also be sure that the government has a basic aim to deal with these social and economic problems. And as it is clear within the agreement of July and August, as soon as we can in 2016 and have accounting targets balanced and above - because accounting in this sense is a very good science - out of those figures that we have given as an initial target, we will be able to see the VAT rates again. Therefore, the Commission considers that the measures in force in the original investigation do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the It is very clear in the text submitted in July in Parliament that we will see all these factors relating to the progress of tax revenue again. I want to assure the House that tax revenues, as shown by the figures and not some propaganda, go very well, go much better than we originally had, go much better than 2014. So we will be able in 2016 to see all VAT rates again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Kanelli, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u117	I don't know if I want him. I have to restrain myself. You discouraged me! If you agree with me on the description, you do not even disagree with the sum of 2 million! Do you expect a whole other policy proposal for the 2 million? Honestly, are you expecting a proposal? Would you like me to make a comprehensive proposal to you at the moment on this matter, here and now, today, this month, on this date, I, Member of the KKE, on the one hand, and you reiterate the question you asked another Member on 2 October? Will you tell the old people to expect you to correct the mistakes of the past, to make your own policy and to share with you the sadness with one hundred more each month? Is that what you're asking me? What are you asking me now? Understanding that the government who charges old age, old age and houses a little more is suffering? I don't have one! I don't have a counterproposal for this! Voutsi, let's go right now! Here's to the Vice President! Let's go cut out of the House! We'll find 2 million! You're looking for the OPAPs, the "MAMAP", the "SASAP", everywhere you're looking for equivalents. For 2 million, so the old people and their homes wouldn't be charged? Because most of them are lonely! Nothing, they don't have anyone to care about. They're retiring and going somewhere! What can I suggest? May I suggest that the Holy Immortality of Agaleo resurrect? What can I suggest? Trust me! What? Volunteers? May I suggest what? Stalin clean up? I can't believe I get that answer today! The elementary sensitivity. You talk about people whose time of life and quality of life because of age you cannot negotiate it! That's why I've talked to you about privately heinous VAT! You can't, you don't have the right, neither do I! No ideological pretext, no communal form! Time for a super-season with problems, forced to resort to a private place to close his life, is above negotiation. If it is not over-negotiating, it does not save us any ideology, not placement, not substituting politics from morals, not even the concept of morality, which can be accepted by any culture at any time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Have you been begging for an old man? Have you ever been begging for an old man? I know people who begg for old people! You know what to say to throw the old man in a corner, because he's got a chronic illness, because he doesn't see why he can't walk, why does he have Alzheimer's, why can't he communicate with the environment? Are we going to negotiate this in here, even at the level of the solution that everyone has found? Have you borrowed for an old man? Old people and children are the two pillars of civilisation. It has nothing to do with it - nothing to do with it, nothing to do with it! - with the other guys and the next ones. On the burnt land, the first thing you look at saving is bone. If you don't save the bones, let the beasts eat them and sit down and talk about the pension on the basis of what loneliness and where they'll die thrown away! Homeless old and homeless young is not the same thing. It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u119	I will have to repeat, in many cases, the main political argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u120	Don't do it! It's all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u121	I don't have a requirement from you to find any equivalent or where they're going to be found. You said 2 million, while the managers estimate it's more. It's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u122	How much? How much? Tell me how much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u123	Wait a minute, Mrs. Canelley. That's not the political issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u124	Tell me how much it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u125	Wait a minute! The political point is that the government was in front of a specific political choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u126	Which is not European.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u127	Wait a minute. I heard you with religious devotion. Because I am not of St. Athanasia, I am of "Sanity of Endurance". But listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u128	But it's not even European. It does not apply anywhere in Europe. At least don't lie to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u129	Much is not true in other countries of Europe, but we are forced here. The government was forced in July and August to make an agreement through a specific political choice. We've said it too many times, not to cry and pity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u130	You don't convince me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u131	That was the political choice we made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u132	You don't convince me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u133	As far as the issue of third age is concerned, I will not make any tenders for sensitivity nor will I begin to describe their problems, the problems of third age, to say that I am doing this better than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u134	But you don't get into a competition if you're lost in advance. How are you gonna get into the contest? Because if you insult me, I'll offend you back. I didn't offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u135	Mrs. Kanelle, the government is doing everything it can...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u136	If you insult me, I'll offend you back! I didn't offend you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u137	Mrs. Canelle, don't interrupt. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u138	I didn't offend you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u139	I didn't talk about a sensitivity contest. If you want to make a left sensitivity caller on my subject, you won't do it on my face. I didn't offend you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u140	Mrs. Canelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u141	Let me answer that, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u142	You're gonna cut into the pageant's.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u143	I never offended you in any way. I answer your question and say that I do not need to describe third-age problems in my answer. We know them very well and do everything possible from the children of migrants who are taken by Father Antony to "KIVOTO" until the third age, until education, we do everything we can to support these people. In order to do so, however, we need an economic and political framework. That is what we have not found out which answer is other than what we have done. What I want to assure you, however, is that all the VAT rates and all these issues will be reviewed in 2016 with the new economic data and will allow us to reconvene all these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-13-S1-commons.u145	With the consent of the House at 12.08 p.m., the sitting on Monday, November 16, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
