ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Cultural Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Economic and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, tabled a draft law on 27-7-2015: "Independent O.T.A. Legislation Service. - Economic sustainability and self-efficiency of O.T.A. - Financial Management Rules and other provisions on matters of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction'. I also have the honour to inform you of the following letter to the President of the Greek Parliament: "Mrs. President, I inform you on behalf of our Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 17(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that Members of Parliament are appointed as Deputy Parliamentary Representative. Yours sincerely, Nikolaos Michaloliakos Chairman of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn"
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u2	In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please read the references to this House, Mr Xanna.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the request of a citizen, a child with disabilities, to extend the age limit of apprenticeship to the Special Vocational Education and Training Labs (EEAE) of Piraeus by four years. To the Ministry of Health regarding the publication of the newspaper “ELEVELOS TYPOS” on 12-7-2015, on the alleged lack of supplies of medicines and basic feed materials from hospitals in the country, due to the prolonged economic crisis. To the Ministries of State and Finance, concerning the publication of the Finance & Markets Voice newspaper, which denounces two banks to undermine government effort, with the non-supply of the network of automatic take-off machines (ATMs) in cash. To the Ministries of State, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the request of the Trade and Importing Association of Aegiale on government initiatives for the gradual improvement of the business environment, through development designs and techniques and not through extermination for small and medium-sized professional reforms. To the Ministries of Economics and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the request - Complainting the Pan-Hellenic Association of Officials of the National Statistical Office of Greece, on the restoration of normality in the way ELSTAT operates and the credibility of our country worldwide. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Plakiotakis has submitted a petition to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, in which the Municipality of Agios Nikolaos Lassithi calls for an extension of the institution of lifelong learning centres of the Municipality of Agios Nikolaos. The MP of the Golden Dawn Mr. George Galeos filed a petition to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, with which the Argos Commercial Association sets out its proposals for the Free Professional Insurance Organisation (OHIM). The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr To the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance, which deal with the request - protest by professionals from food laboratories - who provided feed services for the feeding of immigrants to pre-repeal detention centres in Paranesti Drama - regarding the taking of all necessary actions to immediately repay the sums due for their services by the state. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on the announcement - protest by the Federation of Rural Associations of Evros "The Mobility", which calls for the necessary funding to be provided to begin the closure of the rifts of Evros, Ardas and the Red Crescent caused by the floods of winter. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning: (a) requesting action to be taken on an incident of unprovoked deforestation against an active member of the National Representation by an officer of the Fire Corps. (b) the investigation of a complaint concerning the lawfulness of the operations of the clearers of the machinery 'DRAMAS S.A.'. To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the complaint concerning discrimination in the disposal of firewood and logging remains for the individual needs of residents for the year 2015, between the settlements of Ptelion, Psalis Rachis, Platanovism and Ano-Prisari with the other settlements of the municipality. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Athanasios Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou filed a petition to the Ministry of Finance, in which the Cretan Association of the Prefecture of Thessaloniki complained about subjecting the muscarisian meat to the 23% VAT rate and demanding its return to the 13% rate. The JRC MPs Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis and Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos present the following reports: To the Ministries of Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the letter of the Association of Habitats of Atolokarnania, denounces the increase in VAT to 23% for the sale of live animals and calls for the necessary steps to be taken in order to correct this distortion and not to lead the production of pigs and the primary sector to destruction and their definitive destruction. To the Ministry of Finance, concerning the request of the Trade Unions Association of Messology and the Association of Accountants - Taxing - Free Trades of Messina - Nafyaktos and Areas, on the settlement of the problem of credit uncertainty in enterprises and the fortnight extension of the repayment deadline of cheques. New Democracy MP George Kasapidis filed a petition to the Ministry of Health, with which the Deputy Minister of Health and Welfare of the Region of Western Macedonia expresses his protest about the serious operating problems faced by the pathological clinic of the largest hospital in the region of Western Macedonia, following the resignations of two additional doctors. The MP of SYRIZA Mr. Konstantinos Delemitros has submitted a report to the Ministry of Finance, which calls for the extension of the repayment of contributions and tax obligations, and for third parties, which expired 30-6-2015. The Members of SYRIZA and so on. Georgios Diaras and Vassiliki Katrivanou reported to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, with which the Greek Department of Amnesty International seeks justice for the victims of police violence. MEP SYRIZA Mr.Evros (Froso) Karasarlidou submitted to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion the letter of the Black Club of Veroia, which denounces the exception from the universal school courses of high school for the 2015-2016 school year of "Hellenic Hellenism during the 19th and 20th century", which refers to the Genocide of Pontian Hellenism. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Eleftherios Augenakis, shall submit the following reports: To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, which deals with the request by representatives of foreign language centres to vote against the article which imposes an increase in VAT to 23% in the tuition fees for centers of foreign languages and middle-education courses, but excluding private-education investors as well as teachers. To the Ministries of State against Corruption, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and State, it states: (a) the publication of the newspaper "CORDER THEME" on 19-07-2015 entitled "Valvani Mother's Confederacy", while the daughter - Minister would freeze the lockers - I raised 200,000 euros", on the withdrawals before capital controls and the necessary actions are requested. (b) the publication of the newspaper 'Parapolistics' on 25-7-2015 entitled 'After the mother in the bank and the nieces', on the withdrawals before capital controls and the necessary steps are requested. c) The publication of Sunday 26-7-2015 entitled "They raised a lot of money before the capital controls - and the cousins of Balaban from EUR 100 to EUR 200 000 - From coincidence or information of their aunt?" on the withdrawals before the capital controls and calls for the necessary action to be taken. The Member of the New Democracy Mr George Stylos shall submit the following reports: To the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning: (a) the letter from the Association of Farmers of the Arta Prefecture, which calls for the implementation of a number of their requests, which will help to address the main problems facing this sector. (b) the complaint by the Municipality of Georgios Karaiskakis of Arta on the new scheme for the taxation of farmers, the abolition of the subsidy for oil and the increase in insurance contributions to the OGA, noting that the adoption of the prerequisites would drastically exacerbate the already degraded standard of living of the vast majority of the inhabitants of the region involved in the primary livestock sector. To the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Education and Religious Affairs, on the request of the Deputy Director of Regional Unity (IP) Artas, on the financing of a project to restore damage to the historic Bridge (Old Bridge) Artas, due to the naturality - flood in February 2015. To the Ministry of Finance, concerning: (a) The letter from the Pan-Hellenic Association of Producers, in which it is noted that increases in taxation, advance payment and contributions to OGA, together with the abolition of agricultural current and oil subsidies, will be fatal for the viability of their industry. (b) the letter from the Arta Foetal Cooperative, which denounces the increase in VAT to 23% for the sale of live animals and calls for the modification of the v. 4334/2015 and subject both feed and live animals to the low VAT rate of 13%. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu presents the following reports: To the Ministry of Health, on the complaint of the Labour Centre of Heraklion, on the working conditions of graduates of exclusive nurses in the two hospital establishments in Heraklion ('Venezelio' - PAGNE) To the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, regarding the request of the Association of Educational Primary Education of Rethymnon, concerning the opening of pre-service tables, the measurement of molecules of unacceptable schools to all members of the club who served in them and the recognition of the service of those who work in special education. The Members of SYRIZA and so on. Vasilis Kyritakis, Thomas Kotsias, Vassiliki Levas and Triantafylos Mitafidis have submitted a report to the Ministry of Finance, which calls for the abolition of VAT on foreign language centres, computer-learning centres and middle-education schools. SYRIZA MP Aphroditis Stavoulis submitted a report to the Ministries of Economic and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, in which the Agricultural Smoking Cooperative of Serres Prefecture "EMMANUEL PAPAS" and the Smoking Cooperative "VISALITIS" applicants for the resolution of the problems that have arisen following the implementation of the capital controls and the failure to pay workers for the harvesting of tobacco. SYRIZA MP Efstathias (Efi) Georgopoulos - Saltaris reported to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, with which the Association for the Protection of Nature and the Cultural Heritage of Erymanthos - Folois points out the need to maintain and protect the Byzantine monument of Panagia, Dafniotissa or Panagitsa in the Community of Dafniotissa of the Prefecture of Elias. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Stagioras filed a petition to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Municipality of Amphiclia - Elias expresses its protest about the abolition of routes which are essentially as a suburban for these prefectures by a decision of the "TRAINOSE". Potamis MP Kyriakos Harakidis submitted a statement to the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Finance - protest by professionals from food laboratories for the immediate repayment of amounts due by the state because they provided and provide catering services - feeding to foreign prisoners in the detention centre in Paranesti, Drama. Parliament's Deputy Prime Minister, Nikitas Kaklamanis, reported to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the President of the Central Union of Municipalities of Greece calls for the resolution of the serious problems faced by the municipalities of the country, due to the under-financing of the projects of the NRP 2007-2013 by the Public Investment Programme (PPC) and the consequent interruption of work for all the projects carried out by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of petitions has been completed. At this point, I will read to you the Topical Questions Card on Friday 31 July 2015. 1. The question, under number 434/21-7-2015, is a topical question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakrias to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, on measures to protect the natural environment against forest fires. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Ilias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the protection and promotion of the Kaiafa lake area. 3. The question asked by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of State regarding the respect of electoral law by private channels. 4. The Question No 404/30-6-2015 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of natural gas networks and pipelines in the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace. 5. The Question No 398/30-6-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the recruitment of necessary personnel at PPC S.A. 6. The question by No. 293/2-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first under number 439/21-7-2015, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Marios Salma to the Minister of Health, on the operation of the MRI of the Agrinio Hospital, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The second under number 430/16-7-2015, a top-stage question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Aliveni Health Centre, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The second question will be discussed under number 432/17-7-2015 of the new Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the possible violation of the implementation of the Capital Controls. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Dimitrios Mardas. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, for the brief time being, we have been informed by relevant press releases and through the fact that some bank officials, twenty to twenty-five bank officials, while the capital controls, the capital controls, took over EUR 1 000 and EUR 2 000. At the same time we were informed that by internal checks carried out at the banks, these officials were made available. They also confirmed the above complaints of OTOA and the Federation of Banking Officers. Is the Ministry and the Minister asking - in order to find a solution and we want to know - whether this has really happened, namely whether bank employees have unlawfully taken over within the procedure of the control of the movement of capital. Secondly, what the government intends to do, whether it will check or check the transactions that have taken place illegally, and the relevant Presidential Decree had been passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Bank of Greece, as you know, has an audit mechanism, is the Inspection Directorate, which controls it. The existing electronic systems allow these checks to be carried out. Infringements have been detected, as well as infringements by businessmen who tried to cross the same order through two and three banks. That was something we were expecting. It is reasonable that a system, when it works, also presents some derogations. All this is controlled by the Bank of Greece through the supervisory mechanism of the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u10	Minister, a simple question. Is there some kind of penalty, some kind of check? Is the state doing anything about those who have been illegal, whether they are natural or legal persons, who, while the people were afflicted with the control of funds, have some people illegally unlawfully and illegally taken over or dealing with illegal and irregularly, large sums or anything that is not provided for in the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u12	The penalties provided for in relation to availability have already been seen. It's clear. The framework shall be determined by the system of supervision which exists and where applicable the penalties shall be imposed. This is because this way contributes to the smoother functioning of the system. When some people know that a system is supervised and can be supervised, because the "electronicisation" of the system facilitates this process, then you understand that it is too much to think about infringing acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. The third, with number 431/17-7-2015, a topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastinos on the VAT of the remote islands, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. My colleague has asked for the floor for a minute. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. I asked why it really is a timely question, since Mr. Tsakalotos, when he brought the law to Parliament, supplemented, with the end date of December 31, 2016, the current status regarding the Aegean islands and especially the remote ones. But that's what happened at the last minute. It was not written in the committee, it was not in the text. Of course, the House did not fully understand it. I would, of course, like to ask the Minister now when the negotiation is taking place if what has been added can be removed, because it is vital for the economy of the islands, for the retention of the populations on the islands, especially at this time when we have the migratory wave from abroad. Of course, when the islanders leave to survive, because they cannot afford to stand, it is essentially a national issue and not just an economic one. So I would like Mr Chakalotos to be here. Of course, the question remains, but it is timely because the negotiations have really taken place now, because if the negotiations are over, there is no point in asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. It is true that it is a serious matter and your question timely, but you know that in these days there are other kinds of difficulties in meetings and parties. I assume Mr Tsakalotos is at the meeting of the Central Committee of SYRIZA today. We will try to contact him, to see how we can come back with the question, because it is really timely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the ninth row is number 367/19-6-2015, a topical question by MP 2 Athens, Potamios, Mr. Theocharis, the Minister of Finance, on the Government's position regarding the findings of the Committee on Truth, Public Debt. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, will answer. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, too much water has definitely flown on the groove since the 18-6 that has been given the preliminary conclusions of this so-called Aleppo Commission, but also from the 19-6 I asked the question. I must remind you that I was asking the Minister whether the positions expressed in the preliminary conclusions are also the positions of the Greek Government. If the answer to this question is positive, then what is the point in the discussions on an illegal debt with illegal interlocutors, while, if it is negative, the government was aware of the content of these conclusions and, if so, why did the Prime Minister and many members of the government choose to take part in the various meetings, particularly the initials? Of course, since then, as you know, too much has been done. We had a referendum. We had a bronze 'no' of the Greek people. We had a change in the government's attitude. Finally, while this committee, without any legal basis, tells us that Greece must not pay this debt, because it is illegal, unfair and disgusting, on the other hand, in EuroSummit the Greek Government signed together with the eighteen other governments of the Eurozone that the Greek authorities reaffirm their unconditional commitment to fulfil their financial obligations in full and in good time. Therefore, in our view, there is no legality in continuing this committee. What is the government's relationship? What does it really want to work? Can this institutional disharmony continue? That's not my word. He's from the Maximos Mansion. Because we are talking about a committee, not of the House, but of the President of the House. Will it continue to cause problems for the government and its negotiation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u20	As you know, the House has a Rules of Procedure and indeed the House is able to organise events at the appropriate level. This does not mean, of course, that any conclusions from any scientific meetings - or anything else related to the debt or any other issue relating to economic policy - are the conclusions of the Greek Government. The Greek Government is following what is happening. To the extent that it considers that some conclusions from the work of such committees are useful, it will use them in this case. To the extent he considers that it is not useful, they will not be used. What we want to point out, however, is that, in the context of all these activities in this House, the financial costs of these activities must also be borne in mind. It is very interesting to have scientific debates within the House and to draw various conclusions, which have an academic character, I can tell you. But this cost of these activities is a cost that the House must bear in mind, in the processes that take place within the House, but it does not stop this cost being part of the country's state budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. I am very pleased, Mr Minister, because you have taken a clear distance from this committee and from its conclusions, if any. I know you have to say this in an elegant way that you will not actually use the conclusions, since you have already agreed with our partners that this debt should be settled in an alphabetical way, but Greece cannot unilaterally pay it. Let us not forget - and I think we need to do this for the information of the Greek people - that the model of Ecuador, Ecuador, which many members of this committee were in their respective Ecuador, was a model on which it wants to rely. But it was a model that has no legal basis. It was never used in any court. This committee in Ecuador was used for equivalent popular gatherings to inform the world. The President of Ecuador, in a mockery move - to say so - of the investors of Ecuador, stopped paying some of the bonds after the troubling of the committee. That is how bond prices collapsed, as may prices in the past in our country, but over there very intensively. And in collaboration with a bank purchased these bonds at these low prices. So he made moves on the market inside, mocking the investors, and then paid off to the full any investors who didn't believe in the fairy tale that Ecuador would stop paying its interest and obligations. So, in this way, using the country's exchange reserves and in cooperation with a bank, it made moves that may have been criminally flattered in other countries. He's done it, but he's been out of the market since he's been in a very bad position, and he can't finance his debt, and that's why he's forced and sold out his country's productive wealth so that he can transnationally get some money. They are not models that our country can go through with, but only with agreements with our partners, only with this right, realistic turn that the Prime Minister has made, trying to get an agreement. Please continue in this way of agreement. Do not listen to the voices that have no solution to the problems of the country. Just yesterday the Prime Minister told us about the 7 billion-dollar disaster from the banking system, from which all his subsidiaries abroad would leave overnight and other things. Already the damage that has been done to the national economy with the bank closures will be very expensive and we are already paying for it. It would therefore also be a good attempt to close this committee on the part of the government, and even an explicit disapproval that it is not the government's position that our country would unilaterally not pay its debt would be in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u24	As regards, of course, the example you have brought, each country has its own affairs or debt-related restrictions. Other countries can pay it and do not want to pay it, other countries cannot pay it. We belong to this category which we cannot pay for. Finally, what I would like to point out is this: I often think there is a confusion. Although the English term is one, in Greece the term "scrupulous and burdensome" is not a term, but it is two different terms with different content, which I have developed in previous analyses that I have done. The Greek vocabulary is very rich, so it is important to use this vocabulary and to make the distinctions that this vocabulary imposes, whether we are in the House, on a committee of Parliament or outside the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. We enter the thirteenth third under number 318/8-6-2015 an up-to-date question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance on the remuneration and taking over of the liquidator from the Bank of Greece for the "CONTRIBUTIONAL EYBOIKI BANK". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Dimitris Mardas. Mr. Nikolaos Mavraganis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am dealing with the Evia Cooperative Bank, not only because of traceability, but also because it is a special case for those cooperative banks that have entered the target, so that the systemic banks that are wholly owned and controlled by the Eurosystem, as you know, are left alone, creating a suffocation of bank and management in the government, which appeared to be very evident in the negotiations that took place a few days and weeks ago. The Cooperative Bank of Evia was closed, its license was revoked on account of the Bank of Greece, because one-and-a-half year before closing, it leaked a false document from the Bank of Greece that its license was then withdrawn, i.e. that they had fallen below the 8% threshold in relation to the liabilities. This document admitted that the Bank of Greece was false, but it was leaked by its employees to most of the media. Thus, 25 million deposits within two months left the bank, and then the bank actually acquired a problem and its license withdrawn. Then, while the first document I told you, which was the false, even defined a liquidator with a specific fee, as it did to all cooperative banks in Greece, with a fee limit of EUR 4,000, when he came to appoint a liquidator at the Bank of Evia in December 2013, he nominated "ERNST & YOUNG" with an unlimited amount. It's the only case. I have found, Minister, all the cases of cooperative banks, that the remuneration of the liquidator has been determined at EUR 3 000 to 4 000. A single case which does not determine the remuneration shall be the one. I bring you information that while there is the moratorium that the Prime Minister himself has mentioned about the regulation of loans, about the non-pressure of borrowers, who are trying as far as possible to pay and serve their loans, or those who are within the limits of poverty, and who have asked for a suspension of payments not to go ahead with forced executions, the 'ERNST & YUNG' as a clearer, despite these instructions, is sending to them, and is oppressing the borrowers, terrorising them and telling them that they will be sold off their real estate. I would ask you very much, Mr Minister - and this is what extends my question - firstly, to look specifically at the case of the Evia Cooperative Bank, in which it has given false documents a year and a half before the withdrawal of its licence from the Bank of Greece and then, in this grim situation, actually immoral life, they have been appointed 'ERNST & YOUNG' at a fee of more than EUR 10,000, according to our own information, without formally specifying the remuneration for that very reason, while all the others are at 4,000 euros, suppressing borrowers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mardas, the Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u28	As far as the first part of the question concerning this false news by the Bank of Greece, as you mentioned, you understand that we cannot be involved and cannot be answered at the moment. The question that came to us has to do with the liquidator's reward. From the Bank of Greece we have an answer, which is also available to you, which says that this remuneration is within the limits of the remuneration of the previous cases and from a reply from the Bank of Evia, which is available to you, the remuneration has been set at 5,000 euros. These are the written evidence we have on the payroll of the liquidator.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u30	One issue arises: why the sum in the decision was not fixed in contrast to all other cases. I have here to testify two cases for the Minutes, so if you want to take them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is firstly the false document from 18-3/2012, and the second is, for example, from the Achaean Bank and I have two more - three cases. In all banks, the revocation decision shall be defined as the liquidator and the remuneration of the liquidator. In the only case that has not been defined - and indeed with great scepticism - I hear today that there is a definition document, but it has never been made known at that time, and I do not know what date this document has and whether it has a protocol on it - I would like, Minister, to see this protocol when it was taken in connection with previous protocols. Because if there were indeed, the simple question has been this: why has it not been made known, as is the case with all the others? Why? We all provoke Jerusalem and it is completely unacceptable in an earlier period, before the closure of cooperative banks, in order to bring about the suffocation of the banking system in the next few years, to receive false documents from the Bank of Greece to destroy a bank and then appoint "ERNST & YOUNG", for which much has been heard, without specifying the amount of liquidation and today they come to oppress borrowers. This is a truly researchable issue and I will come back with a new topical question and please, Minister, focus on your interest as a Ministry in the direction of pressure from the Bank of Greece to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u32	That is what we will do, we will ask the Bank of Greece about this document, to see exactly what is going on. What I have under protocol number 420/12-6-2015 and it refers to remuneration - our job was to investigate the remuneration, that was your question - this document of the Bank of Greece states that there is no difference between the remuneration of that liquidator compared with the remuneration of the liquidators of the other banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u33	Did he notify you of a decision, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u34	I have a letter for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u35	Is there a decision of the Bank of Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u36	No, I have the letter. I referred to a letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u37	No, there isn't! It's not acceptable, really.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u38	Yeah, but now I can't think what's written here is false. From there on, there is a letter from the Bank of Evia, which identifies this fee, which has been set by a specific decision of the Committee on Credit and Insurance of the Bank of Greece, which has a number 100/20-12-2013. If you want, write it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth question under number 422/9-7-2015 is a topical question for the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the River Mr Antigoni Lyberakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the completion of the project "Equipment for the unemployed in the areas of Economic Activity with Compulsory guaranteed employment" by the Ministry of Labour's operational programme, will not be discussed due to a blockade by parliament. Also, the sixth Question No 409/6-7-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the Contribution Agreement of EUR 9,890,500, which consists of ten pillars and concerns the preparation of studies on the implementation of the ‘Reform Support for the Health Sector’ programme, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. We come to the third, with number 436/21-7-2015, a top-level question from the MP Laconia of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Leonida Gregorakos to the Ministers for Economic and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on compensation for the fireflies of the Laconia Prefecture. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. George Katrugalos. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like from this position today to give a real real answer - because we are being followed by Laconia at the moment, because they know that there is this timely question here today - about the great problem of the fires and the consequences that this region has for a truly beautiful area of Laconia and which has been completely destroyed. All I can tell you is that thirty-five thousand acres of woodland were incinerated and twenty-five thousand growing acres were mainly with olives. But at the same time, as you can see, we had livestock and bees. Farmers are in a really tragic situation. Tourism in the region has been very badly affected, Minister. We know that despite the fact that the government came down in the first few days and tried as far as possible to respond to its tasks as it could - and here we have to say many thanks and congratulations to the Fire Service, to the organization of the prefecture, the municipality and all the services, the police and the Army which were all present - that the fire and fire disasters have been mitigated. But the area was ruined financially, because it is a tourist area in the summer, the region of Naples, Elafonissos and as you can see, has a total disaster. So I, Minister, have come here today, and I would also like to present proposals from the Laconia Chamber and from all the institutions. Indeed, I have also raised the questions that other fellow Members have asked, and I will also present them to you. I've picked them up in a brief note and I'll put this before you so that we can act quickly. That is what we are interested in, and also to prevent, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the rains of the autumn, because, as you can see, the whole mountain over Naples has been burned and if they come in the rainforest, all the earthy mountains will fall into Naples and people will drown, the land will be moved, the mud will be unprecedented. So some things have to be done very quickly, because we are already delayed. Thank you very much and I will tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Gregorakos, for raising the matter and the way you have raised it. I, too, have the same desire to be able to work together to address this issue as best and efficiently as possible. Let me tell you that there is a relatively adequate legislative framework, but unfortunately it is a fragmented responsibility. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for recording firefighting buildings and facilities. The Ministry of Development is responsible for protecting and restoring the burnt areas and for trespasses, the Ministry of Interior and the Forestry for assessing the disaster and for declaring reservoirs, the Ministry of Rural Economy and ELGA for assessing disasters in crops and our Ministry for the prompt financial support of those affected. For example, as far as we are concerned. that there is provision for a direct payment of an individual's allowance for the first needs of EUR 586. Additional EUR 586 if there are multiples or disabled persons and a financial aid of up to EUR 5,869 for the replacement of a building. The point is that at the level of application there is a relatively fragmented competence. There are commissions at the level of municipalities to record the people's immediate needs, to get this aid from the welfare services of our Ministry, and there are also committees to be drawn up by decision of the district manager for the rest of the restorations. There is also the major task of recording the fire in order to avoid trespasses. In order to map the fire-fighting areas we have already made sure that very high resolution satellite images are taken. There are false colours depicting the situation before and after, so that there can be no interference. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] At this level the immediate one has become self-conscious in the regions of Naples, Saint Nicholas Boeia in Mesochori, Lachio and Farklou. These self-contained buildings have been destroyed, some of which are considered to be completely damaged - six - and other repairable, for which we are going to implement the legislation. Just as you have done your preparation, we have done it and what I have told you was very briefly on the outline. There are documents - and I will present them to you to consider them - for the first steps and I am also the other co-responsible ministers at your disposal, to see how we can plan from here and even better to provide state aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mr Gregorakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are informative, but we must make a combination of all the things you say with us, the local MPs, and also the entire system of state in the Peloponnese Region of the Municipal Municipalities of Laconia. I have here - and you too have it - the special report by Mrs Spanou, which has the procedures for granting aid to the fire-fighting workers in 2007. I'll testify to you. You can find it, but because I have it ready, I'll give it to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Leonidas Gregorakos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also have all the things I have told you before by my fellow Members who have tabled the various questions, what they are asking for about and what Laconia would like you to do on the part of the Ministry and on the side of the government. I've got them here. However, what we would really like you to help us are the proposals from the Laconia Chamber, through which it is asked to include if the prefecture, as previously introduced by the firefighting counties, can be incorporated under the development law with the highest motives. So there is a package of proposals - which I will give you - from the Laconia Chamber, where many of them are real and really reassuring for the people of the region. I had a conversation before I came here with the President of the Institute of Local Government Mr. Dionyssis Hatzidakis. It's Mayor Falliro. We had a debate yesterday in the CEDEFOP. They, too, are preparing to assist with know-how, because it really is going to be awesome. Because the mountain is just above the city and because it is totally destroyed, as you can see, landslides will be very large and the transport of soil to the city and the port will be very large. So we have to catch up with all this. We need to see, however, and what we are going to do directly with this financial assistance, Mr Minister, to those affected, because it is a black region. There's nothing left. As you can see, fruit and vegetables do not exist, the animals and bees of farmers have been destroyed, the animals want feed, because the whole area has been destroyed, they have to be moved. So, with combined moves and with all the ministries, we must see what we are going to do, so that we can quickly intervene, so that we can reduce all these major consequences and improve the quality of life of the people in the region. Because, as you can see, people will rise up to leave if they don't get any money for herbal capital. You heard that thirty-five thousand acres of olives were destroyed. These people have no income. We should therefore see what we are going to do in the next few years in this package - which I gave you now - as Mrs Spanos had done on the part of the Citizens' Counselor. Thank you and I am waiting for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u46	Surely we will work together and I want, as I have done in my first place, to congratulate you on the style of your position. I think that this is the real meaning of parliamentary control, to try to find ways to jointly respond to immediate needs. On the matter of immediate assistance, I would like to say that we will immediately take care of the request from the municipalities concerned to transfer the credit to the appropriate code of the Ministry of Interior. The procedure is as follows: Each municipality is organizing a committee, which accepts the demands of the pistols, which presents us with an overall list of requests and a nominal list of pistols. The joint ministerial decision, which already exists for these limits, is being implemented, and we are making sure that an appropriate code is transferred to the interior ministry's code and that the municipality concerned is financed. This procedure should therefore be speeded up at municipal level for those concerned, and we will certainly see to it that the corresponding credit is transferred. As far as the Chamber's proposals are concerned, we should be happy to meet with a representative from the Chamber - perhaps with my own group - in the field of my powers. I am sure that the other ministers will also do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. The fifth question will be discussed under number 417/7-2015, the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on ensuring that the wages paid to workers and unemployment benefits are paid to the unemployed. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr. Georgios Katrugalos. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, our people are saying a saying: 'The wolf on the bulwark is pleased.' So the business groups, by using - if you like - the climate of fear and bank holidays in the previous period, have escalated the attack on workers in many companies of all sectors of the economy. On account of this question, there were dozens of complaints from workers - I imagine the Ministry of Labour would have been acceptable. I will then submit to the Practical Press Releases of the Pan-Attagonist Front, where more than a hundred businesses of all branches at this time do not pay wages to employees, they have changed their working relationships and from fixed work have turned it into rotating work, in total they do not pay and move on to availability and all that is known to you. What is the question that we ask the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Labour? We believe that the worker, regardless of developments, must receive his wages and have the employment relationship, at least the one still left by the dozens of implementing laws which are provided for in the first and second Memorandums and by those who will, of course, provide for the third Memorandum which has already been passed by some of them. The worker must have his wages and employment relations. So we ask: What are you going to do to ensure that the total wages of workers and unemployment benefits are paid immediately and without delay for the unemployed? Because, as you know, wages are at 60 euros a day, as it seems. The wages paid to employees by the banks are not paid. Also, companies stop redundancies, compulsory unpaid leave. This is, in fact, a 'lock out' for the workers, with the pretext of closing the banks. I do not know what thoughts you have made on this and what debate you have on the services, what you have from the EIA and what action you have taken. We would like your answer on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u50	Mr Katsotis, I fully agree with your findings. And we are faced with a completely dismantled environment in the labour market in the implementation of these neoliberal memorial measures and there is fear in the average worker. When we have one and a half million unemployed and wait three - four for every job and when there are employers who exploit this situation, the jungle status you described is indeed created. One of my first announcements, when I took over, is that to the extent I can deal with that fear. The tool we have is the APRC. I promise that these hundred complaints, which you say you will consider in my mind, will give them priority to being examined. I have also given orders to speed up already frequent checks carried out by the AIA over the previous period. I would also like to say to you that although it is a lack of legislation and a lack of legislation in the way it has been formed after the memorials, even this lack, lazy, legality, I am prepared to implement it. For example, unpaid leave cannot be imposed on the worker. It is not provided for in labour legislation, it is not provided for in collective agreements. Unpaid leave can only be agreed between the worker and the employer. It is not possible, in other words, to impose an employer on a worker unpaid leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u51	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u52	I know it's blackmail. Where this can be proved, however, I would recommend that the APRC carry out checks and proceed to the appropriate measures. Therefore, in agreement with your findings, I would like to tell you that the measures and means available to the Ministry of Labour will be activated so that, if this situation can be addressed, it can be dealt with or at least mitigated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u54	Minister, you are well aware that the level of exploitation of workers has increased sharply in recent years. Of course, the crisis is deep, but this political leadership, the leaders of the parties, are loading it on the workers' backs. So they are the permanent victims and the previous years and now. Unemployment is therefore being exploited, but the tolerance of the governments towards the employer is such that they do not implement the minimum requirements - as I have said - by labour legislation. It's not a few times when workers get their wages to go to court and cases are slow, they're long. You know that very well, you are a worker, you have dealt with it, and you know how long the worker has been in trouble to get his jobs, we are not talking about other things! On this, then, the trade unions, the workers, have made proposals, they have - if you want - fought for certain things, but so far, unfortunately, they are going far back. Even these are demanded. Seven hundred thousand today employees, unfortunately, do not get their wages for more than seven months. This climate that exists from somewhere is being expelled. It is the tolerance of governments, it is the climate of what is created in the workers, saying to them: 'Have a good look, you don't see what is going on'. So all this contributes to this jungle that we have said before. So the government has a responsibility, if anything, to apply these minimum conditions and rules, to pay the worker for his work, not to go to the factory in the morning and say 'lock out', 'go away'. What's that? Where are these things? We'll give the Minutes for you, Minister, the hundred businesses. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's one of those healthy businesses that SYRIZA says will develop the economy further. They are from these businesses and they are healthy or profitable, because they exploit workers in the most provocative way. We believe that workers with their struggle should clash and stand against employers, but also with those policies which, in the next few years, will be - if you want - fatal for workers, for their lives themselves, with very negative consequences for the level of meeting their needs in the next period. Because it is also known to you that the trade union law also wants to change, the employee who today enables the worker to set up a substantially and to fight for some balance at all, and changes in working relations, collective agreements, you know very well that he will also change at the expense of the workers, because he says we will go to the logic of the ILO and to the best practice that exists. And what's the best practice? Protection of the competitiveness of enterprises. This is the best practice that the International Labour Office says, and this proposes and prejudges for countries and, in particular, those in crisis. So the collective agreements will go far behind, and here we will have the phenomenon of creating too many associations of people for employers and ending with the rights of the de facto workers, that is, as they have done in many branches. You know that very well. If you get the evidence and see how many associations of people have done the employers and what contracts they have signed, you will see that there is no contract here. In the sectors that have been signed in 2013 and 2104, the associations of persons have changed this landscape in collective labour agreements. So this climate needs to be changed and it will change with the workers' struggle in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u56	As far as the negotiations are concerned, I will try not to do what you say and to which I personally object. On the subject of the application of legality, however, this is my responsibility for the SEA and I will try to do so in the direction you have said. Apparently, at the moment, fear is dominating. That is why we must use the unions, which are the organized capacity of the working class to resist, but also the anonymous complaints, precisely to enable someone who is afraid to react. I have told the APRC to accept anonymous complaints - it has always accepted - and I will make sure that the four-digit number that the APRC has been notified and that it can accept such complaints. For symbolic reasons, what unions are now asking for the intervention of the Ministry of Labour, I personally accept it. I saw yesterday the union of the dismissals of the "PTDELICON", just to send a message that the Ministry of Labour is currently on the side of those who resist. We will do everything we can in the capacity and resources we have to try to reverse the climate of fear and give strength to those who resist it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the seventh under No 418/7-2015 topical question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on dealing with the problems of workers at the hotel "Decree" of the ownership of the Holy Metropolis of Thessaloniki. The Minister will answer Mr. George Katrugalos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'll tell you how the problem is. The employer, taking advantage of all this anti-corruption legislation which has passed over the past five to six years with the memoranda, implementing laws, etc., has launched an attack on workers' rights as a whole. This employer, which in this case is the Holy Metropolis of Thessaloniki, attacked both wages and labour and, lastly, the right to work. Perhaps, Minister, taking into account the debate in the previous question too, we can agree on it because that is the reality and it is the case in our country and not just. However, it is a question of changing that reality. And she doesn't change. Of course, we are asking for this legislation to be applied. I say that we ask for that to happen. But it doesn't change with it. In other words, we cannot continue instead, as we were saying, to break the memos, to bring in a third and say that we will do everything we can to defend workers' rights. So we need another policy. In this case, since May 2014, the employer has called for the creation of an association of persons and for contracts to be signed with wage reductions of 30% -35%. After the workers had been refused, they illegally imposed rotation work. It has, in fact, in this period and attempted to change the skills of the workers. At the time we are discussing, that is, from May 2014 until now, with an average of about five months, workers' employees are being delayed. He has privatized the cleaning service and fired the respective workers. The last thing is that since June 30, 2015, last month, he fired the thirteen out of the fourteen workers - because one was pregnant - and gave a small amount of compensation - not even their compensation. Based on the above, we ask, Minister. What will the government do, firstly, to withdraw redundancies and ensure the permanent, stable and full-time work of the workers. Secondly, if the hotel is finally closed, we are asking for all jobs to be ensured for workers, by being absorbed into another agency of the institution, as mentioned in the relevant EC, on the basis of which this institution was established. Thirdly, we are asking for the full repayment of all the accrued accruals and differences that the institution itself has accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u60	The APRC reports I have in my hands confirm your complaints. The APRC appears to have examined eleven complaints concerning employees of the institution since 2014. It appears that the institution had initially agreed to pay accrued liabilities. As a result of a delay in the payment of the instalments for four of these employees, a complaint has already been filed on 2-6-2015. In addition, it appears that the settlement went ahead and the June 2015 instalment has also been paid. There is an outstanding discussion on the labour dispute, which will take place on 31 July, on the dismissal of eight workers, which was held on 30 June. It is clear that we will apply the law and, as has been done in the past, if it is not implemented, we will proceed to all the necessary measures under the legislation at the moment. I inform you that, in addition to the previous lawsuit, this year the Labour Inspectorate of the Eastern Thessaloniki Sector conducted an on-the-spot check there on June 15, 2015, i.e. a month ago. In addition, two press releases were filed to the Prosecutor of Thessaloniki for misconduct in the application of the legislation. We are going to move on exactly the same level, i.e. where we find illegal, we will send them to the prosecutor. It does not have the task of the Ministry of Labour to withdraw the complaints, but we will try to apply this framework of legal relations and legal measures and weapons to the fullest extent possible. Unfortunately, the report I have here seems to confirm that since July 1, 2015, the “DIAKONIA” hotel has been closed and has only one person left in the accounting office to handle the outstandings. We therefore seem to be in a new situation, which we will deal with as best as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u62	Minister, especially for the latter, I would like you to pay attention to the following: Based on the FEK number 1612 of November 2006, which refers to the establishment of this institution, workers are not part of the hotel but of the foundation. And so far, they were paid on the basis of the salaries of the institutions' employees. This has also been adopted by the institution itself. Because there was an economic difference in the wage bill and the institution itself argued that they should not be paid on the basis of the hotel staff contract but on the basis of what employees get to the foundations. Therefore, as the employees claim, regardless of whether this hotel is closed or not, there are needs in the institution itself and these workers should be transferred to other departments of the institution rather than fired. Therefore, the question of continuing their work can also be resolved, but above all, the question of the repayment of the debts. Because it is responsible for the institution, it is not the hotel that if it has profits it pays and if it has not paid and waits when it will be given the opportunity. The second thing I want to say to you is that Minister, with the agreement you are about to sign, with the prerequisites that have already been voted on by Parliament, this practice that we are discussing today and denounce in your own statement and you are opposed, is in the essence of the agreement you are going to sign with the third memorandum. You are talking about the best practices applied in the European Union. In practical terms, this means that the collective bargaining is a slap in the way of industrial relations and collective agreements, because there is a very clear reason for doing business contracts. It means even more obstacles to trade union action. We hear things even about limiting the right to strike. It also means removing any obstacles to mass redundancies. It appears that labour rights are regarded as burdens for employers and any restrictions on collective redundancies or the slave trade are a disincentive to investment. Our opinion, Minister, is that, if we do not resist this practice, it is not within the framework of capitalism, the best practice of the European Union, for workers to see better days. That should change. Of course, we are not asking the government. It is well-known that it agrees with this policy, has signed it and will apply it, regardless of what the various ministers or MPs of the government party say right and left. The question is, of course, that the workers themselves should fight and organize themselves, but not in the logic that you say, 'we will, in any case, implement this framework of anti-Americanism and the workers themselves, fight to ensure within this framework what they are entitled to'. They must overthrow these anti-grassy anti-grassroots frames so that they can take luck in their hands so that they can effectively solve their problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u64	As far as the Foundation is concerned, in the context of the conciliation procedure which we can initiate, we will see what we can do in the direction you have said, namely transfer to other departments of the Foundation, in order to avoid a legal dispute which may indeed be a long one and which is difficult to deal with at that time. With regard to the general political issue you have said, I should just like to tell you my personal opinion. I interpret the words 'best practices' which in fact exist in the text as a defence of what we call a 'European social model'. It is obviously capitalism, but capitalism, after the compromise in World War II, which both the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats - indeed not the Left - served as a model of market freedom, but which is regulated by labour law and social rights. Neoliberalism seeks precisely a deregulation of this working model towards a new regulation of capitalist relations more fiercely for workers. My personal view, therefore, is that at the moment there are possibilities to refer to the previous legislation, which is reflected in the constitutions, which are reflected in the sovereign labour legislation, in order to create a barrier to the efforts of overall deregulation. At least this will be my endeavor to negotiate. As far as workers' struggles are concerned, we fully agree on that. There is no other hope that the situation will change unless the workers are organized and dealt with collectively with what needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the eighth Question No 392/29-6-2015, on the abolition of the special year of the Ministry of Education for the appointment of multitude of teachers in secondary education, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, will not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member with the relevant Minister. The tenth under number 375/22-6-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the publication on cooperation by Mrs Helena Panaritis with a well-known multinational company, while at the same time participating in the negotiating team of our country, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. Eleventh question under number 366/18-6-2015 of a second question by the Member of the River Flash MP Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the functioning of the Coordinating Centre of the National Transplant Organisation (EOM), will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The twelfth under No 328/9-6-2015 topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the delay in the regulation on the'red loans' of farmers in the former agricultural bank will not be discussed due to a failure by the Minister. The first question under number 3723/22-2015 by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Finance, concerning the restoration of public losses in cases of untimely delivery of works by the contractors, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The second question by No 3714/22/2015 by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the supply of quality agricultural produce instead of the questionable quality of imported products, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. The third question by number 3177/3-6-2015 question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health, concerning the immediate withdrawal of No. 37/2011 IKA circular - EBRD to buy orthopaedics, orthopaedics and artificial members, who, through wonderful participations, excludes people with disabilities from equal and decent living, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment. Mr. Treasury, we'll be waiting for the Minister for two minutes. I understand that there is one issue, because the parliamentary control procedure is a top parliamentary procedure. Unfortunately, something has happened to the Minister and is delaying. Seeds can't do anything more than ask you, if possible, to wait two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I will be waiting and can wait until tomorrow morning because we are here to defend our prefecture, from which we come from through a process of protecting and promoting the archaeological sites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u67	Head can't wait until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u68	In any case, Mr President, I am here and am waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u69	We need to interrupt for a few minutes. Mr. Minister is near here. He's entering the entrance of the House. Let's wait. This is happening. It's human. We're a little interrupted, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned procedure is repeated. The first question will now be discussed under number 440/21-7-2015, the second time question by the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy. Anastasios Prustakis, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, about the archaeological findings of the burial drum of the Little Doxipa - the Zone of the Municipality of Orestiad. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to convey the climate of Evros to the Greek Parliament and also to the government, a climate of frustration and anguish. Our impurities, our anti-military works, which have been affected by the flooding, unfortunately, have not been restored, because we cannot, Minister, obtain the necessary material that is soil, because the government cares and has almost made legislation in any category - Mr President, you are well aware of the legalities - whether an amendment to a law or an act of law. Because it is prerequisite for an environmental study in laws which have been declared in an emergency, in order to obtain a permit to take land from thirty spaces. Please, Mr Minister, despite the fact that the relevant ministers have been informed on several occasions, to inform them, because time is lost and winter waters are coming, which will drown not only us last year but also the Athenian state. I'm so sorry to make that intervention. With regard to our subject, the little Doxipara burial tomb - Orestiados Municipality zone began as a life-saving excavation in September 2002. A host of findings were revealed, four burns of dead with rich hits, five wagons with two horses each and many more. Rich photographic material is available to you. To maintain and store the findings, they were placed in a prefabricated house, a full maintenance workshop was organised, while the space is protected by technical and material means - such as a greenhouse, please - and by human resources. After the retirement of four of the eight guardian of antiquities, the site has been kept poorly. The protection and enhancement of the findings by building an exhibition site was decided on account of the particular archaeological and historical importance of the impressive findings and the need to remain unbreakable within the excavation, which in itself is a unique exhibit. Finally, this is a unique opportunity for the cultural and tourist promotion of the region of Nea Orestiad and northern Evros, Minister of State, in general. In order to prepare the studies for the construction of an exhibition area shell and the integration of the project into the ESRB of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, it was ensured by the Prefecture of Evros - the old prefecture - the amount of EUR 150,000, the management of which after the abolition of the prefectures reached the Regional Unit of Evros. For the payment of the studies carried out by the end of 2012, the amount of EUR 75,000 was disbursed, according to your signature in the programme contract between the Ministry of Culture and the relevant bodies. Alongside political and administrative circumstances, they have led to the delay in studying the project, such as, of course, the project itself and the further emergence and exploitation of the site. As is next, due to the great delay in the completion of the studies, the project did not join the current NSRP, for which it was planned by the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace, and was kept for a long time. The expiry of five years from the first approval decision of the original premeditated creates a risk not only for the wooden roofs for protecting the findings but also for the findings themselves. Moreover, the Orestiad Triangle lacks an important project that will contribute to its development. On the basis of all the above, Mr Minister, you ask: What do you intend to do about the protection and promotion needs of the monument and of the cultural heritage of Evros? Do you intend to approve immediately the new Evros Antiquities Evros Evros Evros for the repair of the rooftops and the maintenance of certain findings that are of immediate need? Are you going to increase the number of guards for effective protection of the space? Do you intend to include the project to build exhibition shells in the burial drum in the new European programme of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace? Finally, what you said in private debates, that you are trying and trying to find a private initiative to secure, I think, we are also in agreement if the state is not able to protect this area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, the excavation and discovery of the space in Doxipara is about twelve, thirteen years. The government is six months old. You must consider, then, that our responsibility is there, it is serious. I will take up exactly as much as there is, but we have not been responsible for the space for twelve years. Indeed, there and the findings, it is a very remarkable excavation field and an archaeological site that causes the very great interest of visitors with the horse’s chariots and bones. It shows all this life in the Thracian fields, uninterrupted culture. As far as the situation of the findings and the field is concerned, I have not visited it but from photographs and descriptions of the archaeologists responsible there. My assessment is that it does not look forward to honouring the Greek state, the situation in which this very nice archaeological field lies. A part of the funding that you requested has already been disbursed to taxi to repair the roofs but has been plunged into the banks of the Bank of Greece. He has left our regular budget and is portrayed at the Bank of Greece. I think that in the last few days large sums of money have been unleashed, and I think that the first thing they're going to do is to the Evros tax office to get things done. As far as your guardianship is concerned, the possibilities are limited to what the OAED's voluntary work programme will give us, from which there is this provision, as there is for three conservers from the same programme. They're fixed-term seasons, but at least I think they'll help. However, the OAED procedures have been delayed, because they were new programmes, so these first few months have passed without the support of seasonal workers. As far as programming is concerned, it is one of the first priority projects to join the regional NSRP in the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace, with a budget of around 550,000 euros. From there on, there are other programming. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I think I've covered my time. We have the dentistry to explain everything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u75	Minister, the previous governments were judged on the frugality and delay of the project. You, as a government party, took votes from the people of Evros. You have, as you say, a 'fresh people' order', and I appreciate it and I believe that the state has all the time. And I believe that you will link your name to an archaeological site, which is really worth it, as you said before, gives identity, and this archaeological site is, like all of us, archaeological sites. The Evros world is asking for a way out for creativity and entrepreneurship and tourism, but also for visits, is such a way out. Subsequently, highlighting the cultural characteristics of the county is an important step towards improving this product. The work of the Little Doxipara is part of a much wider approach to addressing the historical monuments and locations of Evros. This work must be integrated into a more comprehensive approach to the emergence of the archaeological Byzantine and Ottoman monuments and treasures of northern Evros, as follows. The newest findings of the ancient Plotinopolis near the Dumot, the Byzantine churches that are scattered in the prefecture of Christ, the Saviour and Saint Athanasios within the double walls of the Byzantine Fortress Good Dumot, the first Muslim mosque built on European soil, the so-called Bayazet mosque and much more. Just yesterday I visited the village of Paliouri of the Twin wall, where there is the Holy Church of Agios Panteleimonas, a unique ornament of the 18th century, unparalleled historical and religious importance, which is not receiving the attention that is appropriate to this historical value. All of this, including in the southern Evros and Samothraki, is monuments of undeniable historical value, which must emerge with your help and be a head of the spear in creating a cultural tourist product for Evros in general. But let us not just stay within the narrow limits of historical monuments. There are monuments of course, undeniable value, such as the forest of Dadia, with rich unique flora and fauna, as well as the Delta of the river Evros. Also, how many know, that Evros crosses a huge natural monument, thirty million years old, the Evros fossil forest, which starts from the edges of Alexandroupolis and reaches the Dumotich, centred on the Municipality of Sufli? In fact, before I came here to the House, I met with the Mayor Soufflion and asked him for his assistance and said that he was giving it simplely. I firmly believe that the promotion of the cultural heritage of our country is our duty toward our history and also to our children, and the mild exploitation of our wealth as an integral part of an upgraded tourist product can speed up economic development and ensure the well-being of Evros, which is called not only for the Jews but for all Greeks. Because in this prefecture, progress and development, as in our islands, should prevail, because there is the condom of Athens and the shield of Attica. However, the Evros authorities are aware of the importance of such a project and of a more comprehensive approach. On the occasion of our debate today, I received an official letter from the Municipality of Orestiados, in which the municipality assures, that it supports this aim by every appropriate means and by all means, while a complete dossier has already been filed for the project "Improve the road connection Valtos - Handra - Little Doxiparas", which will ensure a parking space for visitors by bus, with coaches, with cars, precisely for the purpose of highlighting the monument. In addition, we are reminded by the Mayor of Orestiadas, Mr Vassilis Mavridis, of what I constantly call the use of the character of Evros as a portal of Europe. Only one of the three points of entry and exit of Castanes - Ormenis and Cyprus - Ivailograd - is two and a half million people going through each year. Part of this will visit this unique area that the area of Orestiad and Trigon will have. I am already presenting the relevant document with photographs and valuable material, which I think your colleagues will be working on. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I am sure that the Minister will be on this issue, as he has shown his interest in Evros and his cultural heritage through the recent excellent report of the Samothraki relics and findings, organized at the Acropolis Museum and can be visited until September. We invite you, Minister, as I said before, to link your name to Evros and to this archaeological site. You will be proud of this work that you will accomplish and we will be satisfied with your presence at the Ministry of Culture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u77	I would like to continue and tell you that we have the one delay that I have already mentioned. Because of the blockage of money in the Bank of Greece, they cannot buy materials to do the work. I would also like to say to you that there is another slight delay in concluding the programme between the IRS of Evros and the Thrace in order to make the studies and tender documents and to put the project into the new NSRP. This is what I was informed about and we had studied it a month long before you tabled your timely question. I was informed and seen the greenhouse effect that characterizes it, with the nylon greenhouse. But I want to add two additions to your thoughts, to your reasoning. You are doing very well as a Member and you are coming to the central government and you are asking for her help. We must, however, understand all the Members and often the government, that much of the financial resources and responsibilities have been transferred to the regions. The district councillors are small prime ministers. They have a lot of money and a lot of responsibilities. So, as far as the pressure is concerned, the local social and mayors that you mentioned, who love their homeland and appeal to Parliament, should be transferred to the regions and regional councils and demand that they know the resources that the regions have so that they are properly and functionally allocated to development criteria throughout the region. Because that is the point of this decentralisation, of this administrative restructuring. What is happening now is that the Member is coming, is speaking to the Minister, and the Minister is going to find the district manager to convince him to negotiate, so that the district manager can make available the funds on his place and the funds that should contribute to national development planning. Keep this in mind, because we will meet from now on many times. I've already met it. It depends to a large extent on the individuality of the regional authority concerned and how open it is, i.e. whether it is a party ruler or, indeed, a person who cares as a whole for his country and especially for the region he administers. As far as Evros is concerned, you should recognize - since Samothraki is Evros - that Samothraki has a lot of visibility. In fact, in recent months, her report on the Mysteries of the Great Gods has been presented. This exhibition is located in the most predicted museum of Greece, at the Acropolis Museum and has a large number of visitors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With this report, therefore, the world passes, the millions passing through the Acropolis, learn about this miracle of the worship of the Kaveirs and all the great cultures of Samothrace and the entire area of Evros. There has also been great resurrecting work for the Great Bayazet Mosque. Of course, he still has work to do in front of him. However, it is one of the largest mosques in the European area and was integrated into the former NSRF. So we hope that this will also contribute to the promotion of the Ottoman monuments, which for many decades have been despised in the Greek area and did not recognize them as part of our heritage. But these are part of our heritage, as you mentioned. Of course, it is part of our history, the very rich prehistoric monuments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u78	It's part of our story.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u79	Sure. That is what I have to say, and I hope that we will soon be judged by our actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u80	Mr. President, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u81	Here you go, Mr. Public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Minister, for your sensitivity, which is expected to be your character. Please warmly visit us. I will personally host you and we will pass through all these spaces that we have before us and not just. Your presence on the ground, as you said before, is essential between the Ministry and the Secretariat-General of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, may I give an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u85	Answer, Minister. Before, however, I would also like to make a comment. It is important that each regional member should be involved. I say it because I've worked in local government, and I know it. But you know that all the regional authorities in Greece state that they have taken responsibilities that are not accompanied by the necessary resources to exercise them. You must know that as a central administration, because you are also the staff of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u86	I shall therefore make a comment. The fact that they do not have the necessary staff to serve the activities is a matter that I recognise. What I am pointing out is that, many times, resources are not available according to national needs and are plundering. There is no need for personal resources, but for cooperation. There's a difficulty, a reservation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u87	You're right about that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u88	As far as your invitation is concerned, Mr Prussakis, you should not invite me, since it is my duty to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u89	We're happy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u90	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-07-30-S1-commons.u91	With the consent of the House at 11.09 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday 31 July 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
