ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We're entering SUPPLEMENTARY FEDERATION Discussion and holding of a roll-call vote in accordance with Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and 115 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the decision of 26-6-2015 and a proposal of the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum on a critical national issue. In accordance with the agenda, and in accordance with the relevant decision and proposal of the Ministerial Council to Parliament, at the request of the Prime Minister, in the process of the proposed referendum, the Greek people are invited to decide by vote whether the draft agreement submitted by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund at Eurogroup of 25 June 2015 should be accepted, consisting of two documents setting out the proposal on which the referendum is proposed. The first document is entitled ‘Reforms for the Completion of the Current Programme and Beyond’, i.e. ‘Reforms for the completion of the current programme’, and the second is entitled ‘Preliminary Debt Sustainability Analysis’, i.e. ‘Preliminary debt sustainability analysis’. In accordance with the proposal of the Ministerial Council for a referendum, those who reject the proposal of the three institutions are voting 'NON APPROVAL'/ 'WEEK'. People who agree and approve the proposal of the three institutions vote 'ENPRISE'/ 'NEY'. The referendum is recommended to take place on Sunday 5 July 2015. In accordance with the Constitution, and in particular Article 44(2)(1) thereof, the President of the Republic shall, by decree, issue a referendum on critical national matters, following a decision by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, taken on a proposal from the Ministerial Council. Furthermore, in accordance with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which is entitled ‘Proposals of the Ministerial Council for a referendum’, the proposal of the Ministerial Council, requesting a referendum on a critical national topic, in accordance with Article 44(2) of the Constitution, shall be submitted to the Parliament, printed, distributed to the Members and put on the agenda as a matter of priority. The proposal must mention the national issue on which a referendum is requested and the deadline for its implementation and clearly specify the question(s) to which the people will answer. The proposal is being discussed in a similar manner with the provisions of Rules 95 to 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, i.e. those of the original draft law. The vote on accepting or not accepting the proposal is roll-call and concerns the text of the proposal, as tabled or formulated during the debate in the House. The proposal is adopted by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. 151 votes in favour. The decision of the Parliament accepting the proposal of the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum shall be published by order of the President of the Parliament in the Official Journal of the Government not later than 10 days. The decision and proposal of the Ministerial Council to Parliament, adopted on 26 June 2015, was filed in the House, posted and already distributed to all MPs. It contains reference to the crucial national issue, as well as to the precise wording of the question, which the government proposes to be a question of the referendum. This is the first time, since 1975, in the 40 years of validity of the Constitution, which calls for a referendum, it gives the floor and power to this crucial national issue to the people. This is a historic initiative which runs this House with historical responsibility. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The procedure shall be conducted in accordance with Articles 95 et seq. It will begin, as foreseen, with a proposal from the Government. The rapporteurs' positions will be followed by each parliamentary group, as well as one speaker from each parliamentary group. The list of speakers will be placed on the list until the conclusion of the speech by the second rapporteur. The list of speakers will be closed at that time, drawn up by the relevant departments and communicated to the Members. I propose to the House that we follow the procedure as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, with the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that speaking time is 15 minutes for the rapporteurs and special speakers, 12 minutes for the parliamentary representatives in terms of vocabulary, six for the second and three for the third and seven minutes for the speakers. As far as the ministers are concerned, speaking time is eighteen minutes. We have agreed in fourteen minutes for the Deputys and ten for the Deputys. I propose that the debate be concluded at 12 noon by roll-call vote. I would like to ask the House whether it approves this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u2	I want the floor on a point of order then, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u3	This procedure is therefore approved. Mr. Nikos Voutsis, Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u4	I have asked for the floor under Rule 100.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u5	You'll be given immediately after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u6	Madam President, don't do that. The demand for unconstitutionalism precedes the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u8	The request for unconstitutionality precedes it. This is a parliamentary dictatorship. How did we get here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u9	The issue of unconstitutionality precedes it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u10	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u11	You're breaking the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to hold a referendum is absolutely imperative and useful as an option at this stage for this great national issue concerning the present and future of this country and its people. We call on all the wings of the House, all the political parties, regardless of their view of the substance of the negotiation and agreement with the lenders partners, to conclude the absolute usefulness of recourse to the constitutional provision for a matter that is the epic of the national issue, so that our people themselves can speak through the direct-democratic process of the referendum. We also call on them and call on you to defend their role, our role as pillars of democracy under the Constitution, to accept and vote together for the decision to hold the referendum, regardless of the legitimate objections, criticism or even total rejection of the government's negotiating tactics and government policy in the past four months. Our invitation is to everyone. Such a unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament will, as of today, make the country's position stronger in this tough negotiation, which aims to achieve an honest agreement with a strong foundation for the development process, for the rapid social reconstruction and for the productive reconstruction of our country. The people with their widespread, mass participation in the referendum process will directly exercise popular sovereignty and seal with any decision - which will obviously be respected, as the Prime Minister pointed out yesterday - their right to respond, to respond together. Firstly, it is inconceivable that there should be a complete lack of respect for the successive popular choices and for the governments chosen on the basis of their programme in each country of the European Union. It is incomprehensible that the principle of the continuity of the state and respect for international treaties should be translated and invoked as a dictate to every government in the same programme and at the same time to the cynical rejection of the popular will on the basis of which alternatives and also radically opposing ones have been chosen - in this regard - in this case, in terms of non-renote and contrary to the strategy of austerity of choices, to address the real issues of the crisis and the challenges facing our country. Secondly, it is also incomprehensible to consider a process of memoranda that abolishes the limits of the institutional functions and democratic procedures which the Greek Parliament dominate under the Constitution and its Rules of Procedure defines and serves by its decisions. Five years have passed, with texts which come or dictate, translated or intranslated, by factors which often do not have the least institutional substance. The so-called usefulness of legislative acts, even on a massive scale, has been discovered, the procedures of the memoranda and medium-term programmes in a law and an article, recourse to urgent methods. In addition to this, however, all who have created multiple problems in all of us, I believe in relation to respect for democratic processes, this same insistence on anti-social memorials and multiple ratings, has been used in recent years and as an embryonic embryonic for political change across all the political processes, from the existence and functioning of parties to the divisions and reconstructions of governmental structures, to the pressures for the choice of Prime Ministers, governments of national unity, universal, new Prime Ministers, etc. and now we see them circulate. We reached the point in this undemocratic logic a few days ago, in the text that was considered as the basis - the text of the Greek side - and which reflects not our programme, but the few but fully respected red lines on our part for critical social fronts, to erase with their own red ink, whole proposals and paragraphs and to communicate the text to the international media. Arrogance, nonsense or both? All this, however, is indicative of the fact that the views and criticisms of the current government are completely wrong that we have wasted some time, because we have not had any proposals and because we have upset our good partners. How are all these colleagues today thinking in this Chamber, who have been bombing us for so long without themselves taking a clear stand on the substance of the fact that the government was not supposed to have and did not present multiple proposals at all stages of the negotiation, from the second day when we took over the country's rule after the elections on 25 January? Thirdly, the government, as has also been made clear from the Prime Minister's letter yesterday, is not neutral, obviously does not dismiss its responsibilities and does not leave, in the public's commonly called 'to take the chestnuts out of the fire', in relation to the acceptance or rejection of the final proposal delivered by the partner creditors as the document on which our country was to be placed today at noon today. We are obviously calling for the vote on the proposal and the ultimatum accompanying it. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] On the contrary. The government is asking directly and after four months for an unprecedented open, transparent, public and sincere negotiation process, but also for dialogue. And I say this because I have heard 'five days of dialogue' from last night, he says, 'it is not enough'. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u14	What kind of mercy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u15	Five months, four months, not to say before, the whole country, the last and the first - without putting them in hierarchical terms - a citizen of this country, in detail, has contacted the different views. On the contrary, the government is asking directly and after four months of unprecedented open, transparent, public and honest negotiation and dialogue in front of the Greek people, for the people to come to the forefront of developments to put their own seal. It is an invitation and a challenge of unity, conscious attitude, on the different options and respectable distinctive views of all who believe and believe that we are the people of Greece, that we are staying Greece and that, with our presence and our participation in Europe, we are actively taking the lead in changing and transforming into a Europe of solidarity and social provocation of its peoples. Fourthly, we are also called upon to respond to the many time-consuming efforts made to constitutionalise austerity at European Union level, which have unfortunately been exploited to shield itself by rules, provisions and decisions, even non-institutions of the Union, neoliberal obsession with the strategy of austerity, the shrinking of social rights and conquests, the institutionalisation of multi-speed and institutionalised economic and social inequalities within its own structure. The degradation they are trying to do - they have already done so at least in the past with four countries, remember in the recent past for four countries and four referendums and what they have followed - to impose on the referendum processes and their results, a form of marginalisation, is time-consuming and, unfortunately, a large part of the European Union's leaders. Instead, performance increases in opaque pressures, anti-grass scripts and intrigues of Byzantine or modern market perception. Fifthly, the multiple blackmailing of our country with the simultaneous systematic and torture of economic suffocation over eleven months - and in particular the recent five - cannot be left unanswered, not only because it is an unnecessarily constitutional right for Greek MPs and the Greek people to exercise the moral project of resistance to this choice, but also because it cannot be tolerated any project that, beyond all doubt, leads to permanent poverty, to the expansion of the humanitarian crisis, to the permanent degradation of our country and our wider region by despair and the conscious squeezing of all the comparative advantages that our country has in common. Find the courage, even today, to say about the mistake, the deadly recipe imposed on our country and the non-viable debt. Without these assumptions, there cannot be a common vision at least in the face of the great problem that we all have, as we represent the entire Greek people. Sixthly, the referendum will also involve the millions of our fellow citizens who have fled to the limits or even below the limits of poverty, and who many of them live on the shadow side, on the unseen side of our public life, all those who have never given time, microphone, panels and genuine representation within a daily life which, unfortunately, is still underpinned by stereotypes of politicians, mediators and oligarchal groups. We all have a measure of responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, for not listening to our hundreds of thousands of fellow citizens. We, however, today, are taking the initiative we are proposing to the Greek Parliament to restore this right to equal and effective intervention by all these citizens along with us for a decision which will largely affect and seal the country's development and which, to a large extent, has led to the dramatic consequences of the memorandum policies themselves, their lives, their families, their children in this situation they are today. Seventh - nine is all, I will be in my time absolutely consistent, so that the debate can go well - they dared to tell us in different languages and in various ways, "The game is over for you." All political forces know about it in this Chamber. You know that, too. If something differentiates us and tells us today, with the openness of the history, but with the possibility of all the political forces being reinstated positively, it is that we are not prepared to accept that there is a one-way path, that this is the one-way path of monumental commitments and austerity, that in the end we are conscious of a partnership, in which we have only obligations and debts, that is, a Constitution, a parliament, the President of the Republic, the parties to act as factors and institutions of limited responsibility. We're not accepting it! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We do not accept operating in this way, and we call on everyone not to accept it. We do not make any divisional opposition as factors that can function voluntarily, to accept the reduction of the rules and the substance of popular sovereignty and to have blindly placed the country's fates in economic supranational elites. This process for anyone who accepts it - we hope that it is not 'at present' and that everyone who has become wiser - is the clearest, most anti-popular and also extremely anti-European attitude. If we act like this, we don't live in Europe. On the contrary, we are losing our self-respect as a people in a deceiving Europe. So we respond calmly: "The game has not ended for our country, our people, its government and this Parliament." [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The game will end at the expense of those who insist on an undemocratic reduction in the rights of the peoples and an institutional depreciation of the Constitution, of the House and of all the institutions that constitute our sovereign country. Eighth and eighth, we are not only called upon to value, reject or accept the measures which the final proposal of the lenders on whom we were called upon to agree as a country. It is very important to know that part of the agreement, which we were invited to conclude, would - or constitute - be - and the non-responsibility, the non-responsibility of a commonly accepted non-viable debt, that, with this given and the second text, which the President referred to earlier, and since 222 instead of the provision of 110%, there would already be provision for a rate of 140% for the debt, it would appear that, after seven years, the continuation of Memorandum commitments, corresponding agreements and, of course, evaluations by dictating their so-called'reform proposals'. That is, a memorandum and surveillance on the biennial, austerity and limited sovereignty on a permanent basis! That's not acceptable! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] From this step, the Prime Minister in the two updates he made during the negotiations and the discussions that followed at the head of parties for the first time in the last five years, said - because he knew it - that this House alone is the competent body for whom they will tax and how they will be taxed, who will be strengthened and who will offer, so that the final results on the primary surpluses and what was to be agreed with the partners - creditors will be able to come under the agreement. The attempt to impose a completely different logic with strong and obvious unjust class and social mark at the expense of workers, the unemployed, the young, the women, the under-retired and the farmers is obvious and cannot be taken into account by forces of counter-population which, otherwise, are to blame for our negotiating tactics. Ninth: We are sure that this week and in the poll on July 5, everyone will behave with absolute coolness, with absolute confidence, with unity, without divisive challenges, with the wisdom that our people have capitalised, even within these difficult years of the crisis. There has been a lot of pain, a lot of bitterness, a great sense of social injustice, so that it can be a courage - we are sure that no one will dare - to attempt to increase artificially and to increase communication policies hysteria and psychological shock. The calm and determination, the criticism and finally the choice for the lives and future of our children, in different ways, are the values that, together with solidarity, have been dismayed in recent years by those who have tried to divide and fear our people. We are sure that unity through this diversity and the distinct choice of the Greek people will be forged through this top democratic process. We are sure, however, that the message from the referendum will be shocking, it will be catalytic, it will be a key element in an even more favourable correlation of powers and views, on an international scale, in favour of Greek proposals and a fair agreement that will be reached shortly afterwards. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Above all, however, the message is that this people are determined to have and to hold their chances in their hands. And this people, the parties that represent them, are building a new self-confidence, a new strong entity and identity that will mark, beyond the serious economic dimension that obviously exists in the crisis, our decision on a strong development, cultural and worthy moral reconstruction of our country. Let us confirm today that we are not inferior to the historic challenges that will seal the future of our country! Every word of the Constitution is our guide. No dead ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u16	Notifications from the parliamentary groups have been received here. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group with its document of 27 June 2015, signed by the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group Mr Christo Manda, shall communicate the following: "To the Honorable President of the Greek Parliament Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou. Madam President, in discussing and holding a roll-call vote, in accordance with Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure, on the 26-06-2015 decision and proposal of the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum on a critical national issue to be held on Saturday 27 June 2015, we designate rapporteur Mr Dimitris Vitsa and Parliamentary Representative Mr Nikos Philis." A list of speakers has been handed over, as all the parliamentary groups are entitled. This does not affect the right to register with the registration system. However, listed entrants shall precede those registered through the registration system. The speakers are: Gerovasili Olga, Balafas Ioannis, Petrakos Thanasis, Charalapidou Despina, Metropolis Alexis, Hatzilabrou Vasilis, Mandas Christos. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group with its document of 27 June 2015, signed by the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Ioannis Plackatotakis, gives us the following: "Mrs. Zoe Konstantopoulou, President of the Greek Parliament. There you go. Madam President, I am aware that in the plenary debate of 27 June 2015 on the holding of a roll-call vote in accordance with Rule 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and 115 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on the 26-06-2015 decision and a proposal from the Ministerial Council for a referendum on a critical national issue, the rapporteur from New Democracy is Mr Attica Mavroudis (Makis) Vorides.’ A list of speakers is also presented for the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. In particular, Varvitsiotis Miltiadis, Kaklamanis Nikitas, Georgiadis Spyrion - Adonis, Kefaliannis Olga, Bakoyannis Theodora - Dora, Vultesis Sofia. The Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group with its document of 27 June 2015, signed by the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, George Germenis, informs us that at the PM meeting, which will take place on Saturday, June 27, 2015, 12.00, and has as its theme "Convergence and holding a roll call for a decision in accordance with Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and 115 of the House's Rules of Procedure, on the 26-06-2015 decision and a proposal from the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum on a critical national topic", we designate a special speaker at Attica Cassidi and Parliamentary Representative at the Christos Pappas Parliamentary Assembly. The Potami Parliamentary Group with its document of 27 June 2015, signed by the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis, informs us that in the debate and the holding of a roll-call vote, in accordance with Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the 26-6-2015 decision and proposal of the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum on a critical national issue, Parliamentary Representative of the Parliamentary Group Potami is appointed MP Antigoni Liberakis and special speaker, Spyros Lykoudis. The Group of the Communist Party of Greece with its 27-6-2015 document, signed by the party's parliamentary representative Mr. Athanasios Pafilis, informs us that during the debate and decision-making pursuant to Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and 115 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, MP Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos is appointed as special speaker. The Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents with its document of 27 June 2015, signed by the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, knows that during the debate referred to in Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the decision of 26-6-2015 and the proposal of the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum on a critical national topic by the Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks is defined as a special speaker, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos and as a parliamentary representative, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. The PASOK Parliamentary Group with two documents, signed by the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Leonida Gregorakos, is aware that at today's plenary session for a decision under Rule 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the decision by 26-6-2015 and a proposal by the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum on a critical national issue, Parliamentary Representative of PASOK will be the MP, Evangelos Venizelos and a special speaker, Andreas Loverdes. In addition, a document from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group was presented, which defines as the first speaker on the list MP II Piraeus Mr Ioannis Ragos. Following this, and after hearing the suggestion made by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, which referred to the content of the proposal of the Ministerial Council for a referendum, I would also inform you that a request from the PASOK Parliamentary Representative, Evangelos Venizelos, has been made to the Bureau, stating that: "To the President of Parliament. On the proposal of the Ministerial Council for a referendum under Rule 44(2) of the Constitution and Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the House to be taken into consideration in this sitting, I would ask for the floor in order to raise objections to its constitutionality in accordance with Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The applicant MEP, Evangelos Venizelos’. In accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which is entitled to sign 'anti-constitutional questions' and which apply mutatis mutandis to the debate on a referendum, the President of Parliament and any Member of Parliament or a Member of the Government may request, at the stage of the first debate, that the House give a decision on specific objections to the constitutionality of a bill or a proposal for a law. In this regard, the constitutionality of the proposal for a referendum. One of the objections - that is, one of the opponents, the Presidents of Parliament and the Ministers responsible - is that of one of the objections to the previous paragraph. This decision shall be taken exclusively by an upsurge or upswing. In the past in discussing objections to the constitutionality and objections to anti-constitutionalism, the parliamentary groups were given the opportunity to place themselves with the parliamentary representatives. I do not think we have a precedent for the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. However, that is the provision of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, each parliamentary group can make use of either of its powers, speak for either the President or the President of the parliamentary group, or the parliamentary representative or the parliamentary representative on the issue of unconstitutionalism. The speaking time is set at five minutes for the objector, for the person or person concerned and for the representatives of the parliamentary groups. The speeches are made by the Member's seat, because the speaking time is less than seven minutes. I would ask that you tell the Bureau who will be posted by each parliamentary group. Evangelos Venizelos, the applicant Member and Parliamentary representative of PASOK, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, in October 2011, the then President of SYRIZA, Mr Alexis Tsipras, referring to the then Prime Minister, said: "If the Prime Minister attempts to hold a referendum and to give the people the dilemma 'euro measures or exit', then the collapse of the economy will come long before the poll. This will not be a referendum, it will be a dangerous ball for the country." Here we are, with Mr Tsipras' speech yesterday, and Mr Tsipras' announcements - the reverses now - which he makes as Prime Minister. The proposal of the Ministerial Council constitutes an institutional diversion and suffers from manifest and multiple unconstitutionalities, in addition to the enormous political and moral issues raised and to be developed in the debate. The Government proposes that a referendum be held on a critical national issue in accordance with Article 44(2)(a). "Critical national theme" according to the theory of constitutional law and the interpretation of the Constitution, is a matter of foreign policy and security and defence policy, the strategic orientation of the country. The same provision explicitly prohibits the holding of a legislative referendum on budgetary matters. However, the contents of the proposal by the Ministerial Council are entirely, directly and fully budgetary. In fact, the ban on the legislative referendum on budgetary matters is being circumvented by renamed an imminent draft budget to question a critical national issue. What is the national issue? It's a list of measures. If the tax list of measures, in particular, could be put into a referendum, honest, courageous, responsible, it would be the Government of Mr Tsipras to put its own proposal to the European institutions and the International Monetary Fund, the list of 8 billion, which we said was the'street of terror' in relation to the 'child pleasure' of the e-mail Hardouvelis. [[Applause from the wings of PASOK and New Democracy]] In addition, Article 80(2) of the Constitution provides by law for the issue of a currency, monetary policy and monetary area to be regulated. These issues are also financially due to the introduction of fiscal and monetary policy. Questions relating to the currency fate of the country, to the euro or to the drachma, cannot be the subject of a referendum, either legislative or national policy. Secondly, some people say, in good faith, what's the point? Let the people, their sovereignty, be expressed. People's sovereignty is the foundation of the constitution, says Article 1 of the Constitution. But people's sovereignty is not expressed as it may be at any time. It is expressed with European and internationally established institutions, in practical terms. Have you heard anywhere in Europe, in the Western world, a referendum within five days of the election? This is an intrinsic and alteration of the popular will. Because when will the dialogue, the maturity and the organisation of the elections take place? The Referendum Act, Mr. Date of birth: 4023/2011, refers to electoral law. The Constitution and the elections say that "they are taking place within 30 days", as the referendum law says, but there are timetables for electoral law. See how much time it takes for the special electoral lists of civil servants, for the appointment of legal representatives, for the intergroup committee, for the distribution of television time, for the distribution of posters' space. See what a democratic process means and tell me: is that a democracy? This is circumventing the Constitution and attempting to protect the popular vote, i.e. starting a coup. [[Laughers - noise from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't laugh, you don't have a conscience where you're involved. Cannes is also a more pleasant environment than Brussels and Luxembourg. The third unconstitutionalism relates to Article 28(2) of the Constitution and the interpretative statement that we added in 2001 with the Review. The country's European orientation is constitutionally guaranteed and a guarantee is the 3/5-increase clause. Converting European orientation into a divisive question of referendum and, in fact, fraudulently circumvents the constitutional obligation of a large majority and consensus, because the referendum expresses the people with a relative majority, not even with an absolute majority. So the guarantees under Article 28 are being dismantled. The fourth unconstitutionality is that of the question, namely the national issue. Is there a referendum without a question? Is there a referendum with a weak question, with no question, with a contradictory question, with an unknown question? We have been distributed by the Ministerial Council's decision. It refers to two documents. Documents haven't been communicated. Are there? Is it official? They come from an instrument? Are they valid? Are there at the moment on the table of a negotiation? Let's look at them as compared to the government's proposal, see what's the difference at last. And why do you not put the difference of 500 million in a referendum and hide the large volume of 8 billion that the government has accepted and is taking on board for them? What will the Greek people vote for? A text that is not paper by the European Commission or by the IMF? A text that may have changed in the meantime through the eternal negotiation? These are issues relating to the core of democracy, the seriousness of the procedures, the unconstitutionality of the proposal. And how do these matters come about? They are now waiting again for the Governing Council of the European Central Bank to give a drop of salvation to the Greek banking system and while we know that, in fact, until next Sunday, the real data of the country's European course and identity will have changed slowly. The question is forged. You do not even have the courage to ask the question in contrast to the government's proposal. It's forged, because of course who wants taxes, who wants to lose rights? But do you guarantee the citizen that if he says no, he won't pay taxes? Can you guarantee him that he'll get his pension and salary in full? Do you guarantee him that the false promises of the Thessaloniki program will be kept? What do you guarantee him? What is 'yes' and what is 'no'? For us 'yes' is the fact, 'yes' in Europe, 'yes' in the euro, 'yes' in security. And for you "no" is "no" to the stability of the country, "no" to the acquis and "yes" to the drachma, uncertainty, insecurity. [[Applause]] The parliament will discuss and the convinced majority will rise up and reject the objection of unconstitutionality. But the Minutes will also have been formulated by the President of the Republic, who is a guarantor of the Constitution and, furthermore, himself as guarantor of the scientific accuracy of public law and the deposit of Constantine Karamanlis, he must also check the constitutionality of the proposal and the procedure. You will not lead the people to a new deception, the country in the deadlock, you will not make a fool of our country's historic acquis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr Venizelos spoke nine minutes and forty-seven seconds. [[Noise in the Chamber]] So we'll give the rest of the rest of us a tolerance of time. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has also provided us with a document setting out a parliamentary representative, Mr Pafilis, rapporteur, Karathanasopoulos and a list of speakers with Mrs Papapaiga Alexandra, Mr Marino George and Mrs Manolakou Diamandou. It is signed by the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Pafile. Will the Parliamentary Representative speak on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u19	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. We have heard Mr Venizelos' argument on the objection of unconstitutionalism. I must say that it was a speech that continued the substance with the type of unconstitutionalism. A speech that gave the impression of avoiding the major political issue that has come to the National Representation today and concerns the requirement for creditors to implement a policy of destruction of the national and social path.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u22	I'll talk about them later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u23	That is why you spoke, Mr Venizelos, and I would say that you spoke more about these, with a more propaganda, scientific and legal reason. On the substance of the matter, however, now. Objection of unconstitutionalism does not work. None of the arguments put forward are correct. Firstly, the argument that this is a budgetary issue is not the case. The constitutional restriction concerns only a draft draft budget. On the contrary, in the case of the ultimatum assessed, this is a text of greater political importance which will define the country's economic and social life, perhaps for several generations. It will determine the future of our children, the future of society in a long time. The proposal for a referendum tabled by the government is in compliance with Article 44(2) of the Constitution and this is a crucial national issue. This is what we call for: a critical national issue. I would just like to mention and to inform the House that well-known constitutionalists, who would say that politically refer to other places and not to SYRIZA, such as Professor Manitakis and Professor Sotilis, have publicly argued that there is no question of unconstitutionalism on the basis of the alleged argument on budgetary matters. I come to the second argument which one has heard and which one would say is that it is not a question of the Constitution, the question of deadlines. It does not set deadlines, but is laid down in the special referendum law, n. 4023/2011 passed by parliament in October 2011 and also signed by Mr. Venizelos. He is aware, therefore, that Article 12 of that law stipulates that within 30 days of the publication of the Presidential Decree on the referendum the referendum is held. I don't understand what's going on here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u24	Do it tomorrow then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u25	Read the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u26	I'll talk to you later, Mr. Venizelo. The third issue which has been raised is the matter of short time in the sense that a democratic principle is being violated. Unfortunately, this argument violates simple logic. Five years we are not just talking, but we are experiencing what is included in the creditors' ultimatum and five months we are discussing the issues that are today in an extortionist way to be imposed on the Greek Government and state. It is therefore not a question of a well-being of the people's will. On the contrary, this is about respect for the people's will. The government does not want to transfer responsibility to the backs of Greek citizens, but with political responsibility to send a message, that in the negotiation it has started and that it wants to continue with the great majority of the Greek people with it. And the referendum enables, in addition to the particular party controversy and references, the national claim that there should be no further disaster of the economy and of the Greek society. I have heard other arguments - which I do not want to comment on - on a coup rhetoric, on a diversion, etc. Now, let Mr. Venizelos say, the subrogator of such practices with the acts of legislation... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...to blame SYRIZA for a coup, etc., all right, we all understand that. I was surprised that Mr. Venizelos does not live in the opinion of the House, but he is trying to involve in the curious process of violating the Constitution the President of the Republic. We have confidence in the President of the Republic and because of his scientific authority and because of his democratic ethos and because of his institutional perception that he will respect the opinion of the House and will not create, as Mr Venizelos wants, problems and cause obstacles to the expression of the primary popular opinion in the course of the referendum. We could also point out other elements from Mr Venizelos' position. I repeat that it is not a constitutional order, but it is a political order. I respect them. We disagree. As is the argument that there is no question. Why do we have a question? We have a real ultimatum of the creditors. Even if, as is said and read, it may at some point be the ultimatum for creditors to take this away from the table, it is a trick. The content remains. We call on the Greek Parliament and the Greek people to give this commitment and power to the government, to reject the measures of this ultimatum in whatever form they may return to the forefront. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] For these reasons, we call for the National Representation to reject the objection of unconstitutionality, which, as we have said earlier, is more motivated by political feasibility than by concern for the democratic order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. I would like to inform you that a document from the PASOK Parliamentary Group, according to the list presented by Mr Koutsoukos Ioannis, Mr Kegeroglou Vassilis, Mr Constantinople Odysseus, Mrs Christophilopoulos Eve and Mr Constantopoulos Dimitris, has been sent to the Bureau. It is signed by the Secretary of the PASOK Parliamentary Group Mr Gregoraco. In its letter of 27 June 2015, the Secretary-General of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr.Ioannis Psiliotakis, informs us: "We as a Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy for the development of the New Democracy's positions on the issue of unconstitutionalism, and only Mr. Theodoros Fortsakis, and on the other issues, Parliamentary Representative is appointed as MP 2, Athens Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis". Therefore, Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor for five minutes with the appropriate tolerance in order to develop the positions of the New Democracy on the objection of unconstitutionality of the referendum proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that we too have an important issue of the constitutionality of the process, which we are asked to ratify here today. I have listened carefully to what Mr Venizelos said and I welcome them as a whole, so I will not repeat all the arguments he has put forward. I will focus on a number of points, which I think may require further explanation. Five points I'm going to raise. Point one. What does the referendum constitution provide for? I would remind you that Article 44 provides that a referendum is to be held on two major categories of issues, on the one hand on critical national issues and on serious social issues on the other. For the second, serious social issues, there is the need to have a draft legislation, and there is also an exception concerning budgetary matters here. It is clear that in the constitutional legislature's thought the distinction of three major categories is being substantiated: the two I have named and the third, which are the political issues, which, of course, purely political, cannot be the subject of a referendum. It is clear from this breakdown that the budgetary issues are recorded as an exception to the second category of matters that can be referred to a referendum, i.e. serious social issues, budgetary issues cannot be part of critical national issues. Under no circumstances can a budgetary issue, if it is fair, be part of a critical national issue. Asked: What can be the subject of a critical national issue? This concept is used - I would remind you - by the Constitution in Article 41.2, where it speaks of a national issue of great importance which allows Parliament to be dismantled. There is also Article 82.1, which speaks of the general policy of the country. I think we will all agree that a crucial national issue at its core is that which refers to two subcategories: either the security of the country or the international relations. Only if an economic issue with foreign policy or defence issues is completely inseparable, could it be considered as a 'critical national issue'. If the government wanted to do so, it could have asked a different question: 'Do we want to or do we not want to be in Europe?' Since he does not dare to raise the issue openly, then the whole project is blatantly suffering from unconstitutionalism. I think that the role of the President of the Republic is important here. We have full confidence, of course, in both the knowledge of the professor and eminent journalist President of the Republic and in his consciousness of the role he plays at these critical times. I think it is obvious that the government is now trying to take advantage of the displeasure that it is natural to cause the people to take the unpleasant measures, which she has agreed and - as has been rightly said - does not dare to put those to the vote, as it should have been. Let's get her own proposal to the vote, see if the people want it or not. It brings us the similar proposal of the partners and its own proposal leaves it side, because it is of course well aware of what a response it will receive. I think it is clear here that we have a clear unconstitutionalism. It does, because it distorts the essence of the question. The second point is that there is a complete lack of clarity in the question raised. It was said by Mr. Venizelo that we don't know what they're asking us. Even today that we have come here to Parliament, we have a agenda which has not been accompanied by the necessary documents that it names. Is it possible, Madam President, to have a agenda and work for three hundred Members and not to know what we are talking about while the country is falling apart? I consider this absolutely unacceptable, and I think it is a serious shortage, which affects the foundations of our democratic culture. It is clear that this proposal should have been distributed, we should know what it says and we should discuss it. At this point I would like to point out that since we three hundred cannot know what the proposal says, how do you expect the people to know what it contains in a few days' time? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And how do you expect ordinary people to be placed on such complex issues, which the experts do not understand? The third point is the lack of preparation time. The referendum process presupposes that the referendum takes place not only with a clear question but also with a time process which allows the parties involved and especially the voters in particular to understand what it is all about and to be placed. It is clear that time is lacking and that there is a pressure on voters to consent to a process which does not, in time, guarantee the impartiality and objectivity needed. Where is the public dialogue provided for in the relevant law? When will the legislation be implemented and when will all the provisions of the legislation be complied with? Because I recall that the special referendum law refers to the general legislation. To give a small example, it is predicted that three days after our decision that the votes should be tabled. At the same time, it is foreseen that five days before the operation should have been distributed. Isn't there a little time problem? And what do you think? That the Areos Ice will close its eyes and will it not insist that the electorate be elected next Tuesday? Or do you think this distortion, which is being attempted, does not constitute a significant state anomaly? I think it is time to say things by their name, much more because I firmly believe that this is a project that has been set up for a long time to lead the country out of Europe to another geopolitical position, which wants a large portion of the government, not all of the government, I hope and hope, but a large portion, which at the moment seems to have taken the upper hand. The fourth point is that there is false information about the consequences of the people's vote. This is a major constitutional problem and a constitutional distortion. Of course, with constitutional or rather unconstitutional issues, legal issues are also involved. False information is that it is left to the impression that the people can vote 'no' in the agreement, but remain within Europe. I heard the Prime Minister yesterday in his letter, in his statements to the Greek people saying “no”, to negotiate better”. False! “Declar “no” to leave Europe, stay out of Europe and change geopolitical choice.” That's the reality. And this distortion of public opinion is a very serious constitutional problem. Finally, the fifth point is that the transfer of responsibility from the government to the people is unconstitutional and unacceptable. For five months the government will not negotiate. It arrived at the end of the five-month period and with the back of the wall it submitted a document, which is infamous in relation to what Greece had ensured before the government took over and now moves to the backs of the afflicted people, that is, what stands all night long to get the 100 euros and the 200 euros that will allow him to survive the crisis that led him by the government and they say "you, I, the Prime Minister, do not do so". Only the junta did that. In 1973 I was a student, and I remember that Papadopoulos asked the anti-basics to vote against the kingdom, because he believed that he would defy their vote and show that they are supposedly philosophers. This kind of cheap propaganda has no place in our state and constitutional system. If the government wants to put a dilemma on the people, ask 'you want Europe or you do not want it?' However, the best thing for me and the most constitutionally dignified and valid one would be to resort, if it considers it useful, to the elections, because otherwise it has a government majority here - at least this way - which can give it a solution. It is urgent to get rid of this process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I close with a last question of half a minute: What if tomorrow's proposal by the partners changes by two or three paragraphs? Are you going to call us back here to make a new referendum? What if we have a new proposal again on Thursday? And what if, after all, the institutions tell us this afternoon 'you have no room for it, the game is over'? And why are you asking for an extension of the memorandum, if you want to come out of the memoranda, to give people the impression that we are supposedly going to move on safely in the referendum and that there will continue to be this money which will be deprived from one day to the next? It is urgent to withdraw and abolish this process and return to the constitutionality imposed by the critical circumstances we are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u29	Bravo! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u30	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u31	Ten minutes and fifty seconds you spoke and time hadn't started from the beginning. So you went over him and suggested that he be objected. Mr. Pappas has the floor on the Golden Dawn side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u32	Later, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u33	Okay, later. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Lymmerakis, has the floor for a statement from the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u34	Does New Democracy have time to leave the Chamber in my time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u35	No, Mrs. Libertyraki, I'll remove him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in a dramatic decision the Ministerial Council called on the House - all of us - in the negotiation process - to underline and repeat: in the negotiation process - to proceed to a referendum on a serious national issue with a question as to whether the Greek people accept the two texts of which the title has not even been translated, and that is why it was necessary to give them up, Madam President - I must say - and in good English. In fact, what we are discussing here today is a big question: in the context of the negotiation is a move that will strengthen us or is it a move that will weaken us? Before the debate began, many interesting issues were raised by Mr Venizelos on constitutionality and on whether such a procedure is meaningful and institutionally correct. Many of the issues that he has mentioned are, in fact, major issues that we need to discuss: if the question is clear, whether the text to be rejected or accepted is a given and stable text, what happens if the answer is 'yes' and what happens if it is 'no' and so on. There are many issues, deadlines, if they are of a budgetary nature. It's all serious. But I think that before the debate even starts to turn a crucial, dramatic one, I would say, political one on an issue of interpretation of the Constitution and the laws, it is a rather common practice of the political system, but that is not the kind of procedure that does good in the matter that we are discussing. A legal, constitutional, procedural approach can close a matter, but that will not say that it is dealing with it. Despite the fact that we have enough sympathy for the views that claim to be unconstitutional, we are not, however, those political parties, which judge constitutionality or unconstitutionality. For us what we have before us is a very great challenge at a time when a huge issue is being decided, within five days we will give an answer - if we go so - which will judge the lives of five generations. It's not time for us to hide, nor for us to be late. And since I am not going to waste my time, let me say in parentheses that neither the absolute reading of all the letters from the parties, Madam President, with the repetition seven times, of the 'Honourable Madam President, according to the law', is something that promotes the real political debate on the crucial and national dramatic issue that we have before us, whether or not we are staying in Europe. I would therefore like the whole political system, all of us and all of us, in other words, not to drag our feet, by repeating procedural or institutional responses, because we are judged on the substance. So we in the Potami would not like to make cheap points of impression. We've been trained in this in our students years and we could do it, but it doesn't make any sense. We don't want to hear who loves his country and who doesn't really love her. We do not want to hear who at the back of his mind has a great plan, which is now revealed. We want to talk about the main thing, politically and frankly, the choices we have in front of us now at the eleventh hour. In order to do so, let the President of the Republic decide on constitutionality and we shall proceed to the point. I think we have too many things to say and the less we deal with institutional gestures, the greater good we do in democracy, but above all in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. Let me tell you that it is a planned procedure for the House to decide on issues of constitutionality or unconstitutionality. And the House is responsible. You have made a substantial position, but let us not get to view the issues of constitutionality as a brake on the real debate. As regards the President of the Republic, in order not to be ‘surrected’ in this Chamber, to suggest that the President of the Republic could prevent the referendum from taking place: The President of the Republic is institutionally aware of the whole process and institutional contact with me as President of the Parliament for the implementation of democratic constitutional procedures that have been initiated. I think this should be cleared up in the Chamber so that it does not "surpass" as a hint, that a debate on a top issue and a major national issue should be held. On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Parliamentary spokesman Mr Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. We believe that, despite all the problems that really exist, there is no question of unconstitutionality in this decision. The main thing is the point now. What is the government doing today with this proposal? It calls for a referendum on the Greek people with its own proposal to reject the proposal - how do you want me to say to them, by their name - the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund and to adopt, support the government's proposal? That is the substance and it has been said more clearly. As far as I understand it, so did Mr. Voutsis. Both contain barbaric anti-grass measures and move in the same direction, unless 8 billion. They are not barbaric anti-grass measures. So what does he actually call on the people to do? To choose or propose - carrots of the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank or the Greek Government's proposal - plundering. The Communist Party of Greece calls on the Greek people to reject such dilemmas and support the proposal of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, which I will read and then submit to the Bureau. "Proposal from the Group of the Communist Party of Greece for the content of the referendum: The Government proposes to hold a referendum on the question whether the people approve or reject the proposal for an agreement between the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. The Group of the Party of European Socialists considers that the issues to be raised in the Greek people's crisis are the following: Firstly, not in the proposals for an agreement between the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the Greek Government. Secondly, release from the European Union, abolition of the memoranda and all their anti-grass law enforcement.' We are tabling this proposal. We are addressing it mainly to the Greek people, but we are addressing it here and on the way we will discuss the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. I would ask that the proposal, which has been tabled, should also be presented. The Minister responsible, the Deputy Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Katrugalos, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments heard do not concern constitutionality. It's pretextual. They were put forward so that the substance of the referendum could be summarized. That doesn't make me wonder. Traditionally the political system and the political elites in Greece had an allergy to the forms of direct democracy. We have never actually had a referendum in about ninety years of parliamentary life, except in the form of a culture. The arguments which have been heard - three are essentially - are whether it is a budgetary issue which is forbidden by the Constitution, what is going on with the deadlines and, thirdly, whether time allows for the development of this democratic dialogue that the democratic authority imposes. First of all, I should like to say to you that on the first point, no constitutionalist of the theory had ever doubted that it was a national issue, which could not only be a question of a referendum but also a reason to dismantle the House if the government so requests. And we have previously had the dissolution of this House in response to issues of a national economy. So I do not think there is any doubt that the question of debt is inconsistent with the prospects of the Greek economy and of the Greek society. It recommends the major national theme of the days. It is also obvious - this has already been developed by Mr Philly, and I do not need to be more detailed - that the ban on a referendum is only in the draft budget. Other things that have been heard that political issues cannot be the subject of a referendum, I believe that they also go back to the suspicion they have - both theoretical and political - that do not share our own ideas of direct democracy towards this institution. The deadlines: no time limit has been set for the Constitution. There are given that there are deadlines in the respective law, which, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the legal order, will ensure that the referendum can be organised in the best way possible next week. Obviously the practical problems that our Ministry - Nikos Voutsi and mine have to solve - are issues which are not addressed to unconstitutionalism and which we both guarantee will be resolved in the best way possible. I would like to say here that the issue of deadlines is always working in the legal order. It seeks to serve another value. What's the value here? The involvement of the people in decision-making. This would be a crucial question of constitutionality in the time that has come, if the time were not sufficient. But these issues we're talking about, what are they? All about debt, the prospects of the Greek economy, its non-violence, we haven't talked about them five months since January, we have been talking about them five years. It is one of the few issues that have been thoroughly exhausted in the public debate and perhaps it is the only issues that have been discussed and in the upcoming public European area.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u41	Is that what we're talking about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u42	I say we have a day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u43	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u44	So all of this, which have been set, really what do they reveal? Your permanent suspicion in asking the people about political issues concerning him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u45	You asked him on 25 January.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u46	The people spoke on 25 January, in fact, and that is why there is no question of elections. But it must be clear that we must have a primary political decision confirming two things: on the one hand, that the Greek people say 'no' to subjection and, on the other, to the question of Europe's identity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u47	Are you directing the people now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u48	You tell us that the practical dilemma is not the rejection of the unacceptable proposals of creditors. We are told that the dilemma is 'yes' or 'yes' in Europe. We are clearly telling you that we want the referendum, precisely because we want democracy in Europe. Because the European structure has been built on the principles of democracy, which are at the moment questionable when we hear the great game over or on the one-way, the only economic policy that the markets impose on democracy. We insist that democracy should give the tone to the economy, not the markets in politics. For anyone who wants the second, who wants the markets to be the final judge, actually wants the interests of the few to be imposed on the interests of the many and the market towards democracy. And it is entirely misleading to want to repeat what we have heard from our foreign partners in the past that the dilemma is 'euro or not','stay in Europe or not'. We want to stay in Europe, but in social Europe, in the Europe of democracy. And we do not want the Europe of neoliberalism and austerity. And what we are doing at the moment with the referendum is not only a service to the Greek people. Greece is currently the mirror of Europe's future, be it Europe will be the Europe of rising social inequalities, the abandonment of the European social model, or the Europe of social rights and freedoms. There is therefore no question of unconstitutionality. The arguments of unconstitutionalism have been put forward in advance and with behaviour that shows allergy to the democratic principle. The fact is that they were not even followed by Potami, which is friendly to the general political argument put forward and should therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I, like all of you, have listened very carefully to what the outgoing President of the PASOK, Mr Venizelos, has said, and indeed to the point of talking about a coup - since yesterday, they are truly repeating what we have heard from yesterday, when this referendum was announced, are showing the media which have made the memorandum packets in the past five years. In other words, they avoid being placed on the subject. But the worst part is they do not understand. We have heard what is going on here: 'What is going on?', 'We do not know what we are talking about', 'What are you calling on the people?' And yet, the Minister for the Interior, even for those who did not understand, such as the well-being and the unbelievable - who did not read the memorials in the previous years - was so detailed and specific that he mentioned one, two, three, four, nine reasons! It is a question of wondering when teachers, academics at the level of Mr Venizelos and Mr Fortsakis can still say that they did not understand what Mr Voutsis said! So the Greek women and the Greeks who heard the Minister didn't understand? But do you know what the most important of all is? The Greeks and the Greeks do not need to listen, because they have lived in their pedestrians for what they are now given the opportunity to place themselves with a great "yes" or with a great "no". Of course, the big question is not whether or not we are staying in Europe. Of course we're staying. Why are they trying to confuse the world? Did any of us here say that we do not want to stay in Europe or that we are not staying? Who, after all, can get us out of Europe? Who can get us out of our house? Did anyone say that there is a question of euro or drachma? After all, if it were to be a matter, since they spoke of the President of the Republic with such commendable and flattering reasons - and rightly so, since they gave him, like me, a cross to become the President of the Republic - they should remember that if they were as concerned, they would have resigned. Besides, Mr. Pavlopoulos said it himself a few days ago. He said, "Look, I'm the President of the Republic of Dragon, I'm not staying." I would like to ask the President-in-Office whether he would like to make a statement on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. If I am not mistaken, in fact, he was the one from young people - when I entered the House in 1989, he came a little later - defending the issues of constitutionality of the normal New Democracy and not the mutant, because we heard here from Mr Samaras' spokesman telling us that he probably lived in another country all five years of the memorial glaciers, because he did not understand any of the things that the Greeks and the Greeks felt relief. Even those who through terrorism who have been accepted by the media from yesterday to this hour are on the bank line, if you ask them, you will see how they are placed. Do they know or don't know what they're gonna do on Sunday? Because they know very well and the Greeks have decided, so you can see now that this battle is being fought. Isn't that a constitutional thing? It's not a national matter, is it? When we say, "You won't have money for your defense and I'll be able to deprive you of this right to defend your borders, if necessary, or your national independence, for you don't exist," isn't it a matter? Is it not also a question of whether this place will have a future or whether it should remain despite EMU and, as we have heard, it is a 'EIA country', as the 'Minister of Responsibility' said? Aren't these national issues? Was it not a national issue whether we should lead the Greeks to extinction or even our homeland too? Aren't these national issues? What are the major national issues? We heard Mr Samara's spokesman say: 'A, a referendum? Only the junta did a referendum!” And he remembers it, he says, where he was a kid. No, Mr. Fortsakis! Another referendum was held by Constantine Karamanlis. Constantine Karamanlis said then that thanks to that referendum, a solution was given to the state issue, which, as a carpenter, tortured the political life of the country for many decades. So now the people will solve this gordian bond. However, you and those who still have the opportunity, if you think that both proposals are bad, say 'no' to both. Don't you have that possibility? Why would you say yes? Ladies and gentlemen, today I was asked by a Greek who also has a last name - not only the smugglers and blackmailers of the Greek people - the following: 'Mr. Nicholopole, if Mrs Merkel were to vote, what would they vote on Sunday?' Depending on this, each one of us can and now, when judging the issue of constitutionality, think about what strangers would like from us. Those who say that they would like to say 'yes' to everything,' really deserve that, to say 'yes'. But they must come out to say it boldly and know that their identification with them will follow them forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Only the Golden Dawn Parliamentary spokesman remains to speak if he wants to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u52	I don't want to, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u53	You don't want to talk. So, in accordance with Article 100, we shall vote on a motion for a resolution. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Voutsi, please sit down, otherwise you will be regarded as risen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u54	He's uprising, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u55	They're uprising. Please beg those who object to the objection raised to rise. [[Membership of the New Democracy and the PASOK]] It is clear that the required number of Members has not been raised and the objection is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, the number of Members of the New Democracy is equal to the number of Members of the PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u57	It's true, Mr. Nicholas. We are entering the recommendations on the agenda. SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u58	Prime Minister, Madam President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group unanimously accepts the Government's proposal to hold a referendum on the proposal for an international monetary fund, the European Central Bank and the European Commission agreement. We declare that we will work with devotion so that our people can express their will democratically and freely. We declare that we will work with a commitment to democratic freedoms, in particular democratic dialogue, the confrontation of ideas and political approaches. We declare that we will be blocking any extortionist dilemma or enforcement effort through the development of fearful syndromes. As a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, we say, finally, that we call on our people to participate massively and decisively in the referendum and propose that it vote with courage, confidence and hope for the present and for the future of Greece and Europe 'no'. So let us talk about responsibility and responsibility. The government, SYRIZA, its parliamentary group, for more than five months now faces a strong pressure on the part of the institutions, faces threats, faces financial suffocation and faces a proposal that calls for the continuation to an exaggerated degree of social austerity, impoverishment, the demand for enslavement of the Greek people and of all European peoples. In the face of this challenge, we are responding to 'no'. Let me say that I do not consider it an honour for the status of Greek MP and Greek MP to say 'I do not know the proposal', which has been discussed for five months and was submitted yesterday to the Eurogroup. Let's make it easier for them to return to her again. It's in English as usual and you're used to it, but I imagine you can read it and appreciate it. And whoever would like to come to me to give it to him and see my own remarks. On our part we have done everything possible for a compromise, a compromise which was not easy and it would not have been easy, but would have given space to democracy, would have enabled the country to be rebuilt at an economic, social and political level, to strengthen European cohesion, in a direction that is definitely opposite to the one that has been wrong, from the direction of intense and one-sided memorial austerity. We have tabled concrete proposals. It was a proposal that honoured the negotiation and we know well that it required us a lot of work and at all levels. The lenders did not understand, they did not see that there was an election on January 25, they did that they did not understand the order, they felt that what changed was just the faces and that only the discussion was about it. But the elections not only change people, change politicians, choose politicians. The lenders, therefore, stayed in "work as usual". They had become accustomed to telling them in their other languages and being poorly accepted. They probably thought SYRIZA was a force that bluffs. We warned them. The Greek people warned them in the clearest way. There is the Greek people's mandate to negotiate hard to end the social suffering, tolerance, unemployment, rebuilding the country within Europe and do so within the Eurozone. That's what we're doing and that's what we're going to do. We did not have a mandate to enslave societies into the mountains of speculators and bankers. We have no mandate to sign the disaster of the economy, to sign the destruction of the operative cause of United Europe, to sign the destruction of hope for democracy in practice. And here I come to the question: Who really is responsible, who puts on the table a specific proposal for a difficult compromise, or who then considers this proposal a possible basis, the next time he comes back to the previous one - which he thinks is a generous proposal - and the next day he asks the Greek Parliament to meet, first to vote for his own proposal and then he will see what he will do? Who's in charge? Is the one who asks for his political decision to enter the test of the sacred and sovereign opinion of the Greek people? Let the New Democracy colleagues remember what the 2009 elections were demanded. Just remember what the national reason was, whether it was economic or not? So all we have heard from authors of constitutional law or administrative law, in fact, have also contradictory in themselves, why can't you ask and say 'Why do you put this and do you not put the other one?' You're actually saying you have a right to put that on. Why can't you put half of it and half of it on the other? You're actually accepting that you can put it on. This is the way, when your political self-determination and your micro-group - if you want - will take your mind and make it say things, which, in one sentence, you say, in the other sentence, are undeniable. So who's in charge now? Is the person who asks for his political decision to enter the test of the sacred and sovereign opinion of the Greek people or of the perverse question, whether to cause fear by expressing his mystic desires or serving micro-party purposes? As far as the previous Greek governments are concerned, we have seen and lived her. This responsibility laid down one policy, was a sub-cheque on the one hand, but also a sub-accept by the political forces, on the other hand. And this policy destroyed society and the economy, but on the other hand it rescued foreign banks, which held Greek bonds. They were these bonds, through which these same governments borrowed, to create a client state, to create a private state sector, to open roads to both speculators and misadversaries. These policies have destroyed society to protect private interests, but also to increase the profits of these private interests in the crisis, to increase the profits of economic and political elites across Europe. When there were streets, they chose not the wrong, but their social preference. That's what they chose when there were other streets. We have fought for all these years on the basis of right preference and social preference and we will serve it. Instead of representing Greece in Europe, instead of representing the European ideal in Europe, at the bottom of the script, instead of representing the voters, these governments and politicians chose to express the orders and options of the troika. Let us not remember specific incidents, one would say, a representative of the Troika who said that Greece should reach a minimum wage of EUR 300 and go by saying. That is, in my opinion, the measure of responsibility and of the then and now. This is a very specific issue and it needs to be answered by all the political groups: what do they say about this agreement? 'Yes', 'no','maybe', 'they', 'I go out of the Chamber'. Five choices. There are political forces here, which say'sign an agreement, it doesn't matter, whatever this agreement is, it will keep us in Europe, we're done'. There are other political forces on the other side. Instead, we're going back to our old self. To the one who squeezes the flag of fear. We are threatened, Greek people, that the main issue is whether or not the euro and the Eurozone. Would you like to be that question. And I'm not telling the Greek powers. I say this first and foremost in those economic and political elites, which are currently dominating Europe. This is not to be done either in the circles facing societies as a submissive national or in the canalarchs in Greece or in the major economic interests in Greece. In Europe, everything will be done. In Europe, everyone will assume their responsibilities. We call on the Greek people to say a bronze 'no' to the proposal for an agreement made by the lenders, the institutions. And this 'no' will bring it to the negotiating table. And when we talk about this, we are being answered again with new threats. Is that the Europe you dreamed about? Do you dream of this Europe, that is, the Europe of extortion and threats, a Europe where some are bosses and some are parables? Is this the Europe of your expectations? We believe that the attitude we take is not only Greek, but first and foremost European. It is the attitude that is coming to unite with the needs of all the societies of Europe which, one way or another, are currently being affected by the policy of the sovereignty of speculators, the sovereignty of bankers, the policy of austerity. The European elites want and build a Europe where profits will be commensurate, because they gain the vast majority. But the burdens will be alone and will help - if they want to help - voluntarily. See and yesterday's decision of the Heads' Summit on immigration. Take a stand on this one, too. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a time of great responsibility to the people, home, Europe and democracy. We must defend it, seriously explaining each other's positions, with integrity to safeguard the smooth confrontation, with responsibility for addressing the threats they have as an instrument and a measure of extortion, fear and panic. San SYRIZA, we are sure that the Greek people have both pride and sense of responsibility and mind, with coolness and sobriety to decide. We, SYRIZA, in the clearest way, express our position: 'no' to the proposal - an agreement which leads to the perpetuation of the disaster. 'yes' to the unbundled expression of the Greek people, 'yes' to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. The rapporteur, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government recommends to the House that we accept its proposal to hold a referendum with the question, as formulated, whether or not we agree on whether or not the Greek people will agree with the proposal of creditors, with the proposal of the European Union, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund. Unconstitutional issues have been raised, the House has expressed itself. Non-legality issues were raised, particularly as regards the non-compliance with the deadlines laid down by the law. I assume the government is thinking about the issue of deadlines. The main political issues remain to be raised. I would like to ask and ask, ladies and gentlemen, this: what is it that we call on the Greek people to decide? There is, he says, a proposal from the European institutions. This proposal does not like the government. Yes, sir. And why doesn't the government have a mandate to reject it? Did he reject it? What further needs? This government has been elected, it is assumed, with this very mandate, that it should negotiate, make tough and proud negotiations, result in positive, negotiating, within the Eurozone, ending austerity. That's what the government and the Prime Minister say. Wonderful. Don't rush. Since he has this mandate, why doesn't he reject the proposal and continue as he thinks? What is that additive that is needed for the Greek people's decision? Because the addition we need, ladies and gentlemen, which is why it appeals to the Greek people, is obviously an additional mandate that does not have it at the moment. What is this additional order? Tell us again what I hear, that you disagree with these proposals, with the policy of austerity, with the political elites in Europe? We've heard of this. We've heard it for years. We've gotten away from it. You're in the government. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Let go. At these moments, let go. So what's the big one here? Because the proposal, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the financing of the country, because there is no funding, because the lack of funding leads to bankruptcy, because it leads to a failure to fulfil the economic obligations of the country, for which you have no mandate, because it leads to an end to the programme, for which you do not have a mandate, because it leads to the collapse of the banks by sealing the ELA, for which you do not have a mandate, because it leads to a terrible recession and a failure to pay pensions and salaries in a little, for which, of course, you do not have a mandate, because to meet this need, you will have to return to a national currency, which throws us out of the Eurozone and thus out of the European Union, that is the truth of the mandate! That is why it is not the agreement, it is Europe, yes or no! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's the truth. Otherwise, you had no reason to ask for any of this. You don't like the deal? Don't do it. You have a clear mandate from the Greek people to negotiate. But I am also asking myself the opposite. And what will be added to 'no'? Does the position of the European institutions change because there is a 'no'? Aren't you saying that your command to end austerity is fresh and clear? What do you want? Tell you one more time? They told you five months ago. Did you tell them you were going to end the austerity? Did you tell them you were going to abolish HISBIA? You told them you'd bring the tax back to 12,000 euros? Did you tell them you were going to raise the minimum wage? Did you tell them you were going to give them the thirteenth pension? You told them you'd give them 2 billion to deal with the humanitarian crisis? Dream. Do it. Why don't you do it? Who hurt you? I can hear you smiling here: 'They do not leave us the European structure.' Aren't you elected with these? Apply them. You've got a little bit of a problem: you don't have any money. One detail you miss, always missing, that you never had. All this nice program, which you cost 12 billion, is 12 billion plus 22, the country's obligations this year. It's 34 billion. And now you've come to the government, Mr. Ministers, and from where we were in the nice world of the Left, we're flying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u61	How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u62	...unless of the reality, where we were from elsewhere... I have not heard the remarks made by the noble Madam President. I don't think I've lost anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u63	I said if you were in the nice left world too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u64	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u65	Come on, that's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u66	It doesn't bother me privately. You can go on as you think. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, in fact, what are you asking the Greek people to tell you? You are asking, however, for the truth, in order for the debate to be clear, to be approved by Europe. That's what you're asking him for. All the rest, all the rest of the orders you have. I'm coming, I'm wondering... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Did I hear Shoeble's name from somewhere? Because there is also an interest there. That a number of circles in Europe - I do not know if this is the Minister of Finance - are also in agreement with you in the view of the referendum. And by coincidence, there are all those circles that want to see Greece leaving outside the eurozone! It's the drachma lobby! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have European friends. That's true. It is true that they support you on this. The referendum has been fascinated by some. Look at a coincidence, which is all those who don't want Greece in the Eurozone. It's a strange thing! But I'm coming to the other. I also wonder when I heard the Prime Minister yesterday saying: 'I will respect the result, whatever it may be.' I get it. If he is 'no', I understood what he would respect. He will respect his suggestion to the Greek people, he will tell him "no" and we will see how we go further. What if it's 'yes'? What are you going to respect? Will you bring in a vote on these proposals? Will you apply them while you disagree while you don't believe them? Mr. Petrako, is IPTO going if it's yes? Will you vote for it then? We'll see?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u67	Did I say "we'll see"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u68	Then what do we do with the referendum if it's to see?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u69	80% of the people will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u70	Watch out. So, in order to be informed here, the referendum, apart from the character I described to you, which is the 'yes' or 'yes' character in Europe, has another character, 'yes' or 'yes'. Because, if it is 'yes', the next day, I hope, Minister, that you will be here with your resignations. Not after the vote on your position, tell us 'we did not understand, rain and go ahead'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So two are indeed the demands of the referendum and nothing to do with the agreements. First and foremost: 'Europe: yes or no', second and great: this 'first time left' government, which led us to these deadlocks, 'yes' or 'no'. And it is clear what the Greek people will answer: 'yes' in Europe and 'no' in the government. This is what you will collect on Sunday if you reach the referendum that far. I wonder, however, whether I continue and think: what is it, too, that is unfolding in front of us, ladies and gentlemen? Listen. We started from the election season and all the things we have heard have been said. I, who fight for an entire life against the Left, sincerely, believe that there are people of goodwill who believe that they are doing the right thing, having their perceptions. I wanted to ask by hand in your hearts all, when you read the government's proposals - leave the creditors' proposals - how do you like it? That they ended the austerity? The suggestions of your government. Mr. Lafazani, I remember you in the bars at the port of Thessaloniki and your Prime Minister has signed his privatisation. An entire life you left would expect to come to power. To privatize? To apply restrictive policies? To apply and exercise the hard neoliberalism that Mr. Vits said? Because obviously, if you put the two sentences next to - next to - slowly if they are five points at a VAT point above or if they are five points tax at another point down. Is that not an austerity? How do you feel today after this? How do you feel about lying to your voters? How does it feel to tell them that you will abolish the Troika and the Memorandum? How does it feel to tell them that you will end the austerity? How you feel about telling them and feeding them all that you have been feeding them to elect and today your Prime Minister has been enclaved because he signed it. By the way, to open another conversation, you know this is the only signed card. What you have in your proposal, I don't know if they've been signed. I don't even know if they're documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u71	The proposal's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u72	She's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u73	Yeah. He just retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u74	The proposal's withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u75	Isn't that a proposal anymore?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u76	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u77	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u78	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u79	Will we vote in the referendum on an inexistent proposal? This really belongs to surrealism. Unless you want to make a referendum in which to ask the following question: 'We like austerity policies or do we not like them?' How charming! And what important such a decision is and how specific this issue is. No proposals, Minister now? Isn't there a proposal from the lenders? What are you gonna say? Do we reject the proposal of non-existent lenders? Dismiss it. So what? Another question that should concern you, ladies and gentlemen. I didn't hear you asking. Where's Mr. Vitch, where's your rapporteur? Mr Vitsa, colleagues of SYRIZA, I am sure that you are all responsible, that you are fighting, that what you are now seeing is people's tails waiting at the machines in the banks, is something that you are concerned about, which you are taking into consideration, which you are thinking about. Two minutes: I have not heard the major question about this matter to the Government: have you ensured that it is extended? Have you ensured that we are not in a state of bankruptcy outside the programme without ELA? Are you taking care of this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u80	Tomorrow morning... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u81	Why else what is Parliament called upon to decide? Can Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, decide on the collapse of the banks today? Is that what you want to decide here today? Is that what you're going to vote on? Are we going to decide that we're out of programme, that we're in bankruptcy? What is the government's guarantee here to the Greek Parliament on these issues? Is there a minister gonna tell us something? Minister, do you have anything on this to keep us quiet? Do we have a reassurance of yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u82	Keep on worrying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u83	But all the people are worried.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u84	Yeah, we're worried. However, because we will vote at 12 o'clock at night, ladies and gentlemen, you - because we know what we are going to do - keep the Minister's concern, because it will be a burden on you, since the government does not guarantee it, that is a decision that falls on your backs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] With your permission, Madam President, I want two or three more minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause lively and protracted from the wing of the New Democracy]] There's another matter coming. Why did we get here? Indeed, our country has had a hard time these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u85	Answer me. Why did we get this far? It's a nice question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u86	I'm extremely happy, my colleague, that you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u87	It takes two minutes to give the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously in November, we were not discussing whether wages or pensions would be paid. We weren't discussing whether the country would go bankrupt. In November, we were not discussing whether the machines in the banks would have any money. We came out of a great difficulty, but we didn't talk about such things. You promised what I told you. You didn't fulfill anything. You have led the country to the elections with your lack of consent to the issue of the President of the Republic, abused such a right. You went to the election, you won them. You said the proud deal began, the one with the nice red lines on the jacket, with the stylistic choices of the little mysteries. This negotiation has begun. This negotiation, you held it for five months, drying the country out of cash, leaving it without anything, with an agony with a month, as to whether the money can be paid for wages and pensions. You arrived at the end of the quarter that you took with your back now stuck on the wall. I wonder. Did you miss all this? Did they accidentally happen? Didn't the government get any trouble that we're going there? What is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? The truth is, you've been carrying out an organized plan since the beginning. There's SYRIZA's secret agenda. Behind the rhetoric of anti-neoliberal Europe and the other Europe that are visible and of so-called Europeanism, we are actually mathematically led to one vote that they think will carry out their plan. What plan? To meet outside Europe. So we tell you very clearly. The Greek people took you up. On Sunday he'll give his answer. And his answer will be 'yes' in Europe, 'yes' in democracy, 'yes' in Greece. This is Sunday's answer for all Greek patriots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u89	Mr Vorides, as rapporteur for the New Democracy, you referred to a withdrawal of the proposal contained in the referendum and even exchanged confirmatory condemnations with the Members of your party. Do you want to clarify to this House what you meant?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u90	No, I don't want to clarify anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u91	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u92	But we will be happy to accept clarifications from the government on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u93	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u94	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u95	I would like to point out that in Mr Voridis's seventeenth speech, there was not really a half word about responsibilities, tactics, opinions, lines, choices of country's lenders to the Greek Government, our country and the Greek people. Nothing! Not even today! And he put a number of questions on the assumption that we are vacant, that we are in the previous debate that had taken place here or in the previous debate on the Prime Minister's initiative. We're not there! He hasn't escaped you. It is certain that it has not escaped you because it was found at the end from the crown and the climax you have made of how fighters you will vote 'yes' on this proposal, which two minutes ago you said there is no longer, so what are we going to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u96	Where's your proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u97	'Yes' in Europe, the man said. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u98	You're agitated...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u99	'Yes' in Europe he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u100	You're agitated. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Just a minute, please. You are committed to supporting this unacceptable proposal. You're fleeing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u101	You panic, panic!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u102	You're fleeing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u103	I would ask the Members of the New Democracy to be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u104	Calm down and listen. You have a great nervousness and embarrassment after last night. Listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u105	You guys have panic!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u106	Don't suffer so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u107	Let the MPs speak. Don't answer every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u108	Not at all, Mrs. Vulture. A couple of times, tops.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u109	Mrs. Vulture, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u110	There are Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u111	You have two hundred ninety other than you. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u112	What's that supposed to mean? You want to forget that the Greek proposal, which Mr Vorides criticised, had been put forward. It was found and was seen as the basis for discussion by all the institutions of the European Union, and after one of the many turns that have taken place on the basis of the contradictions between them and so on, and after being red and glad to see that the Greek proposal is red, they said that we are coming back to five pages, plus 23% on the occasion of tourism to finish, plus something else. And we were told 'take it or have it it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u113	Don't accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u114	I mean, Saturday we didn't take her...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u115	And why do you ask the people? You don't have to take her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u116	...we did not accept it - you know it very well - and instead of continuing under your encouragement a negotiation without substance, without reason of deterioration and impoverishment for the country, we are coming back and putting the House that the people themselves should give their own seal to the negotiation that will continue. Why are you so afraid of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u117	Spread panic!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u118	Why are you so afraid of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u119	Let's leave or not ask. What negotiation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u120	Okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u121	The rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Ilias Cassidyris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u122	I will start from the previous, café type, conflicts and vocalities between SYRIZA and New Democracy. What I have to say is that SYRIZA is very lucky, because even though he's been really mocking the world with this so-called negotiation theater, he's happy to succeed the largest noodles of the Memorandum and Merkel, so he won't have any political damage. Because the only real, national, opposition power that exists in Greece, namely the Golden Dawn, you jointly made sure that we were locked in prisons, that you have us under house arrest. Nevertheless, we are once again the only force that resists this miserable anti-Greek policy, which continues to be followed today. Because the major issue that needs to be raised today is that SYRIZA invites the Greek people to say "no" to the actual extortion policies of loan sharks, but does not give him the opportunity to say "no" to the new memorandum that SYRIZA promotes and begs loan sharks to accept. The fixed position of the People's Association of Golden Dawn is the holding of referendums on all major national and social issues. We say "yes" in the referendums and denounce the tactics of the current coup d'état, to have imposed horrendous anti-national legislation within a few months, legislation against Greece, on illegal immigration, on the Islamization of the country, without consulting the Greek people. Therefore, you are hypocrites and we denounce you in your actions. We say, "yes" in a referendum but the proposal of the Golden Dawn for a referendum is very specific and must, through this referendum, have the opportunity for the Greek people to say "no" to the loan sharks, "no" to the International Monetary Fund and to the European bankers who have subordinated our country, but at the same time, it must say "no" to the neolimonal policy followed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, in the Memorandum of Understanding, to the 8 billion euros that it gives with robbery taxes, while maintaining HISIA. Tsipras went out as Prime Minister, mostly because he told the citizens "vote me and you won't pay HISBIA". And now he tells them "pays, sucklers", not only EVH, not only increases in VAT, but also dozens of other robbery taxes, which do not lead the Greek state anywhere. On the contrary, all they manage to do in the end with this proposal is to make the public even more hydro-headed and destroy any possibility of productive reconstruction in the country. As far as the question raised in the referendum, which, during the Golden Dawn, is a question, we say "no" in the memorandum, "no" in the extortion of international loan sharks, "no" in the assignment of our national sovereignty and "no" in the precariousness of our national wealth. We say, at the same time, 'no' to the triumph that has been evolving, within and outside Greece for months, in this triumph, which has led to a new Memorandum that you are avoiding in detail. We say 'no' in your bids to the international tug-up for a new burdensome memorandum. So do not use the popular verdict to cover your absolute negotiating failure at every level. On January 25, the Greek people gave a clear and clear popular mandate to reject the Memorandum of Submission. Today, the forthcoming referendum on the substance conceals your inability, your inability to observe this popular mandate you have received. And in order to have a referendum, he must ask the Greeks two basic things and he must give them the opportunity to say 'no'. So denounce the memorandum and delete the country's illegal debt. These must be the questions of a referendum, which, in fact, over time - there are no magic recipes for national independence - with many sacrifices from Greek citizens, will lead Greece to a genuinely independent policy in favour of public interest, for our country and the people. So two must be the questions raised. To make a complaint to the memorandum? Delete the illegal debt by unilateral actions? And there the Greek people have the opportunity to bronze a large "no" to the international loan sharks that have scattered our country. In the government's programme statements, where we were placed, we had detailed forecasts of what was to evolve over a few months. And we had just said, since then, that Varoufakis had just started the 'wows' and this show you did about the channels - and indeed about the channels in the midday zone, the gossip, which ladies and girls see - there, so we said that with this funny communication tactic, there is no way that the country will be led to a tangible result and national independence. Instead, you would lead the loan sharks to blackmail our homeland again. And that's what we see today. As soon as you gave them everything, you have just made the 8 billion-dollar proposal, you have just accepted a new memorandum, turned it around and told you "go further measures" and brought new blackmails. In fact, what we have said for a long time is that the aim of the memorial policy and international tachography, is the economic destruction of Greece for the well-being of its national wealth. In other words, the policy of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, which is the resistance to this policy, is completely confirmed today. That is the aim of all these developments. To destroy our economy completely. That is your proposal too. Your proposal, that's exactly where it drives the economy. When you are destroying the rural world with a new overtax, when you are destroying the free professionals, which have had to be the basis for developing the economy, when all the productive structures of Greece - I repeat - are criticising your proposal, and not in the infamous, memorial proposal of the troika - and say 'institutions' or as you wish - when you are aiming to break up and dismantle Greece's productive structures, it is not, in the end, differentiated in any of the things that are imposed on us by foreign centres of power and has - I repeat - a single objective. To hit Greece, which is a rich country, with mineral wealth that does not exist in other countries in this Nealgian region of the Eastern Mediterranean, in order to turn it into an economic protectorate of foreign forces, in a debt colony where there will be no real people's will. Because directly and inextricably linked to the subject of the memorandum, it is the major national problem of illegal immigration, for which you have not dared to vote. The objective of international loan sharks - has been totally accepted by the government in this regard - is in a few years' time since today, in a decade or so, not only that the national wealth, the deposits of natural gas and oil, the deposits of precious metals, but also in this country no longer inhabit Greeks, that we should be a colony of illegal immigrants and at the same time a debt colony. It's a two-tier Greek problem. It is not only the Memorandum of Economic Submission of Greece, it is also the illegal immigrants who have flooded Greece. At the same time, Greek citizens leave the country, Greece's labour force disappears, goes abroad and in a few years there will be no new generation of Greeks because of the birth rate and we will be a minority within our country. These issues had to be put to a referendum. It is no coincidence that just a few, few days ago, you have spent here - quite rightly, your communication policy - a draft for the conversion of Greece into a paradise for illegal immigrants, at a time when the channels are talking about "negotiation" abroad, and no Greek citizen understood this crime, which is taking place at the expense of his country. You have not dared to vote on this major issue. You are holding a referendum today that has failed your communication tactics definitively. Because it is not a policy that you have followed in the so-called negotiation. It wasn't a tough deal. You did not fight for Greece, do not make the fighters in favour of Greece. Mr Stathakis, Mr Tsakalotos, who invest in BlackRock, in JP Morgan, who have a lot of money out there, what are they going to say now to those who are conspiring at ATMs? Will they go to tell them: 'Calm down, children, is there nothing wrong, we're comfortable and our money is out?', which we've even seen ministers make money abroad once you took over the country's rule? It's really the way to cover up your failed policy. So here, where you have failed to tell the people, to decide on the people and to say 'no' to the people, to say 'no' to the Memorandum of Submission and to the extortion of foreigners, but you did not give him the right, because you do not really believe in people's sovereignty. Because if you believed in popular sovereignty and popular will, we would be free to carry out parliamentary work. I myself as a Member of Parliament am in prison and have not come to vote on any of the bills that this government has passed. Once I sat down to vote in the education bill, because you brought me in this morning, they allowed me to come to Parliament because I had lifted immunity, because otherwise it couldn't be prosecuted against me, and when I came to talk to the education bill, the guardian came to me and moved two papers, two infamous public prosecutors and said: "You must leave, you must not be here." That's the Constitution you believe in! Of course, Mr Samaras has started this, it is for granted. This started in New Democracy but all the political forces of the anti-constitutional arch were enslaved with this real diversion, with this evolution at the expense of popular sovereignty. So we have said this from the day of the SYRIZA - ANEL government's programming statements - that you will be blackmailed by the loan sharks until the end of the day, until they go. We had anticipated all the developments. There, then, the only way to react is to turn to the people but toward the people for a real break with this unwilling policy, for a real break with the International Monetary Fund and the loan sharks of European bankers. And don't fool yourself, we have an excellent picture of the international economic situation, we have an excellent picture of the shock that would give rise to the 'brows' of international markets such as this, which would preserve the national interest. As you know, we have analysed this on several occasions - a step-by-step in America, Lehman Brothers in 2008 fell and this crisis was transmitted to the global economy on the same day. Imagine a crisis in the Eurozone. It would cause economic chaos. Greece may have lost ten, but the "dollars" and the loan sharks would have lost a hundred. So there was no case for the tachypical system leading our country to such a development. The Golden Dawn says "no" primarily and certainly in the irresponsible proposal of the international loan sharks, "no" to the destruction of the Greek economy, "no" to the bleeding of the country's mineral wealth, "no" to the exit of the Greeks from our country, "no" to becoming a minority in Greece. Because the Memorandum and demographic are intrinsically linked and is the greatest risk to the survival of Greece. We say "no" at the same time and in SYRIZA's Memorandum, which targetes all the productive forces of this country, targets the Greeks, who could finally produce something for Greece. Because you keep saying the same thing Samaras said, you have the same phrase today. You are talking about growth and green horses. How will it be if the country does not finally start to produce if the primary sector does not start working? But you went to Russia and said "you will help not to have an embargo on Greek products", so that we can sell any peaches to the Russians and that was not the case in the end. I shall then speak on your tactics in this matter. You target the free professionals, just as the previous government did. There are hundreds of thousands of free professionals who voted SYRIZA, not because they had some ideological relationship with you but because they had believed that there would be a serious policy in terms of tax relief and will finally be able to operate a business, a small private company in Greece, which is not going to happen if we rely at least on what you proposed to the troikas, who have certainly rejected it, because every good loan shark of yours gets you all the money and then blackmails you until the end, until you get the entire fortune. The NSRF that had shared in the previous government went to the pimps of public life, went all the money to become streets, did not go to new technologies or innovation or production. Public life pimps are still untouched by you. We've heard infinite masts. We'll get money from the Lagard list, Chipras said in an election. Mr Nikoloudis came here and said 'we do not have the technical capacity'. Some moves were made for communications with Bobola, but the amount that Bobolas returned to the public was nothing, because the same goes for him in one day, from the toll that the Greek people illegally pay him. The Minister said here that we cannot afford to get substantial sums from the Lagard list, i.e. from the stolen companies, we cannot reach offshore companies in the Cayman Islands. That was the official response I received as regards the parliamentary scrutiny that I can sometimes do, as long as I am not in prison. On the contrary, your programme, which you did not dare bring to a referendum, because it would be overwhelmingly voted against by Greek citizens too, supports a hydro-headed public, which, unfortunately, today does not work productively, recycled the old, old-fashioned client state, because you appointed in all the general secretariats, in all your positions "your own children". What was the hope you were saying? Again, children of the party tube were appointed to all positions of the public. Finally, you have completely dismantled the issue of auditing and the immediate, unilateral deletion of the country's illegal debt. They became committees, we watched them. We said at the beginning that we support such initiatives, not to remain at the level of the report of ideas but to move Greece - and that should be a question of referendum - on the unilateral deletion of its illegal debt. I will speak at the very least of my time, about what the positions of the Golden Dawn are against this memorial latitude, which has upset our country. Of course, the Memorandum must first of all be condemned and not reborn by means of the Memorandum submitted by the Prime Minister, who then represents the hero and the resistance. It must be a real political cleansing, not the crumbs you took from Bobola and played all the channels at random. Public life pimps, those who owe hundreds of millions of euros - billions of euros are owed by pimps of public life, because they themselves have the oil channels, the same ones who make the streets have the channels - they must be purged - this is the position of Golden Dawn - because the money they have, is the blood of Greek citizens. Golden Dawn is struggling for national independence, for a real geostrategic shift towards Russia and not what happened in St. Petersburg the other day, where you eventually failed to get or lift the peaches embargo, so that Greek farmers could sell some fruits and not even destroy these agricultural enterprises which were, until now, fragile. We are not, of course, discussing the Greek gas case, Greek energy, which you have not said a word about. You're talking about the pipeline that through Turkey will go to Greece. You have not said a word about the substance of declaring the Greek exclusive economic zone, which will not only safeguard and pass the message internationally that Greece is a strong and independent country but will, above all, open the gates so that the Greek people can finally collect money from their own national wealth, from the national wealth it will produce because it owns it. According to Deutsche Bank, it is about 400 billion that may arise from the exploitation of the Greek mineral wealth south of Crete, in the Ionian Sea, in the Aegean Sea, in the oil. According to Professor Lygeros, it is over 1 trillion dollars that can be spent over time, with a lot of effort, with a lot of struggle - because a struggle is needed to resurrect Greece - to enter the state funds and finally to operate our economy independently. The Golden Dawn, then, says "no" in the extortion of international loan sharks, says "no" in the assignment of our national sovereignty and at the same time says "no", in the neo-memorandum policy that SYRIZA is trying to impose, dismissing our great national laws for denouncing the memorandum and deleting the illegal debt of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. I have to say it for once. We must try and protect what is enshrined and over-legislative in this House. Members must agree that there are expressions which are not to be tolerated within Parliament. Sexual and racist expressions, expressions about 'ladies and girls' or about 'lathing immigrants', my position as President of the House, which I have already formulated, is that they should not be expressed in Parliament. It's not a unique phenomenon. I've had to address it to the Chief of Staff. I have received reactions, that this is censorship. If we do not agree that we need to safeguard the level of parliamentary speech in those areas which Parliament is also withdrawing at the level of the constitutional order, then we have a collective failure. I address it to the speaker who is in the process. However, I am addressing it as a whole in this House because it is neither a single incident nor a limited phenomenon in a parliamentary group. And if we sincerely want to defend principles and values, we must each and every one, by the example of it and by the way it is put in Parliament or by the way it intervenes, those which it claims to be protecting and those which it is obliged to safeguard, to preserve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u124	Is that self-criticism?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u125	Madam President, for one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u127	My phrase 'ladies and young ladies' was neither sexist nor badly contented nor intended to provoke anyone. As far as I am concerned, however, the term'migrants' is concerned, I respect the Greek language and I think that we on the Golden Dawn know how to speak the Greek language. As is the term 'trafficker' used for the illegal trader, the term 'immigrant' is used, not racistly. Be careful, we are not talking about the race of each man, we are not talking about his religion, we are not talking about his ethnicity. We are talking about the man who has entered the country illegally. We can tell them whatever you want. We can call them 'irregular immigrants', we can call them 'illegal immigrants', we can simply call them 'tourists' or in any other way. The problem, however, is not solved and illegal immigration is a major national problem. So not to stand up to the guys, but to the essence of the problem. I repeat that my comment was neither sexist nor racist, and I think I have adequately explained my positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u128	The rapporteur for the River Mr Spyros Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u129	I fully agree with the remarks made by the President before, because we must avoid phrases of abusive or sexist in this Chamber. But I do not remember, Madam President, anyone interrupted the President of the Independent Greeks when calling on some to be on the fours. [[Applause from the river wing]] No one has dealt with this most athletic and unacceptable phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u130	Some, in fact, were laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the last act of the Greek drama. But this drama is not being played in real terms. It is a shadow theater with false dilemmas and divisive conditions. The Greek people are not called upon to decide on a final and final proposal of the "institutions" so that they can have a clear choice in front of them. Not even the text exists. I even heard that he might have retired. It has to decide, in fact, on a feared, responsible, tactics and, therefore, dangerous elements of the government, which have now been carried out for months in a misleading and asymmetrical propaganda between the rupture and the agreement, in order to return home with a repetitive question, which she cannot answer and which she places with great irresponsibility on the backs of the Greek people, although it has been elected - and with the co-legislative law, not to forget - to keep the country in the euro and to reach the best possible agreement. Instead of consulting and exploiting the good initial will of everyone inside and abroad, she preferred the roaming of her fantasies, her obsession with the lies and in the unavoidable promises of her election. She fell into the trap that she set herself, lost valuable time in the communication wards, was arguing a tough negotiation, to finally end up in her own notorious text of forty-seven pages and 8 billion euros, the recession, poverty, in her own burdensome, painful and shameful memorandum, because the other, as you know, would be tangled in one day in the Constitution Square. It has proved to be practically possible that, in order to overhaul power, to build its own party and client state, to impose its own authoritarian governance practices, to release its own totalitarian perception, the obsolete one, the one that history threw in the basket of the useless, the historical unquestions and the contempt for the democratic world, did not hesitate to deceive and mislead the Greek people. He did not want to admit that the crisis brought the memos and not the other way around. He did not want to see - and it is not the only one - that we could no longer walk through the old methods, in the old ways, in the credit, without a national plan, without a fair sharing of sacrifices. The Prime Minister informed us a few days ago that the negotiations had just begun. Apparently, in the previous period, he was chasing a chimera. He ignored the agreement of 20 February when he accepted the extension of the current programme, namely the memorandum. He let money slip through his hands, made certain commitments and even succumbed to the ownership of reforms with an extra swing for the first time. He exhausted all the partners' initial goodwill chapter, lost friends and support. From the outset we have been among those who have not ceased to point out to all tone that a negotiation plan has never existed, that foreign and incomprehensible tactics would lead to multiple deadlocks and dangerous dilemmas. Now the government has put the last bullet in the chamber of the peculiar Greek roulette, which, either from other thoughts or despair, has been playing for so long and, unfortunately, seems to be hitting the trigger today. The threat of suicide by transferring responsibility to the citizens is the last scene of the soap opera, the last spasm. Ladies and gentlemen, the price is heavy. Obviously, the Prime Minister cares or ignores the dangers to the fate of the country and the complete destruction to which we may lead. There is no interest in the fate of the poor, the unemployed of the private sector, the winter-sized areas. It has led the economy to collapse and recession, and every day the left austerity account rises. What the prime prime minister seems to care for is political survival, the transaction with the foreign government mosaic, the protection of his syndicate state base and election clientele. It misleads the low-pensioners, who our "bad, unscrupulous criminals and ungrateful" partners incur their greedy income, when the government itself proposed tough measures forty-seven pages. We have of course all reached our conclusions on the intransigence of lenders, but this does not acquit the government, it does not eliminate its political inability. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the country's present image? An economy in paralysis, the unemployment in heights, the deposits made wings, the concern, the frustration and the fear of collapse, and the gang of drachma lifting a head, with the world running a tail to ATMs, ovens and supermarkets. That's how we made the country. And what was the result of the five months that passed unrealized? The Government itself drowned in its own lies and delusion, the ones that disfellowshipped around it, to the extent that the desperate citizens would seem to want no longer a fictitious tribulation of the memorandum but a certain agreement, even painful, even at a heavy cost, which would save the pretexts, which would keep the country alive and upright in the great European family. Of course, the last echo of the 'dukes' and 'guns' had disappeared completely. We danced every day for Zaloggo's dance! Unfortunately, the isolation and incomprehensibility of the country within the European partners' family is unprecedented. The country pays and will pay dearly the price of the arrogance, the lack of any strategy and the government's communication indifference. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still living in a fantastic world, the one we would like to see and not the one in front of us. And the one in front of us tells us clearly, clearly, that we cannot come back to the lost paradise and the fencing of false reality. The world that we have before us requires a common national effort requires sacrifices but with a view to putting a new start on the ground. Instead of these self-evident things, which all the political forces followed in other states, without, of course, neglecting their ideological and political differences, in order to get out of the crisis, we have been striving here for manoeuvre to self-destruct and suicidal tendencies, moving to the cliff of fatal and awkward. The government has a huge responsibility for this final impulse towards the cliff and decline, in co-operation with the nationalists, with the infamous'sprayed' ones. We should not, however, allow her to lead the country, this first time on the left, to dismantle, on the pretext of appealing to the democratic verdict of the people, and, in fact, to press the trigger for his suicide. It attempts to alienate it from the European family in which it matured, and with its own help it managed to shape, even in difficulties, a course in the modern world, a radical change in the face of the country of the previous decades, to lead to better days in the advanced and modern countries of Europe. This approach of the country, which has made it stronger than the past, which has made it out of the lasting misery and isolation, is at risk today by the unwise political decision of the Government to referendum in summary procedures, with little time to make substantial dialogue and for the people to understand the real risk of a politically dangerous and biased debate. There is an absolute historical responsibility of the left-wing government, unfortunately dived up to the neck in populist deprivations and manic self-destructs, but heroic and mourning. And all this because? Perhaps, I didn't want to believe it, maybe to save their own political survival. Ladies and gentlemen, Potami, from the first moment on, has had the alarm bell, the deadlock. He was not tired of repeating to all the tons that even a bad agreement was preferable to the non-agreement when the government led things. Why, today, the real question of the referendum, is not what the government is misleadingly asking but what is true, namely 'Euro and Europe, or drachma and banana'. The question for the Greek people is not whether it will remain in its financial difficulties but whether it will eventually lose 50% of its income. The question is whether he wants to remain in Europe's safe port, at home or whether he wants to wander to unknown places or try "alternative" solutions, which are unthinkably offered without ever being specified. The question for Greek women and Greek citizens is whether they want - even with difficulties - to move forward or 50 years back in economic neolithic times. That is the real question of the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the government's crimes is that its attitude and course of negotiation has been contributed to war conditions with our friends and partners, which have made mistakes - and they have made much - and, however hard a stand - and have held a tough stand and with intransigence in many respects and at many times - they have not ceased to be the only partners who have been called upon to solve the problems, to build the future of our own and of Europe. It is a criminal mistake for the government to join forces within our country with the most Eurosceptic and destructive nationalist forces. I tell you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. It's a shame! We raise the glove of this immoral political and destructive challenge. Our position is clear. The country was neither in need of a referendum. The country needs national understanding. But if the House votes for a referendum, we will fight for our euro stay, for Europe, for our home, for our children, for the future, to rebuild Greece in Europe. We call on all the country's democratic, progressive, European and European forces to join in a great fight that will end the country's irrational catastrophe, to remain within the euro and within Europe, and not to allow the country to be slashed into bankruptcy, poverty, in a state - despite a troubled corner of the planet. Prime Minister, you said the bell would ring. The bell rings and rings for us. For all of us, the bell is ringing, but it's ringing for you. Will you be the fatal Prime Minister of the country's destruction, poverty and isolation? I do not want to think about it, but in any case you do not have the right to 'play the dice' the future of the country. Play yours. We won't follow you. And never forget, how thin the line that divides the "First-Left" with the nightmare "Never Left" that I don't even want in my worst nightmares to think about. The Greek people are mature and will refuse to play the Russian roulette that you have to play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr Lykoudis, because you are also Vice-President of the House, I hope that the sensitivity you have shown at the start of your speech in relation to sexist expressions, show it, and when we discuss which Members are taking such expressions either within Parliament or in the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u133	And my respect in time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u134	No matter what, no matter what.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u135	They are already mysterious in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u136	The complaints elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u137	And a little bite...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u138	Stepma is called the rapporteur for the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos. And since I have heard Mrs Kanellis intervene, I should like to inform her that there has been a supplementary document from the Group of the European People's Party, adding it as the last speaker on the list given by the JRC. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u139	The Communist Party of Greece calls on the workers, the unemployed, the self-employed, the popular layers of the city and the countryside to close their ears on the sirens of the system, who are today trying to terrorize them, to deceive them and, in essence, to enclose them between Scylla, that is to say, the proposal - carmilla of the European Union, the European Central Bank and the IMF, and Harybd, that is to say, the proposal - the glutton of the SYRIZA - ANEL conflict. They are trying to encapture them in the context of capitalist barbarism, within the twilight alliance of the European Union. That is why we call on them to say 'no' to the proposal of the institutions, the troika, that is, the European Union, the European Central Bank and the IMF, and to the government proposal, which brings broadly the signature of Mr Tsipras. And we call on them to say 'yes' to the release from the European Union, the abolition of the memoranda and all the implementing laws, that is to say, the proposal from the Communist Party of Greece, on the content of the referendum. We urge them with determination and optimism to join the JRC in organising their struggles all over the world without illusions and hopes, in order to counter the worst measures which are coming but above all, so that they can recover the enormous losses they have had and also open the way to the hopeful prospect, to the only realistic way out for the benefit of our people. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that coexistence, the whole of the previous period, has exploited and proceeded with the squeezing of people's needs and popular discontent. He went on to distort the already mature and vital demands of the working folk movement for relief, to restore huge losses, to meet needs. It has made friendly efforts to castrate, manipulate the radicalisation of wider folk layers and to entangle them into the twilight alliance of the European Union, within the spears of the system, by cultivating the illusions that people's problems can be solved in a magical way. And of course, today she is escalating this attack, moving on to a raw blackmail, to choose how she will accept the even greater sacrifice of the people's needs, the altar of the armoring of capitalist profitability and competitiveness, that is to say, the altar of the efforts of the monopolistic groups. Because this is essentially the aim of either the other proposal for the agreement. It calls on the people, in other words, to be co-responsible for a policy which is even worsening their position, because that is what is proposed on the part of the government. At this very point led to the government negotiating these five months, of course, a negotiation within the walls, a negotiation that the government has accepted, accepted and will accept. It does not question the anti-grassroots, the class strategies of the European Union. It is a negotiation that started on substance through the decision of 20 February, which was the continuation of loan contracts and memoranda. And here throughout the five months, you have shown consistency unprecedented and decisive - as is the previous government, the rule of New Democracy and PASOK - in serving the state debt. You proceeded to a payment stop in terms of people's needs to pay the creditors. You proceeded to internal borrowing, not to pay a bond or a instalment or interest, which ends. From this point of view, it is clear that in this negotiation your anxiety and your common concern were evident. How, on the one hand, and debt, on the other, will be served, and on the other hand, how to reach an agreement that ensures the preservation of monopolistic groups, the salvation of capitalist Greece. Of course, it was a negotiation that was not in vain but was part of a more general negotiation between the imperialist centres, in the context of the wider contradictions and competition, of who will benefit from this crisis and its manifestation, of a negotiation conducted under the risks of the uncertain recovery of the European Union economy and, in particular, of the Eurozone and the risk of returning to a crisis, under the struggling effort of the institutions of the European Union to shield the Eurozone. You are doing a bourgeoisie all this time as a government, the report of the five Presidents of the European Union on the completion of economic and monetary union, where it sets up even tighter supervisory mechanisms, even tighter mechanisms for unification of the budget, financial and monetary and which the Financial Council creates, for example, this proposal. Is it accidental that the proposal for a financial council is also included in the proposal that you have made as a government? In fact, you added the "automatic cutter". In other words, where the revenue forecasts fall short, the expenditure will automatically be cut. And 'cost' means expenditure on wages, pensions, social benefits. In other words, you added the "automatic cut". From this point of view, through this proposal and the report of the five Presidents, a'solid heel' is formed, in which any remaining rights will be trampled over for the working class and the people in the whole of the European Union and not just. From this point of view, we believe that Mr Voutsi' s lionisations are 'we will not accept an austerity in the dilemma and will not accept penal surveillance on the part of the European Union', since you accept the report of the five Presidents, which lays down even tighter supervision regulations in the biennial area, for all the Member States of the European Union of the Eurozone, and in particular for the overcompensated states, with high budgetary deficits, such as the Greek state. Ladies and gentlemen, it appears from the latest developments that the formation of two blocks of power of the new bipolarization is even clearer. On the one hand it is the pro-government force block, which says 'yes' to the European Union. The European Union is our common home but we will change this European Union and the European Union will return to its traditions of humanism, of solidarity, of social justice. Really, when was that? When was the European Union like this? When he was dissipating Yugoslavia and bombing the people in the wider region? When did the European Union have these features? With the Maastricht Treaty or even before? The EEC and the European Union initially were precisely the mechanism which took advantage of capital by the multinationals of the European Union to strengthen their position in competition, in a competitive environment, in order to obtain new markets, in order to shield their profitability. In other words, the European Union has always been the prisoner of the people. On the other hand, it is the blocking of these forces - the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Potami - of all sacrifices of residence in the European Union. And, of course, masks like the Golden Dawn mask are falling at critical moments, which, as the President himself, has come out and said this is no time to break. Today the rupture is a crime. You actually flew the mask of the so-called antisystemic party. You're more systemic than systemic! And even the Golden Dawn is nothing but the cheeky dogs! They are the noodles of the system, the murderous hand of the system, which is why it is a criminal organization as a Nazi. The conclusion to all these developments, through these tough negotiations, which the government made in the past five months, is nothing more than the signature put forward by the Prime Minister in the new proposal - a memorandum that he submitted to the institutions. What does this new proposal provide for - a memorandum? It provides for an increase in VAT revenue. Who really pays VAT? And the unemployed and the low-pensionist and the wager and the poor farmer and the bankrupt professional closing his shop, his craftsman. In fact, you are doing so in such a way as to impose precisely these popular strata through the change in VAT rates. For example, go to the high rate of food processed, tickets from public transport. Keep the ENVY for both 2015 and 2016 and we see from there, with exactly the same revenue, EUR 2.65 billion. You arrive at the point of canceling laws and provisions which you voted on twenty days ago, such as the provision on the taxation of farmers. In your proposal you are even canceling this provision. You move on to reversals in insurance through pension reductions, increase in contributions or integration of insurance funds, and the logic of the viability of the insurance funds, which will result from the new proportional study, which will lead to even more painful reinsurance measures. You accept the privatizations and, of course, as a leaf of your so-called social justice, they are also the proposals that you make that the economic oligarchy will pay. Really, who are these? The extraordinary contribution to company profits? Whisper flies! They pay 5.8%, on the basis of the budget implemented, in the total tax revenues, all legal persons and you also make them an extraordinary contribution when the rest of the population pays it. And much more so, that the big business groups are preparing to mitigate the new package of 35 billion for which you are negotiating, to literally milk the credit relaxation that the European Central Bank is making. All this, of course, is not fragmentary measures. These are complementary anti-grassroots measures, because you have left the legal arsenal of the memorandum completely intact. Of course, the memoranda, the executive laws, were burdening the burdens of financial management on the people, but above all, they had formed such a mechanism for the reproduction of cheap and unstructured labour rights. That is why, Minister, it is a challenge to say that you are interested in all those who have no voice, in all those who live on the dark side of the moon, when you negotiate on behalf of the capital, when you are the government of capital, as are the previous civil governments. And from this point of view, it is a challenge to resort to lionisms against the people. That's who you're blackmailing. And what are you telling him? "Or you will accept our proposal for an agreement or accept the proposal of our institutional partners." After all, as your parliamentary representative said, 'no' in the referendum means 'yes' to the government proposal. So you're either gonna accept the carnival or the glutton. Conclusion. Negotiation within the European Union and under conditions of capital domination, has no effect in favour of the people. On the contrary, it forms frameworks even more hostile to its own people's needs. The European Union is not going to change. It will hardly become more reactionary. And with any result of this negotiation with the partners, whether you go to an agreement or get into an accident, the account will still be paid by the people and you know it very well. That is why not only you and the rest of the Euromoney parties but also the staff of the system, from analysts, professors, graphics, have been put into a climate of terrorisation of the people, making use of an unprecedented anti-communism to confuse the only realistic option: the choice of the real rupture, which is uprooted as the only hope towards the people, the real rupture with the European Union and capital. Because, of course, this is the proposal that answers today and tomorrow of the people. Because this is also the way out for the benefit of the people. Because a way out for the benefit of the people means conflict and disobedience to the true enemies, capital, the European Union, their power. It means preventing the attack from escalating and trying to relieve the current conditions and restoring the losses. But above all, first and foremost, it means a fight with determination, so that we can open up the avenues of the future, build a society where the organization of the economy and production is done on the basis of the fulfilment of popular needs and not capitalist profitability, through the socialisation of the means of production. The only way to eliminate unemployment will unemployment be to eliminate the disparities in social, regional and intra-EU disparities at the level of the economy, only in this way will we have a definitive discharge from the capitalist crises, with the release from the European Union and the other wolves of the imperialists, with the unilateral cancellation of the debt. That requires that the power changes its hands. With the JRC in the frontline, the people and the working class in the power itself. We as a JRC - and I end with this - will take advantage of the referendum on a wide-ranging information for the people to turn its indignation into questioning the European Union, against capital and capitalist barbarism, to become not the competitor but the protagonist of developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr. Friend, requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Madam President. I want to make a clarification. I heard Mr Karathanasopoulos mentioned the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, who said that the referendum proposed by SYRIZA means 'yes' to proposals that have been presented during the government's negotiation. That was not the case. The referendum, as we all know, has a question. ‘Yes’ or ‘no’ to creditors' graduation. And obviously the result, if it is a massive and bronze 'no', through the mass involvement of the citizens, zeros the shortcut of the negotiation and gives the opportunity for an even stronger negotiating position of the Greek Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u143	That is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Friend. And I think it is always necessary not to confuse what is the subject of both the debate and the referendum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u145	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u146	The 'no' means 'no' to the ultimatum and the proposal made by the government to Parliament and to the Greek people is 'no' to the ultimatum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u147	There's a specific statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Karathanasopoulos is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u149	I will simply refer Mr. Friends to the first statements he made following the announcement of the referendum on the Government's side to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u150	Please, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much. You, Mr. Karathanasopou, have referred. Apparently, you've made some misunderstanding. I would like to clarify that. There's no question of questioning what everyone said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u153	I have referred to the statements. I didn't do anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u154	It's been recorded. It is quite clear in the Minutes that there is no misunderstanding and that the 'no' the more brooder it is, the more it unites and mobilizes the people we address. The rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, thank you very much. We are here today, perhaps at the most important time of post-political democracy in Greece. We should all invest, if you like, in temper and sobriety. Many of us - although few of our governance with the lenders are present in the House - need to stop eating the lotus of politics and start eating from the very good Greek cuisine, the Greek cuisine, which in the last five years has been extinguished from the Greek table. In the last five years, the laws have been applied under pressure the suffocating and extortion of the disbursement of any dose "to give you food", "I will not give you, you will not eat", "I will give you, your children will take care", "I will not give you any more, you will not be able to put gasoline in your car to go anywhere." These dilemmas should not be forgotten and a bronze 'no' must be said by all Greeks in this brutal catastrophe of democracy in this country, which gave birth to the philosophy and democracy which it has translated into the lengths and backs of the world. Shall we now discuss Thucydides, Aristotle, Plato, for the ancient tragedies? We've mutated the spirit. This spirit has been attempted by the technocrats, the unelected bearers of Europe's bankers, to remove it from the Greek people. They made us guilty, poored our country, flaked the country and made us a failed country. Finally, what do we want in Greece, in this place where it has been bleededed? For the past two and a half thousand years, Xerxes and thousands of enemies have been bleeding. Everybody wants something from us. What have we done? What do we want? We've always had leaders. We have always said 'no'. Whether we were five, ten, three hundred, five hundred, we always said 'no'. What were we talking about 'no'? Remember what we said 'no'? We said permanently 'no' to the foreign heir of the country, the borders, the insulting of the sanctuaries and loyal ones that this country has, the language, the history. They were shaking us. We were burned with books. They burned Alexandria. They dissolved the universe. Greece exists and will continue to exist. Greece has never been governed. Until the memorials, Greece had a government. They've introduced new terms. 'Governance', Mr Papandreou, 'governance', Mr Venizelos. What does it mean to rule? Rule in just Greek means that I don't rule, I manage, because I'm doing something else, I'm not dominating the work I do, I manage. Are we managers in our homeland? So, to our kids, what do we say? That I'm managing my house? Am I not the owner of my home? I'm managing my homeland and your future, but I'm not a owner, to decide with my child about your future, but will the institution decide? Is an institution coming? Where did they tell us five days ago in the infamous text of absolute insult to any Prime Minister - and happened to Alexis Tsipras - to sign and turn it back? It's absolute humiliation and humiliation. Foreigners write it down. I don't like talking in English, but they wrote it in all the serious networks. It was an effort to complete humiliation. Who agreed to these measures? Who agreed to the budget we're running now? Why is this government being blamed? About what he does or about what he doesn't do? Did we write the 2015 budget? Have we ever asked about the 2015 budget? I was not a Member of Parliament, but they were the MPs of the then collapsation, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, and I look into them in the eyes. Has anyone ever asked them about what they would decide and signed in a 2015 budget for execution - in the 'good sense'? Oh, no! They decided the directors and they came to execute without reading! We have heard about 'Latvian sovereignty' and'more Europe'. What does'more Europe' mean, which we have been listening to for so many years? Is it not synonymous with a mere mental coexistence that'more Europe' means 'less Greece'? Is that what we want? Don't we see there's less Greece? There is no Greece! Our institutions have tabled the proposal. And I do not want to go back to the past on'study','reading' and 'don't read' and 'I didn't have time for it. The proposals of the institutions of 25 June are all here. I shall put them before you, if I comment a little later on on the preliminary plan on debt sustainability, which is a photo - it is paranoid, I will be allowed to do so - as will the reform measures. They report VAT 23%, 100% of next year's tax advance, focus taxes, hotels, that is, to destroy our steam engine, tourism. What for? So, what do they want exactly? I've said this many times since this House Step. They do not want rich, healthy Greeks or rich, healthy Greek economy. Because, if they wanted it, they would not proceed with these measures. You'll tell me why they're moving on to the measures that make us poorer, so how will they get their loan back? But they're not going to get their loan! We have seen every government's analyses that they are currently collecting interest and never expect to collect the capital, except the International Monetary Fund. What can I say about farmers? Can I tell you about shipping? Why does Shoeble mess with Greek shipping? Do you think this is the 'innocent' that we hear in the cafeterias and the Greek media? Do you know last year, in the last six months, how many German ships of interest, listed companies in Germany, have purchased Greek shipowners? One hundred fifty ships. Do you know where the German hurts? That his exports are carried by Greek ships. And that's not what he likes. The patriotic Greek shipowners bought him ships, and he now wants to press to increase his tax to get the shipowners out. That's the truth. And where did we get it? We must have today when we talk about two and a half million working people feeding - in the good sense - seven million of our fellow people! That's the logic that has to be for the country to go, right? Well, not at all. It's not her. We must say 'no'! It cannot be two and a half million for our seven million people to live. We were forced by the strategy to eat our flesh. And we started to like it. That's political cannibalism. We're eating our flesh. Why would anyone vote 'yes'? I want a reasonable person to tell me if it is possible for a business to come to its political district and say to him "Thank you very much for voting for me VAT 23% on the focus and the hotel and 100% tax advance for the next year, which I do not have. And I as a hotel owner, to manage in the middle of the season the quadruple of my expenses from VAT plus 100% advance payment of the next tax, what am I supposed to do? Let me fire my staff." So we're talking about redundancies. I'll talk to you like I'll see you at home. If your home says "pay 100% of the next year's tax, and at the same time I take you the electricity and water to 23%" - that's what we do to tourism right now - what the family will do? He's leaving the house. What if she's unemployed? Well, we say 'no'. I also heard this insane this morning: 'The referendum is illegal, because it has a predetermined, specified result. Who will vote 'yes' to tough measures?' Do you understand that, colleagues? We are told that everyone will vote 'no' because it makes sense. So what do we say? Are we saying to the people "did he vote unreasonable"? Are we telling the people, at the house we're going to return to the night, to our wife, to our father, to our child, "I voted today, so that I could break you down on my own" and look him in the eye? We have also seen European friends, in good cooperation with the Greek media and many useful - less intelligent, as far as they need to - technically link the euro - not Greece's euro - with fiscal adaptation, strict memoirs and austerity. Look out! In other words, if we do not all have this, which destroys the economy and brings down recession and unemployment throughout Europe - increased to 12% in the medium term, the average debt to GDP in Europe to 92%, targeting 60% by Maastricht and the average deficit to 3%, an average of 3% throughout the Eurozone - 'if you do not do all of this, you do not have the euro'. Is it possible for them to tell you themselves "I'm tearing you apart to have euros"? And yet, they tell you, and they look you in the eye. Why? Because there's huge brain wash. For me, national understanding means that opposition must also say a bronze 'no'. The Greeks have taught dignity, we have taught through time that we are not afraid of anyone. Because we have learned to work hard but also to study hard - so we have this history and culture all over the world - we should at some point also read the history of the memorials. The first piece of paper I would like, Madam President, to take into account - and I will give it to the Minutes - is a classified report by Barclays Capital - it is time to slowly take it out, slowly and slowly, that says how much billions were involved in the European and global banks before entering the memoranda. There is a misunderstanding about 70 billion in German and French banks. So the figure is 218 billion worldwide, the Eurozone together with Greece is 82% of the 218 billion. Eurozone had 164 and Greece 77, at 82%. We are talking about having saved themselves with us, with a tool and with a vehicle to transfer the bonds of Greek law to European taxpayers, with the memoranda that we are told today to continue voting 'yes', over EUR 192 billion - I am tabling them in the Minutes - and this money is not in banks. I would like to explain to you what we mean. They are banks, pension funds, insurance companies, funds, they are a great crowd of people and natural persons, but mainly legal persons, who invested in Greek bonds. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where did the money go as loans through the memoirs? We said that we saved 192 billion Greek bonds, 149.2 billion - I testify - went to debt service, that is, we saved their banks. Mr. Ignatiu's book is clear. I read it all in six hours. There were four proposals by Mr Akerman with Mr Weidman's veto, the current President of the Bundesbank, who is vetoing today. He vetoed and then Mr. Ackerman gave us 25 billion in January, so that we would not enter a memorandum and there would be no IMF in Europe. Read the books. Since the 252 billion, then, 149 billion entered debt service, 37 billion entered the banks’ recapitalisation and 34 billion entered the PSI’s ‘sweets’. The total is 221 billion out of the 253 billion borrowed, 88% went to debt, old and especially new debt. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What we borrowed from the 'yes' memos that my colleagues want - that is 'yes' - is EUR 192 billion in banks worldwide. The 'yes' is 88% of our loans to go to banks and debt. I now go with a small parentheses, where the money goes, which says with the proposal that the 'conclusion' was tabled on the 25th day of the month. He's talking to us about 15 billion euros in four instalments. All the money from 15.3 billion in addition to 1 billion - it has the table back, I will give you the Greek text because there is a clearer table - that is, the 14.3 billion that the lenders are telling us today, going to debt service. They write it themselves, I don't say that. Whose debt? I can't say everything. Someone's gonna have to read them a little. That's it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, one of the paper you're all looking for on debt sustainability and where the money goes, I'm filing it in the House. I am tabling the text on the sustainability of the debt with my notes above - it does not matter, it will make reading easier - with three scenarios. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In practice, I will tell you that with the best scenario of lenders, the debt will go to GDP in 2022 to 124% instead of 110%, which was the target of 2012. It will be remembered by those who were here at that meeting. 2020 instead of 124%, in the best scenario, goes to 137%. Excellent! That's a very viable debt! When we shouted "go to restructure and tire it out, to have room for living in Greece", we were told "no" - we had discussed it in 2012 - "we will tire you". This is the analysis given by lenders. We do not accept this analysis because they tell us that debt is not sustainable but they do not tell us what to do. What are we gonna do with it? Are we going to look into it? Oh, no. At the same time, the numbers are relentless. Previous report of the International Monetary Fund, the Ministry of Finance and the Eurobank Research: In the period 2010 to 2014, the GDP loss is 58.4 billion and the materiality footprint across the economy is 68.5 billion. This is where the 'yes' must go and where the 'no' must go. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Watch me for a bit. I told you before that we ‘we’ve wasted’ the banks. You'll tell me. Well, aren't the banks today? The table I will table shows where the demands of the banks of Europe are today. It starts from above and it's low. The 'high' is where the 200 billion I said before was. The "low" is the unloading. It's all gone. We turned them on us, borrowed to put them back together and pay them back. Here is what the European banks are holding today and I have the full breakdown by bank in Europe, which exceeds 60 billion. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today we are talking about banks have this report in Greece. Remind me by closing two things. Firstly, in July 2014's fifth review, on the four hundred pages there is also a very 'pretentious' page, which says that for 2015-2016, these have been seen by the previous government and it does not say why no one has read, but come on, that some have read! - the unambiguous measures, unidentified measures, which the next government has to take, the same if it were government, it's 5,766 billion. These are the new undetermined measures. For 2015, 2,022 billion and 3,744 for 2016 plus an increase in contributions, etc., reaches 11 billion to 14 billion. I'm filing them with our own notes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That was what previous colleagues have known since June 2014. I do not know, however, whether they read them at the time or waited for them to read and study only the reports and non-documents received from the offices, which were clearly not accurate. I will also submit a paper that hurts me, because for five years I have been struggling with it and found it. It is the preventive line that everyone invokes in all the Memorandums. What were they telling us? To return, we were told by Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos, technically back at 10.9 billion, to have them a pillow, to take a preventive line, which was much better than that, you bring without money. This is the paper of the European Support Mechanism, which on page 4, in paragraph (a) of Article 4, says that the preventive line has a prerequisite for a memorandum. We were going to get the loans already borrowed back so they could borrow them back. How? It says in paragraph 4(b): with a new loan. And in 5a it says "enhanced surveilance", in noble Greek, "increased surveillance". This is the "outside the memorandum" that no one had seen. No longer can anyone say he's not seen it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who decides on bankruptcy? We've heard of a credit event. It just happened to be my job, but it's time to tell truths, because everything's gonna be recorded now. The moments are critical. IMF: ‘Late debt. It is not bankruptcy.’ Why? Who decides on bankruptcy? The international derivatives organisation? But I want you all to see who decides on the bankruptcy of a country. Let us not say 'organization'. Conspiracy, Mr. Kammenos! Who decides whether a country has a credit event? I'm reading you the names of the organization's government board. Bank of America, Barclays Bank, BNP Paris, Citibank, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley. These are the voting dealers, the main vote, the ones who vote. And it's not a dealer factor. It doesn't matter. They're investment firms. But the fifth is Elliott Management. I'll testify and write it down, I don't have my pen together. Elliott Management is the one who had the tireless, Mr. Singer. Mr. Singer, who was chasing us, who got arrested on Papademos and came back this year to reroute, is number five who decides who won't go bankrupt. Not on it. These are the lenders! I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Here is the joy of the euro, we have just said a referendum. The downhill is obvious. It doesn't matter and you don't have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u156	Those who say that are sprayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u157	No, not the stock exchanges, I get it all from the Bloomberg. Do you want me to tell you the exposure to CDS? I entered the 'Bloomberg'. I don't talk like that. I have the report on the 22nd. How many risk premiums does each country have? Greece, you would say, is ready to go bankrupt. Where's Greece? It's at the bottom, with 588 million people invested in risk premiums alone. Which country is the first on risk premiums, in other words at high risk, or, if you want, a bankruptcy spiral? Italy 17.7 billion and Germany 2,184,000,000. That's how people lock up. These are the markets. Greece? Lately. Wouldn't they be tangled to have insurance premiums? I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u158	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u159	Mrs. Libertyraki, I would be happy to comment on any questions you have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u160	I don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u161	Mr Kammene, do not give in to the commentary, because we need to move on to the next speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u162	You are absolutely right, Madam President. The democratic course of this country is unnegotiable. The euro is irreversible. We say so, Draghy says so, but the markets say so too. It's what the good guys say, so do the bad guys. We're with the good guys. A referendum by a free people, a free parliament, a free government, can only benefit from the absolute majority of this Parliament. It is an absolute expression of democracy. We say 'yes' to Greek proposals, we say 'no' to imported proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I would like us to be very careful from now on, to be cool, not to make our fellow citizens more nervous. This country, we all love it very much. I don't question the love for anyone's homeland. I would like to say, therefore, that the television spiral, let foreigners do so, and let us not do so, because we are documented by history. And the dilemma was never the euro. The euro dilemma or memorandum, euros or referendum, within or outside, shall be put by Greece's outside and wicked people to care. The Greeks want the euro. We've bleeded for it. It's ours. Europe is a Greek word. Don't go to mythology now. In Greece, however, we are here for the future of Greece and our children within the euro and we say 'no' to foreign law and 'no' to the memorandum that ruined us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u164	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Voutsi, I'll give you the floor right away. Just give me a second. A document from the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Gregorakos, has come to the Bureau, which says: 'Mrs. President, I would like to delete from the list of speakers of the PASOK Parliamentary Group the MP, Mr. Arcadias Odysseysas Konstantinopoulos'. There is also a document from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, adding Mr Constantine Tasoula to the list of speakers. The floor has been asked by the Minister for Internal and Administrative Reconstruction. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u166	Madam President, I would also like to translate the final text on debt, which was tabled by the partners - lenders for the so-called'reforms' in any case. The original text is English, but it has not yet been translated. But it will also be translated in time. These are the two texts which refer to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u167	Have these signed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Voutsi, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u169	They are the official texts given to the Greek delegation. It's not with signatures. It is one of the three institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Voutsi, thank you. The documents submitted by the Minister must be reproduced and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u172	I understand from your statement that it is the English text which has been delivered to the Greek Government and that is why the government is making it known. The translation is what was done from a Greek point of view in this very short time in order to have an English translation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Kammenos, I've seen you and I'll give you the floor. Allow me only to clarify a few things. Because I am listening to various interferences by Members who have also been ministers of government who have introduced bills with texts that the House was invited to ratify in writing and also governments with ministers who have voted for bills that they have not read, I am glad that Members and citizens are now claiming to know and read the texts, have the time to do so blackmail and are not called upon to do so in ten hours under the threat of opening up the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Monday, and it must have been voted unreasonable arrangements which are not in the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u175	By night we'll be able to read them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u176	I am therefore pleased that some people and others are shifting towards democratic perceptions, that it is not a text that the Members of Parliament have no knowledge of, and for which the Greek people have not commanded. And I am very pleased, Minister, that, with the proposal of the Ministerial Council, we are also giving the Greek people the opportunity and comfort to be placed on these shameful texts which - and you will allow me to say so - cannot come from partners. He is a partner, nor does he enter the position of a lender, who asks, like the "Venice Trader" the lender - a loan shark, a piece of his flesh.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u177	Come down and speak underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u178	Get down and say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u179	Come underneath and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u180	I have also given you a document that you cannot speak as President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u181	Mrs. Papariga and Mr. Mitsotakis, in common, are calling for me to come down and say it. I'll go down to the Step and say it. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u182	Madam President, because I forgot about it, I would like to put forward the two texts which I said I was going to table, but I took them with me. It is the English text with the reforms demanded by lenders and in Greek, an analysis of the sustainability of debt, to make it easier for people too. I filed the English text, but I have the Greek one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u183	They're coming to pick it up, Mr. Kammenos, from the agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u185	The rapporteur for the PASOK, Mr Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u186	You are constantly violating the Rules of Procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the hope to leave comes. I guess the hope of you leaving is here. We are at the stage of your last actions. And this referendum must not be held. That is why we, with our word, are fighting today in the House and outside the House, so that this referendum does not happen. I have the honour to recommend the positions of a party whose positions, attitudes and attitudes over the years of the dramatic crisis have been on the other side of your behaviour, your attitude, your positions. We have taken on behalf of the entire political system all the responsibilities that led to bankruptcy. You're disclaiming your responsibilities. You have requested a mandate from the Greek people and you do not carry out his mandate. You do not assume your responsibilities, but you move them from your backs, after 25 January, to the people's backs through this disgraceful referendum proposal. On the substance, the country no longer has a government, it has no Prime Minister. Typically no prime minister, because he had practically no Prime Minister since January 25th, when he refused to continue his country's course, he refused opportunities that had been labored and sacrificed on the table, there were for the citizens, there were for Greece. Since last night you left the battle and started the distractions. You're hiding behind the civilians. You want to hide behind the citizens! You're taking the downhill, in fact. We are at the beginning of political developments, however much you wish and applaud the motions for referendums. The Prime Minister, in order to keep his party united and himself standing - and you with him - divides the Greek people and threatens the country with further problems, with further misery. So we say right from the outset - and we said it last night - 'yes' in the European Union, 'yes' in the euro, 'no' in the SYRIZA - ANEL government. This referendum - I repeat, and I will say it by the end of my speech - must not be done. Moreover, in order to enter into legal and constitutional questions, there is no clear question under Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure and Rule 44(2) of the Constitution. Madam President, you have made an express reference to Rule 115, when the texts on which your questions are based, were not known until a few minutes ago. They are buying all the parties in the Greek Parliament - it is now the seventh party that is buying - without the two texts which you have distributed a moment ago, to be known in this House. What, then, is the proposal of lenders? What's that proposal? What does he say exactly? The texts are being distributed now. Will the Parliamentary Representatives - and if they will, too - have them taken as they speak? It goes beyond half the meeting, without having the texts on which the so-called question you want to address the Greek people is based. Minister, I would like to ask you this: are they texts, signatures, official proposals - because until now an official proposal of EUR 8 billion has been formally tabled by the Greek Prime Minister only - or are they text of remembrance at meetings? What texts are these? One is an analysis text, as his title says - and indeed a preliminary analysis - and the other, as we learn, is a memorandum that 'feels' the debate within the Consultation Body. Is that so? Are these unsubstantiated texts? You can tell us now, in order to know, ladies and gentlemen, from the very beginning of my speech, why the six previous Members did not have the chance to have the information, that the texts are distributed to Parliament - what is the quality of these texts and what are they? Are they counter-proposals to the Prime Minister's proposal? Are these unsubstantiated counter-proposals? Who's signing them? You've seen them. You guys are dissecting them. You are now due to say this for my own convenience and above me in this House. Are you going to say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u188	These are the official proposals that have been tabled...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Voutsi, please on the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u190	If you want, take the floor, colleagues and I will listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u191	It's...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u192	It can't be done! What are we gonna do? Without text, will we be here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u193	This has had to be true since the beginning of the debate, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u194	You don't have the floor, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u195	Since last night, we've been talking in the air. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] They have the "historic" to raise the finger and raise the languages...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Loverdo, obviously, you don't want any answers from Mr. Voutsi, so go ahead with your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u197	...the languages of an unacceptable voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u198	Why did you testify now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u199	It's unconstitutional! It's not! What is it? At last, make up your mind! We said! Are you in...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u200	Minister, the rapporteur obviously does not want to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u201	Of course I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u202	Then allow you to listen to it, rather than choose with Mr Kyriazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u203	Madam President, we're in...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u204	They are the only official texts submitted to the Greek Government in view of the current Eurogroup, as the only texts on which the Greek side can now join. In other words, they withdrew the existence of the Greek text that existed until the start of yesterday's Eurogroup. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u205	Where's the Greek text?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u206	One is fully translated into Greek, the other will be translated into Greek shortly. What should we do, you guys? There in English they make it between them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u207	Minister, do you have the Greek text?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u208	Oh, it was brought by our delegation last night, guys. Don't shout!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u209	Now you've got it? E-mail and fax don't exist!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u210	Minister, this "children"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u211	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u212	...because you're talking about style in the House, it's very nice, very familiar...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u213	I'm revoking it, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u214	...but it's not stylish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u215	I'm withdrawing it, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u216	Mrs. Canelle, you don't have the floor. And we're not talking about the style in the House. We are talking about parliamentary morality and parliamentary behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u217	Oh, no. There's a style. And this style is yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u218	Some people might be concerned with the style. Some and some of us are concerned with parliamentary behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u219	And style!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u220	Minister, your familiar expression did not bother those whom you addressed. A Member of Parliament has been disturbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u221	You won't impose style!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u222	I'm withdrawing it. Excuse me. I'm saying that for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u223	In any case, I did not use a word that was malicious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. And there will be such tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u226	So it is up to the parliamentary representatives who will be asking for a moment to see whether these texts are signed, to see whether they are text to assist the meetings, or whether they are the so-called 'official proposals', to see whether a referendum can be held or whether it is not possible to do so. And since you had these texts, but wanted to translate them and so on, why didn't you say in your speech, Minister - you spoke about twenty minutes - what are the differences in the sums between the Greek proposal of 8 billion signed by the Prime Minister of the country - is the first Prime Minister in the years of the crisis to sign such texts - and the proposals of the other side?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u228	I see you guys excited. But instead of getting excited and speaking against you, in your word, you should have said what the matter is. You haven't said that. Are we voting, ladies and gentlemen, on the Tsipras proposal, plus the proposals on the other side, on the other hand, on the counterparties? What difference does it make between them? We hear others say 'eight of ours' - the Greek – 'tens of theirs'. We hear others say 'eight of the Greek side, eight and a half of the others'. Is the referendum overreacted? You are suggesting a referendum. We'll see if it happens. It's not supposed to happen. Why don't you explain why we're here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u229	For the debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u230	What do you mean, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u231	...in terms specific and clear? You cannot ask unfounded questions, because, ladies and gentlemen, the whole matter, after our decision at night, is transferred from the Greek Parliament to the President of the Republic. We call on him not to sign a question which does not have the features that the President has read, in detail, that is, that is, it is not with a clear and concrete question. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With vague questions, there are no referendums. Because, ladies and gentlemen, even a first-year law student knows that the referendum is a very good, democratically-democratic, energy within a democracy, but it is also a suspicious process, when the answer is dealt with by the question. And you want to seize the answer from the way you put it so far vaguely. It's a suspect question the way you put it. And it is a suspect, ladies and gentlemen, because no one wants to take the unpleasant tax decision. No one wants that. And the citizen in question must know, what is the difference between the two proposals on taxes which he is required to refuse and those which he is required to accept in accordance with the Tsipras proposal. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Venizelos said so - we have a problem here. Article 44(2) of the Constitution tells us that for budgetary matters that regulate draft laws, a referendum cannot be held, because it is assumed that 90% -95% of the respondent will say 'no'. And the major national issues can also be economic issues. That's right, Mr. Vitch said. But when one of the two texts you've been staying with us a few minutes ago - and we learn it from the report and not officially, and we are a Parliament of the Greeks! - includes a lot of budgetary measures, are you circumventing the Constitution in its essence, or are you not destroying it? It is the President of the Republic, Mr Prokopis Pavlopoulos, and not the majority. He is not President of the majority and has to carry out his duties. We invite him to do that and we will insist on this invitation. Now let's go to issues that are purely political. Mr. Tsipras personally, as a party leader and current Prime Minister, is absolutely inconsistent. Others said 2011 and more today. We maintain our consistency. I personally do not maintain my absolute consistency. At the Ministerial Council on that heavy day of November 2011, I had - with a very thorough and lengthy speech - refused the proposal for the Ministerial Council to submit a motion for a referendum, which was not put forward in the end. The minutes of the Ministerial Council are a fully valid witness and you have them at your disposal. I support the same today, with the honour of proposing the positions of the PASOK. And my basic argument was that, whatever one government and a parliament are asking, the others' interpretation of the question he raises is 'yes' or 'no' to the euro. However, whatever assurances you give that you do not raise this issue, everyone else puts it. Who are all the others? The whole planet! This has created a problem for Greek citizens, this has created a problem for yourself. I repeat for the third time that we are saying 'yes' to the European Union, 'yes' to the euro, 'no' to you, 'no' to a government which has nothing to do with criminal choices, as others have said - and they are right - to play the interests of citizens and the country in dice. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority, in its election speech, fooled the Greek people and seduced his vote. He promised him 12, 13 billion euros. These have been lost for the Greek people. And the Prime Minister's proposal puts measures of 8 billion. From January 25th to today, you lost on road 20 or 21 billion. And you have ridiculed through the behaviour of the Minister of Finance the whole of the Greek people, because the Minister of Finance was ridiculed in the Eurogroup. There's no mistake he didn't do! There's no lie she hasn't told! There is no contradiction in which it has not fallen! You lost five months but on behalf of the country, for the citizens! And as it seems from your own proposal, when you waste time in a dramatic crisis, you lose money, which is not yours but Greek citizens. However, ladies and gentlemen, from the Greek Government's proposal you have learned what it is the Greek people to give. What's to take you've learned? If the programme were to be closed in February 2015, the Greek people would take 7.2 billion of the dose - which you did not want - of the 11 billion CFS and 1.9 billion of the European Central Bank, from the use of Greek bonds. That was our strategy. What will you get when you give yourself 8 billion? Will you get what Stathakis says, a big deal? It's only Stathakis. Will you get an extension, like others say? How many months of extension and how much money? They want to take us to a referendum and we don't even know that. At least at this meeting, you have to say that you are so critical of the country's and the citizens' progress. Because while you do these, the economy collapses, because while you do these, the recession comes back. You did not want to bring in substantial measures, you have brought the whole recession, which you will now increase for some years with the measures you have proposed. Eight billion, then, taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past four years, the equivalent of receipts and expenditure was 35% to 65%, and 40% to 60%. In your proposal of 8 billion, 93% are receipts and 7% are expenditure cut. That is, a recession for too many more years. I repeat, remission for too many more years! I said after the Prime Minister's speech on the programming statements that he would be the Prime Minister of the recession. I said it the next day. It had seemed strange in the conditions of majority charm. The winner always fascinates. It has proved, not only by the course of the five months but also by the nature of the 8 billion proposals, which, by its signature - a prototype, again, in the years of the crisis - Greece has proposed. And in its embarrassment - because it cannot, ladies and gentlemen, have been a strategic referendum, because if it were a strategy, it would not have proposed the 8 billion - from the other side's proposal that made accounts of another kind, fled from last night and today in this pretext and disastrous solution to the referendum. And you applauded him with enthusiasm, perhaps because you have been relieved for some more hours of the burden of telling the citizen what you have done and of transferring to your regions and the people who love you and listen to you, what the situation is and what you are able to do for her. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, from this pretextful manoeuvre of the Prime Minister, we can conclude that it has been at the summit level of what happened to Varoufakis at the Eurozone level. The ridicule and marginalisation of a Finance Minister where it took place, now with the Prime Minister's move, is being brought to his face. And the more political of all issues. We have thought about what the consequences for the people's responses might be, if this referendum should not be held, after all? If it is 'yes' the answer to the misleading question - why is the question misleading and making decisions - you are out the next day and the country is moving into political developments. I hope it's not tragic! But if the answer is 'no', what are the consequences? Are you the drachma lobby? Does what Mr. Xydakis and Mr. Tsironis are here? Mr. Xydakis told us how many miracles the Greek people did with the drachma. Now he remembered. Mr. Chironis said about the same thing in an interview with him in the last few days. Others have long since the start, before the elections, been talking about the drachma. 45% in the recordings of your own correlations is in favour of the drachma. Are you the drachma lobby after all? Yes, that's what you are! There is no other explanation, because, as has been said in the Chamber, you have a mandate for a solution within the euro, you have an order as you have interpreted it through your Prime Minister, you yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u232	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u233	And your refusal to another proposal and further discussion and consultation is in the programme. But the referendum, where you stand in favour of 'no' to the question as you are misleadingly putting it, is the ultimate proof that you are officially promoting the version of the drachma. And we're going to put an end to this downhill! The end will be made up of the developments of the next few hours and the next few days. Minister, give us one more piece of information. Yesterday we heard that the extension of 20 February was requested, which is the case, and the law of the Luxembourg Duchy of Luxembourg and English law and those of you complained about. And the opinions that supported the signature of Varoufakis are the identical ones, the copying of the opinions of the Legal Council of the State which was given to previous Ministers. So all you were saying was Hamima's fairy tales. Give us an answer now. We have heard that there was no extension proposal in the Eurogroup. We read from the 'REUTERS' statement of Varoufakis - if it did not, if it hadn't been overthrown, with him no one can count on it - that it will request an extension. If you don't take her, what are you gonna do? Ladies and gentlemen, will we vote in the evening for a referendum if it is not clear that on 30 June, the country maintains the aegis of the programme? Are you going to make a decision to hold a referendum, that is to say to interrupt any consultations, when it is not clean or, rather, when it becomes even cleaner, that we are out of programme? Do you have an assurance that we'll be on schedule and come here? What do you say to your MPs? Is this discussion enough for them? A few hours ago - it is the absolute news - we heard that no extension was granted as a proposal from the Eurogroup to Eurogroup, because there was no request yours, if that is true. Mr. Varoufakis would submit a request. Did he submit it? What are we going to do about a negative answer? If you don't say that to the vote tonight, you're making a coup d'état. You are making a coup against your MPs first of all, against the National Representation, against the Greek people. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing our best. We're opposition. We are subject to democratic connections. Our voice is Parliament's voice, our opinions. Our voice is the mass events that are taking place for the country's euro stay. And our 'yes' is not 'yes' to this completely misleading question you have raised. It is 'yes' in the European Union. It is 'yes' to the euro, according to the mandate of the Greek people for years now, and 'no' to you. You - and I close, Madam President - five years you have achieved every political, every political party, every voter many times who has put back to support the country. For five months, you have received every concept of discussion, every concept of negotiation, every concept of consultation and many times, every concept of parliamentary life with what is being done here. Today, with this proposal, as Mr Venizelos and other colleagues have described, you are benefiting from the Constitution. Why are you doing this? You're doing it because you can't raise the burden of your promises. You're doing this because you have a secret drachma agenda. You're the drachma lobby, I repeat. You do, because that is how you turn the command given to you by the Greek people. You are doing them as your last act before submitting your mandate to the President of the Republic, who has responsibility and responsibility for this process and we invite him to exercise them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr Seligman, you said: 'We will see if the referendum is to take place and it must not be done'. Because these expressions, but also the suggestions about the exercise of the powers of the President of the Republic, which I have informed the House of being institutionally informed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u235	Why do you answer, Madam President? Get down and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u236	...and there's no question of this address...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u237	Get down and answer! Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u238	Why are you doing this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u239	...I say this: No one thinks that the democratic process that has started and is a leading process of addressing the people's sovereignty...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u240	We're not addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u241	...it's going to stop with any kind of tricks...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u242	Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u243	Hang in there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u244	You're incapacitated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u245	Are you going to criticize the Member's word?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u246	Are you government?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u247	Will you do that to every Member of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u248	...and undemocratic behaviors. He's asked for the floor for five minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u249	Is this the Congressman, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u250	Yeah. You're the descendant of the seat of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u251	My name is Loverdos. I want the floor on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u252	I know, Mr. Loverdo, that you're called Loverdos. I will give you the floor on personal grounds under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u253	Madam President, I have made a little reference to what has been done in Parliament this five-month period. Generally speaking, as a Member of the Greek Parliament I respect the Presidents, I respect you too. Your attitudes too many times with your speeches in the speeches of Members of Parliament, Ministers, anyone who is outside your competence, but that is my view, you have another. The House will decide on these at some point. But you intervened after the end of my speech. And I have this to say, Madam President: are you the House all three hundred? Are you sure about the outcome of the vote? Has the majority of sixty-two done it to you that he will vote as you have said? Why do you not consider the matter of the vote to be pending for time? What arrogant thought makes anyone prejudicing this? And why do you not stand by the fact that this House is sovereign and will decide in the sense of the three hundred who decide to do so? If you think that party discipline or party numerical dolls, as you say - because that is what your phrase says - feels sure about the outcome, why the debate, Madam President? What's the point and what's the character? We give a battle, as we can, in Parliament, outside Parliament, with our transparent, clean and public word, to defend our views on the good of the Greek citizen, for the good of our country. And in that sense, yes, today here in Parliament, yes, the night after or tomorrow when the matter is going to be brought to the President of the Republic, yes, tomorrow morning we will fight to prevent this people from suffering other than suffering, which you personally have put on this whole five-month period. You have the Greek people in a state of despair, to have to choose a package of 8 billion or a bigger or complete disaster of the country. This is your work and you will be charged from the Greek people to antenna, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u254	Mr Loverdos, thank you for giving your interpretation of the phrase: 'The referendum will see whether it will be done. It must not be done."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u255	It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u256	As I see it, no question of party discipline for tonight's vote has been raised. Other practices are these and remind other governments and other finance ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u257	Don't rush.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u258	Mr Tsironis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u260	Minister, do you want the floor for five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u261	And it's too much. Besides, I'm going to be placed later, I hope, so this is where I want to make a clarification, because Mr. Loverdos abusively mentioned my name, integrating me into the supposed drachma lobby. I refer him first to my blog, which I have repeatedly written, because the country must remain in the euro and I think my party, the Ecologist Greens, is the most fervent party in terms of the country's euro stay and the European Greens as a whole. On that day, because it is obvious that Mr Loverdos simply reproduces what the traffickers of fear use, he uses a speech in business forums, in which I said, in spite of the fact that I am an extreme defender of our euro stay, I have asked all these entrepreneurs who have listened to continue investing in our country, continue to invest independently of the outcome of the negotiation and regardless of the delay of the negotiation, because whatever the outcome of the negotiation, whatever problems our country may have, it will always be an excellent place to invest, whoever really wants to invest in sustainable development. And I mentioned the historical example of the times of Greece where the currency was plundering after the civil war and forced traders to use the gold pound. I used a historical example to show that a healthy businessman can also attempt in adverse conditions. So the horror parrots came out the next day to say that Chironis - as if it were up to me - is working on the drachma. And here, of course, Mr. Loverdos, who wouldn't have taken care of reading under the titles, went to bring me into a lobby right now. Because this is his idealism, that those who fight for our country, and we are not followers of Mr. Shoeble, must save and well with a soccer dialect to belong to some drachma lobby. Otherwise, he can't explain why we're here and we're fighting. That's how he can, that's how he does. But please, Mr. Loverdos, open my blog, read my articles and finally stop using names abusive and absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u262	Madam President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u263	The issue has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u264	No, he's not exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u265	Mr Loverdos, I will give you the floor for just a minute, because this has been exhausted and you have spoken for half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u266	You used a very heavy phrase. I know, and I watched it doesn't mean it. He means it to others, but anyway. Madam President, I read his statement, the title, and the text and the explanations he gave. If it is not a matter of enormous and frightening own indignation, it is a matter of personal political will. I stress it, because it's one in a lot. I also mentioned Mr Xydakis, not to mention all your internal correlation that opens up in favour of the drachma, such as ministers who have come out these days and said that in such a scenario the country will find itself difficult for two - three months and then find itself. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I have received the documents that have been distributed now. What a shame. After the end of the seven speeches of the political parties in Parliament, I have now received them. Madam President, they do not bear the slightest signature. We are being invited - and you are being invited - to make a decision with texts that we do not know exactly what they are. One of them even says that it is a conclusion to the positions of the institutions, the troika, which the staff of the services have recorded. These are not things, Madam President. You keep the guys several times, not all of them. Check the documents that are distributed here, especially when they are the documents on which your proposal for a referendum is based. Minister, please tell us now what these texts are and who the signatories are, and secondly, as I have told you, to place Parliamentary representatives - and our own - tell us what the difference is between the proposals that are being recorded here and the proposals made by the Prime Minister of the amount of EUR 8 billion. I invited you both from the Step and you didn't. Do it now, know what the National Representation is talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u267	Apart from the provision of the Staff Regulations. In any case, intervention has been allowed. The documents are those delivered to the Greek Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u268	These are emails. Are you e-mailing me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u269	The feeling is, after all, that many MPs from opposition parties have known them beforehand. In any case, everyone can be placed and, in particular, everyone can be placed on whether such documents should be passed and made a law of the State. The speaker of the SYRIZA and the parliamentary representative, Mr Olga Gerovali, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u270	Madam President, I would also like to speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u271	And then I, Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u272	I mentioned Mrs Gerovalis as one of the three parliamentary representatives. In this debate is the first speaker proposed, the first one declared on the list. You said, Mr Mitsotakis, that you wish as a parliamentary representative to intervene later. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u273	I asked for the floor, Madam President. You never see me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u274	I saw you, Mrs. Liberaki. Here you go, Mrs. Gerovali.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u275	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make something clear. States and peoples are not businesses. Governments are not directors of public limited companies and the folk mandate is not a stock exchange. It is not available for opaque use, distortion and abuse. And to the extent that we can, in so far as the Greek people send us even greater power at the negotiating table, we will not allow the vote of our people, the vote of our fellow citizens and our personal vote to be altered or underestimated by the demands of the lenders and of course neither distort nor undermine nor undermine information. We will not allow insecurity and terror to be cultivated on the part of their domestic supporters. Ladies and gentlemen, five months ago, the Greek people voted for their government, at the same time voting against the policy of the Memorandum of Remission, deploring its social and economic deadlocks. From last January's polls, what was no doubt heard was a bronze 'no' in the policy of austerity, a policy that for the government of Berlin and those of our partners is tightly tied to the chariot and its mandates is even today a Protestant doctrine, an austerity that insists that it should continue to break the Greek citizen, the Greek family, our social cohesion and our national economy. The Greek Government, faithful to the mandate given to it by our fellow citizens, began to negotiate, but not on clean and free horizons, not on white paper in front. A negotiation began within the framework of the legal commitments signed and burdened the continuity of the state, within a suffocating economic framework that we had been inherited for a step by the policies of the previous governments, within an unprecedented Greek government hostile media environment, within a opposition cord that maintained and worked on the 'left parenthesis' strategy. Our Greek colleagues in Europe were negotiating with an awkward European elite that was echoing between the phase of respect for democracy and popular sovereignty on the one hand and the hard interests of neoliberal globalisation on the other hand, between the phase of understanding the humanitarian crisis and solidarity towards the tested Greek people on the other hand in the hard economic interests of creditors. The scales in the first place rose on the second side, of course. Day after day, month after month the inhumane support of the number economy was made more evident than that of the needs. For five months, the convergence points of one meeting were then made "magic image" at the next meeting. Our representatives were negotiating on a front-stage bed in fact and with constantly changing size. When we didn't fit, when we left over and where we left over on Monday, we didn't have a place on Wednesday. On this path we arrived yesterday with the Prime Minister describing in a proposal the substance of the problem: "Your demands go beyond the mandate we have received". The lenders replied to us: 'Game end'. The Greek Government, Alexis Tsipras, interpreting the intentions of the Greek people, responded exactly as it should: "Briefing end, devaluation, humiliation and use of the Greek people ending, unbearable rhetoric, failed memorial recipes of recession and austerity, skin communication ending. Good morning democracy." The citizen takes his dignity in his hands through an immediate-democratic, constitutionalised referendum process. This government trusts both the Constitution and the citizens. In a week they will raise the history of our country and the future of our people. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all experiencing a very serious moment in the modern history of Greek democracy. It closes in the most official way, in the most democratic way, the vicious circle of anti-grass memorials. He's getting a brake on the ceremonies and dealing with our country as a debt colony. The masks are falling. At the same time, the cycle of political awards is broken. At the moment, the political staff of our country, our political system, all parties have a very serious responsibility, a great responsibility in two directions, on the one hand, to inform exhaustively and responsibly the people to the other Sunday in order to choose and with knowledge and confidence, not to let the agenda be changed with a 'euro or drachma', 'in or out of Europe', and on the other hand, to demonstrate, in the last few months, what they have been saying constantly - and not only - national harmony, national unity, national responsibility, the need for national understanding, not to turn the next week into micro-political, divisive and opportunistic. The referendums by nature group together views, because they are two. Of course, we'll team up, but don't stick together. Let us see to it that the opposite view is a different view, not an aggressive one. Our interests are common, and they are no more than the interests of our people. Mr. Shoeble has the culture of accountant and mercenary. The Greek people have a culture of democracy and they are a proud people. He learned to fight in the tough and of course to keep his dignity. At this very critical moment, then, in the last five months, the people have touched on the Left, in SYRIZA to support him, lift him up and reopen the door of hope. And that's exactly what's bothered inside and outside the border. That is why they are fighting rabies and unambiguously to humiliate SYRIZA, but of course mainly the people, to punish him for his unexpected choice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. That is why they were very disturbed by the referendum, because they really know the result and they fear it. They fear immediate democracy, fear the power of the Greek people. Everything that has happened over these five months, ladies and gentlemen, and what will happen after the Sunday referendum has expressed it better than me: 'And what you did not do to bury me. But you forgot I was seed." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Mitsotakis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, on January 25th, about five months ago, the Greek people gave a clear command to the new SYRIZA Government - ANEL to be able to negotiate a better agreement than we might have succeeded as a previous government, but to keep the country within the euro. It is now quite clear that SYRIZA electorally told a very big lie. He promised that in some magical way he could secure additional funding without suffering the suffering of the Greek society undergoing the suffering of additional, hard measures. But of course, as revealed in these five months, the real dilemma was never a ‘ memorial-antimony’. This was a very convenient dilemma to build this heirly alliance in populism which took advantage of the pain of the Greeks and succeeded and extracted the vote of the Greek people. The dilemma, as it has been shaped and shaped today, is still very clear: painful agreement or bankruptcy. This is the real dilemma that we are still facing today, and that is the dilemma in which the Greek people, if we finally get to the referendum next Sunday - and I will then explain why I say whether -, it will be called to answer. The Greek people have watched voices in these last four months on one red line after the other, Greece with the various clever negotiating tactics of Mr Varoufakis losing one ally after another in Europe, the real economy - for which of course you have never cared, gentlemen of SYRIZA - to sink into the recession, to sink, the liquidity to dry, and the spectrum of bankruptcy to come back, above the country. Personally, I have to tell you that I was sure, as I believe many of my colleagues in the New Democracy, that the Prime Minister - with great popular acceptance, the new Prime Minister in the history of Greece, would at the last moment have a sense of his or her historic duty, the heavy burden that he bears on his shoulders, and that at the last minute he would do so, that is to say, to conclude an agreement with the creditors so as to avoid the tragic event of bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry. We were naive! We did not see that in practice there was a second project behind all these SYRIZA negotiations. And the second project was quite clear: lead the country back to the drachma. And this project still exists and is timely, ladies and gentlemen, because in the deepest sense the European suit - this suit which Constantine Karamanlis, recognizing at the time that it should be tight at that time, should be applied - the commitments and obligations within the European Union, Mr Presidents, colleagues of SYRIZA and ANEL do not really fit you. What is happening at the moment, in substance, through the referendum is a coup d'état with which various neo-communist forces, in a coup d'état with the forces of ethnicism, are finally trying to drive the country out of Europe, outside the euro, and back to the drachma. But now on the end of the referendum the masks have fallen and this drachma conspiracy is revealed. So let's see, ladies and gentlemen, what we really are asking the Greek people today to do next Sunday, what we are going to vote on in this referendum, which you claim will give a democratic political solution to the deadlock facing the country. So let's go see them one by one. I have several questions which I would like to ask you, Minister, and I would really ask you to be on them. Because if you do not place yourself, you understand that this debate cannot continue, at least until the National Representation receives concrete answers from the government. The first question I have: Is there really a proposal from creditors? Is this a proposal today? Is that a signed proposal? I have seen, I have to tell you, with great surprise, what these two texts were, which you shared with us very much, five minutes ago. And I understand - and that's exactly why you've been late...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u278	17:00 an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u279	Five minutes ago, Madam President. If Parliament's copiers don't work fast, that's what I'm afraid it's your problem, not mine. So what are these texts?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u280	I thought you'd say it's my work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u281	Oh, I don't know! That's what you'll judge. So, what exactly are these texts? Let's go check it out. The first text, I read: "Preliminary analysis of the viability of Greece's debt". Date: 25 June 2015. "This note" - note - "which has been produced by the staff of the European institutions, summarizes their views and those of the staff of the International Monetary Fund" and continues the text at the end of the paragraph "a more detailed debt sustainability analysis will be presented at the complete completion of the assessment". Three pages of internal note, in which some estimates of debt sustainability are made and will the Greek people be invited to the first referendum that will take place after forty years to place it on an internal note? Are you serious? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you a little ashamed to say these things? And the second text. What's the second text? Let's go see the second text. I don't have it in Greek, you didn't bother to translate it: "Reforms for the collection of the current programme and beyond". Who's signing this text? First of all, I do not want to comment on the fact that this text is underlined, it has various Checks next door, it still has gaps that need to be completed on legislative initiatives to be taken. What exactly is this text, Mr Voutsi? What's this text? Is that a signature? Can you commit today that today we are talking about the official position of the institutions? Because I read that in this text - and I ran it at the same time, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen - you propose, for example, VAT on tourism, 23%. Is it 23% or 13% VAT on tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u282	13%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u283	Is he imprinting the final proposal? And when the areas of Greece that are living by tourism, Crete, Rhodes, to vote, will they be placed on a VAT which will be 23% or 13%? But I fully understand why you have difficulty, Minister, to make this text public earlier. If you gave it before you would allow us to do something self-evident, to make a comparison between this unsigned text and the only signed text sent by the Greek Government with the signature of Prime Minister: Alexis Tsipras, the left memorandum of 8 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u284	Bravo! Tsipra memorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u285	If you would like, Madam President, because you like to make it easier for Members - and you do well - why not do the simple thing? Take the two texts before the meeting is completed, make a simple comparison to see how the two texts are compared and see what their differences are and where they are agreed. I, for example, in the first left memorandum signed by Alexis Tsipras and by measures of EUR 8 billion - and of course this is reflected in the text of the institutions - I read: HISPIA for two years and in 2015 and in 2016, EUR 2.65 billion. They agree with the two texts in this regard. I read, for example, a proposal from the Government: VAT on packaged foods 23%, on pasta, on rice, on cookies, on packed bread. I read and am surprised - I do not see Mr Hatzidakis here: Implementation of the toolkit OECD. How about you? Are you implementing the toolkit OECD, which you fought so raggedly? I read in the text signed by Alexis Tsipras and eight billion euros of measures: the liberalisation of the energy market and the implementation of the European Directives. Mr. Petrakos, you who have fought against liberation, Mr. Lafazanis, where is he now? That is why you did not submit the text earlier. So I make it easier for Members. In the Minutes, Madam President, the text, the left Memorandum of Measures 8 billion with Alexis Tsipras signing. I would ask him to share with the Members so that they can even, since you will not make it easier for them to compare and compare the two texts. [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any case, if we find, by magic, that the texts are not so far apart, why are you not putting your own text in a referendum? Why don't you put your own text in a referendum and say 'yes' to your own text, which is the only text bearing the signature of the Greek Government? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would therefore ask that it be distributed, unless you want to formally present it to us, because this is a leak from a newspaper. It would not be very decent to distribute to the Members a leak. You guys gave it to the leak, of course, no one else gave it to you. So put before you, Mr Voutsi, and the official proposal, your memorandum. Put it officially in the Minutes and let us compare the two proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u286	The request for the extension has been rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u287	We'll come to that. The third question, which I have for you, Minister, is what will happen from today when the referendum is held next Sunday? What's gonna happen? I don't want to give the answer. I read: 'If the Prime Minister attempts to hold a referendum and put measures or exits to the people, then the collapse of the economy, the bankruptcy of the country will come long before the poll. This is not a referendum, it will be a dangerous roll for the country." Can you ensure, Minister, that you recommend the referendum that the country arrives smoothly until Sunday next? Can you specifically guarantee the National Delegation that you have ensured an extension of the existing programme beyond 30 June? Can you ensure today that on 1 July the banks will be open? Can you, yes or no? Because if you are not nationally dangerous to this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u288	The request for the extension has been rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u289	I therefore expect your answer to be interesting if you can ensure today and ensure in Parliament that the country is brought smoothly by the next Sunday with open banks, with an economy that operates without social unrest, or if you simply throw another big roll with the great hope that, where Europeans did not retreat, they will now retreat at the expense of the referendum at the end of the day. Another question, fifth question. So was there another alternative to the proposal submitted by the Prime Minister or was this proposal a one-way proposal, and therefore a one-way proposal and the reply of the creditors? Of course, there was and there is an alternative today. You do not want to examine it and analyse it, because the alternative would mean, Minister, cutting costs, interventions targeted at the large state, in which you and your Deputy Minister, Mr Katrugalos, would like to support and hire his customers, not just party and personal customers. So you choose a mixture that breaks the real economy and breaks the real middle class. Because you're not interested in the economy, you're not interested in the middle class. You have an old left-wing aversion for the private sector and entrepreneurship. The last question I have is what the President of the Republic will do. The President of the Republic is aware of these texts, have you given them to him? Is it aware that the texts, which will be put to the crisis of the Greek people, are texts which are unsubstantiated, an internal note and an unsubstantiated text which can be changed at any time? And have you ensured that the President of the Republic, who will issue the presidential decree that the country will progress smoothly from today until the next Sunday when the referendum takes place? Have you done all this? So it is a great responsibility for the President of the Republic, who, I am sure, is following this debate, is assessing the data and I am not at all sure that he has a full picture of the real data and the dimension of the issue that arises with the deposit of the texts that you have today, with great delay, given the National Representation. Let us assume, however, in the interests of the argument that we are arriving at the next Sunday without any particular turmoil - something I have serious doubts about - and the referendum is taking place. The referendum can lead either to 'no' or 'yes'. If it leads to 'no', what do you really think will happen in Europe? Here the invocation of the people's mandate, which you had, was not enough to be able to convince the creditors to give us a better deal. Why will the referendum be able to do something more? The reality is that this referendum has never been held and will never be accepted for the purpose of accepting these texts or not. The referendum is actually a referendum on 'yes' or 'no' to the euro. You do not dare to say this, but this is the additional legitimacy that you ask the Greek people and you do not even have the courage to stand up to this Step and say that this is what you are putting into the Greek people's crisis: 'Do you want or do you want to be part of Europe?' And you bring from the back door a disguised referendum, so that you can then, in case the Greek people say 'no', launch the plan - which you had in mind from the outset - of Greece's exit from the euro area. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If, however, the referendum is held and the Greek people say 'yes', what are you going to do next? Are you going to continue? Are you going to whistle indifferently? Will you quit the next day? You must answer. Will you, will you, the anti-monstrous anti-immemorials who have criticised so severely in this text, a text that will ultimately be supported by the Greek people? So, what are you going to do, Minister? You're quitting? I imagine it is obvious that next Monday Mr Tsipras should present his resignation to the President of the Republic. I would, however, like to hear you ratify it in public too. Because I cannot imagine Mr Lafazani voting and suggesting in this Chamber the liberalisation of the energy market - I find it difficult to imagine - or other SYRIZA MPs introducing privatisation bills, in other words embraced a liberal agenda which, with so much effort and effort, fought. You are therefore due, Minister, to suggest the bill, to give real and honest answers. The moments are historical, the Greek people are watching you, watching us all and judging us all strictly. And if you really want to go to the Greek people, why don't you take a step further? Why don't you announce elections? Why don't you give the final solution to the problem? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because it is only in this way that the Greek people will ultimately be able to decide not only on the nature of the agreement but also on whom they want to negotiate the country's euro stay. So take the next step. You're provoking elections. We are not afraid of the people's judgment. We are asking you to take a step further, to provoke elections, to fight, because only through the elections will the country finally be freed from one government, the first time on the left, which proves so dangerous for the country. Good morning democracy, SYRIZA's dear friend, who preceded the Stepma, told us. Good night SYRIZA, the Greek people will tell you if it is taken to the polls.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u290	Short party!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u291	Madam President, I would like to close - and I also use my dentistry - by tabling a very nice cartoon of Arkas, this sketch artist, who was so sketchy and fought by the various vertical trolls, who have no different view. So what's Arkas sketching for? ‘A leader is the one who can prevent a disaster, which would not come if he did not rule.’ [[At this point Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You still have a chance and Mr. Tsipras has another chance to prevent this disaster, to stand up to the circumstances. He has the choice today to shake bulbs, to become the leader who will be able to prevent the destruction that he, of course, has done. In addition, if Mr Tsipras' fantasy is not to become a leader, it is at some point to become a 'Komadante Tsipras' T-shirt, which will be worn by the various left-wing youths in Latin America, when they make their audience festivals. However, because the Greek people did not give any such authorisation to the Prime Minister, because it did not give you any authorisation to jeopardise the European future of the country, because it did not give you any power to authorize this European flag, which coexist with the Greek flag, with the sovereign decisions of the Greek people and the Greek Parliament, to download it, to withdraw it. Before it is too late to take the referendum decision, answer how you will ensure the country after 1 July and do the best you can now offer as a service in this place, lead the country to elections to get rid of once and for all from the first time left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u292	I would ask in this Chamber those who gave their lives for freedom, democracy and equality not to be taken away from them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u293	Is that possible? But are you still commenting? You can't comment!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u294	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u295	The Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Nikos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u296	What are you? Finally! You have no right to act like a sabbath!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Varvichiotis, do not beat the seat, do not exaggerate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u298	Please respect the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u299	I'm revoking you to class! It is, moreover, one of the few times that you are attending this House. Try to be patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u300	I won't allow you! Do this to your home, to your family!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u301	Leave the reasons for families and try to be decent, however difficult your presence is scarce in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u302	Finally! This story must end.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u303	Madam President, this is Greece, it is not North Korea. You have to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u304	The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few things that need to be explained and colleagues who have an experience in the Chamber and consider that they are historical moments and that everyone is judged, etc. - as Mr Mitsotakis has already said - to stand up for and self-determination in what they say, because otherwise they give an alpine impression. These T-shirts with people and fighters, who have written history around the world and which our children, our grandchildren, have previously worn them, there is no need to be ridiculed on the substance and problematic feeling, not about humor, but about a confrontation - it was supplemented "and from North Korea" - which is going far away, because then not to shout about splitting up. Either you hold on to it or don't shout about splitting! Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u306	You guys gonna talk about splitting up?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u307	You personally talk about splitting up!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u308	You watch out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u309	We are very careful, Mr Vorides, and you know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u310	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u311	With these texts you are splitting up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u312	I recall in class Mr. Voridis, Mrs. Vultesis and Mr. Varvitsiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u313	You know us very well. Never in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u314	What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Voridis, why are you so nervous today?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u316	I'm nervous?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u317	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u318	You're telling us about splitting up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u319	The chief fighters...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u320	We have never been misunderstood in this Chamber and you know that very well. You can withstand ideological and political conflicts... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Oh, that's not how it works, guys! Now, again, guys...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u321	Will you be quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u322	Now it hurts you! But you didn't let a single meeting take place. Now you've been hurt...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u323	You're not embarrassed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u324	On the dates...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u325	And the dates. You're right. No, but that's exactly what I'm telling you. It's a...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u326	Now you're caught...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u327	Mr Varvitsiotis, you are one of the most absent Members in the House. You're here today and you're going to disrupt the whole meeting? Stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u328	What are you doing? Do you keep an address book?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u329	You're always absent!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u330	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u331	The texts that have been deposited... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Now can you calm down and listen to some things? The texts that have been submitted and that is the last one that is being submitted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u332	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u333	It is the translation, the'reforms', what Mr Mitsotakis said. It is precisely the texts which, on behalf of all three institutions, have been tabled to the Greek Delegation as the only texts on which an accession has been requested - say as you wish - to sign, to sign, to conclude, on behalf of the Greek side, after the Greek text has been removed from the middle. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But because you have questions about the substance, and you shouldn't have, because you have choices, you have been identified with these texts in their ideological, I mean, formation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u334	Taxes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u335	...I will tell you that the differences in the texts are neither primarily nor solely in the sums, and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u336	What's it to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u337	For example, there is one objection on the part of the lenders in the agreement to tax large capital. There is an objection to the fact that there is a particular tax on larger incomes and, on the contrary, there is once again your own gospel, which you jointly wrote in the past five years. What was that gospel? Remember them, you were here. Horizontal cuts in wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u338	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u339	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u340	Reductions in wages and pensions, i.e. a reduction in public expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u341	As you do in 2015-2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u342	And you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u343	That's the gospel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u344	...to make public spending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u345	For our part, you know very well that there is no reduction in wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u346	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u347	You know that very well, because the points were removed too...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u348	Aren't VAT going to increase?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u349	Listen a little. The points relating to additional contributions to the health sector have also been removed, as have the VAT on the islands - and the world has heard them - and the toolbox to which you refer, the second toolbox of the OECD, in other words the professions. You haven't studied them, your right, even though the Greek press...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u350	And why don't you give them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u351	Now you're giving it up?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u352	Don't shout, I'll get out of "re children" again, and we'll have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u353	You've officially not shared them yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u354	One week, when each Greek has this anguish about what is happening, he has seen all this published in the valid Greek press and on site and elsewhere, in detail and step by step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u355	Have you given them to the MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u356	Mrs. Vulture, it's impossible...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u357	No, share it with the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u358	But it's impossible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u359	Let the man speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u360	No, I'll say what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u361	Mrs Vulteris, you do not even have the status of parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u362	I don't know what you're saying. Leave the qualities...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u363	Stop interrupting the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u364	I got it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u365	Stop interrupting the Minister. Stop beating the text that has been distributed to you, try to listen - to listen to the rest - and when your turn comes you will speak. You're on the list that gave your party, don't fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u366	I could therefore point out to you the substantial differences we have mentioned that they have a strong social class mark, between the two approaches.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u367	No, tell your own who's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u368	That's very clear, and it's the base, Mr. Fisherman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u369	Why don't you say your own proposal for people to vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u370	Remind me, Lord! Listen, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u371	Minister, if you'll excuse me for just a second. Please, everybody, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u372	There's a very big hypocrisy here. I mean, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u373	Seems! Bam is hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u374	Be careful. I have not referred to you in a moment, but I can refer to you if you continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u375	Soon I'll say he's making an eye.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u376	And a little eyebrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u377	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u378	Jesus, make so many remarks!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u379	You have made a series of speeches in which, while none of you - a man or woman - is talking about what the partner lenders have brought up throughout the week, and while you know that on Monday it was a base text, which I repeat is not our proposal, it is not our programme, but it is the attempt to co-exist, and so this effort you know and have acknowledged, you are fully aware that at least two tumbs have been made and that different texts and retreats have been made on the part of lenders. As you also know, they were left with a text when they finally arrived at the Eurogroup, that is, theirs and asked for accession. You all know that. The entire Greek people know that. You're the only ones in here who's not concerned. You don't know that, you don't interpret it, you don't recognize it. Why? This is the position on the part of our trading partners, because you fully support - and it seems to us today - that attitude on the part of our trading partners. And you also support this: Just last night we in the first responses we had from outside, which the Prime Minister had talks with top leaders - I do not want to mention, do you realize who I am talking about - told him 'but this referendum ultimately, is it euro or drachma, or are you taking it to it, or are you going to that? This is how we will argue, know it." And they had a conversation about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u380	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u381	You come today and not just say the same thing, not just confirm it, not just seal it, not just push a whole world...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u382	Are we pushing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u383	...and the government that, my people, there's a secret agenda, a secret thought to go to another currency, there's a manoeuvre, defend the flag, screams, etc. These things aren't right. It's wrong and you realize it. They are intent interpretations and, above all, they are full support, at the most critical moment that we are going through as a country, in a controversy that on some sides is also a conflict with partners - lenders,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u384	That's what we hear and we've been back together for five months now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u385	... irresponsible assistance to texts, opinions and practices of partners - lenders to the country and to the government. Because you never had the courage...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u386	What courage?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u387	...the painful moments that you might have had to reveal and bring them to the surface in the successive memorials and in the medium term that were coming, today you are coming to do the full apology of those who are pushing the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u388	Who's splitting now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u389	We were not prepared, and we said so, Mrs Vulture. This government, this Prime Minister, could not sign the final agreement, that is, the final agreement that the partners - creditors suggested yesterday, because it would be a disaster for the Greek people. You did not say a word on the debt issue because you say that on the other hand I heard Mr Mitsotakis earlier that on this matter, for example, the public sector brought back his serious discomfort because he did not have time to fire another five thousand and why did Mr Katsugalos prevent... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...to reinstate a place or everyone - everything we've ever done - from the most severely vulnerable groups you've ever fired. You've brought that trouble back. I can understand that, so you wanted redundancies and blood and flesh to the lenders to get the money you would then give them in their other pockets and would not make them any productive reconstruction and would not give them to the private sector because you made them one and a half million unemployed in the private sector. The padlocks you made and delivered them to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u390	Are you all right? Look at the unemployment figures. We delivered you at 24.5%!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u391	However, I would repeat all this because there is an ideological difference and approach, namely, creditors, several of them, Mr Voridis, have the same understanding of the neoliberal views of the gentlemen, who have been in the government's seat in the previous period. I repeat that I would understand that, i.e. a debate on it. But what I do not understand - and you need to explain it once, here, beyond this step - is because on the crucial issue of the debt, which is the nipple on the Greek programme, and which would have no agreement on the two - first steps that would liberate resources and release the country's difficulties and commitments for 2015 directly and for 2016, so the crucial issue is not just saying anything, but you agree to extend this deadlock, that is, you agree for the next few decades to have the long-term memoirs in the biennial, based on the country's lack of relief in debt. Because you are sure that it is sustainable, in their own view, but unfortunately you are also sure that only if there is a debt can impose austerity and pay the EUR 300 to Greece. In other words, you also have a representation of social and class interests on this programme that creditors want to impose on the country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] After all - did I hear you well, Mr. Mitsotakis? - Are you asking for elections? This is a significant development.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u393	Indeed, if you represent - and I have no reason to question it - your party in this requirement would have an interesting evening by the President of the New Democracy to seek immediate recourse to the polls, to appeal to the people. You can be sure that we will come back to this proposal, we will think about it, we will study it. Open is the road. We have nothing more to fear. You know that very well. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u394	That's what we want!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u395	But what you must not ask is to guarantee you - he says - that things will go smoothly, normally. So what can we guarantee? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u396	That the banks won't close. That's what we're asking. Is it okay for the banks to close? Is there no problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u397	Does normality and regularity include the massacre, the millions below the poverty line, the humanitarian crisis, the people who commit suicide or the people who emigrate outside, our thousands of children? Is that normal and smooth? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And when he is in danger of returning to businessmen - short-term or like - the percentage with which he participates in the insurance contributions to rectify the insurance system, which you have led to the collapse, then he begins with non-normality, non-normality? And we should bring the certificates so that you don't feel embarrassed, do elite here over the Greek state get anything wrong? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's not how it works! I will say something and I shall end with that, Madam President, and I am very sorry. I don't get used to it or want to be diverted from time to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u398	You haven't exceeded time. There have been so many interventions and such delays.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u399	When I said this morning - it seems that you did not get the message, you did not understand it well - to the millions of people who have no voice and who this government will represent them honestly, frankly, until the last randy of policy in the European Union, with the euro, but without a memorandum, without austerity, you did not understand it. You didn't get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u400	How does the Tsipra Memorandum represent them exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u401	What are you going to do about it? You're a government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u402	You are very concerned when the demands of this world, which has been neglected, have been marginalized. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u403	What about us? You're the government. Satisfy them! Satisfy them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u404	We will do it, Mr Vorides, within the four-year period for which our people have chosen everything. I promise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u405	Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u406	I could tell you, but I will not waste my time - which I do not have the time, so I will not lose it - for this four-month period for all ten major sectors of the economy, democracy and the reforms we have made, regardless of whether you do not like them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u407	You will not now tell us what is happening with the immigrants and the terrorists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u408	So when the 'first time left' in the four and a half months does this with the knife in the neck and without a euro, you can be sure that this world and other world know very well what we will do in the four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The State Secretary, Mr Terrence Quik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u410	Madam President, have you forgotten me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u411	No, Mrs. Libertyraki, I didn't forget you. Before you Mr Quik had asked for the floor, then you are Mr. Papapas and then Mr. Venizelos. In the order of speech requested, you are given. Mr. Quick had asked for a very long time ago. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Madam President. It was admittedly the title of the day. Samara party official - I do not know if it is one of those who love him or of those who do not take him into his party, of what I at least read, I do not want to interfere internally - who so far considered the elections for Greece to be a disaster - I am referring to Mr Samaras - to ask for elections. I do not hide to you, ladies and gentlemen, that I was one of those who preferred the referendum, regardless of whether my democratic conscience was in the hands of the majority and of course what was decided on at the Ministerial Council. Now elections! Here and now, not to put end titles to SYRIZA, but you might put end titles to your Chief. But anyway, I'm going to leave yours. I would like to go for a moment - let me - in the PASOK area. Because PASOK comes out European, accusing SYRIZA, but also us Independent Greeks, as a drachma party. We have proved that we have been Europeans since we met ourselves, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u413	In words.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u414	I would like to remind you, Mr Yakoumato, that when Constantine Karamanlis in Zappeio Megaron signed Greece's accession to the EEC, the PASOK was absent from the Chamber. I would also like to remind you that it is the party that, through their then leader, Kostas Simitis, built all that virtual reality with the swaps - two billion profits by Goldman Sachs - to put us in a euro and to pay for the sins of the way they put us into the euro until today. I would also like to remind you, Mr Giakoumatos, that it is the party which, with its own people, did not allow Kostas Mitsotakis to do the reforms in the 1990s. Because then I was his duke on the radio, Mr Yakumato. But many years have passed since then and too much has changed in the political scenery. It took some to stand up to the Europe of Shoeble, who thinks it might be the boss, when Constantine Karamanlis was the one who spoke, Mr Yakoumato, about the Europe of peoples, nations and social solidarity, of humanity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u415	Aren't you going to put the time, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u416	I would also like to remind you that that party, which was then saying 'EEC and NATO the same union', was the party that brought out a leader who spoke to us in 2010 about a 'Global Government', if you remember it well, global governance, because that was what he expressed with the bankers, with the International Monetary Fund that he put in Europe, bringing disaster into the country. The fact that the government in Parliament has tabled a referendum in writing - and this is written, you cannot question it - and it is part of our negotiation with the institutions, means that it is part of our effort to find a viable solution within the euro area. It is Greece's effort not to charge new debts for the next generations. Because if we propose the solution and the measures given to us by the institutions - and I imagine that you knew them before we learned them as government, from the institutions, I mean - then, unfortunately, we will have promised not only the future of children and grandchildren, which you have already done, but also of the grandchildren. You know, we didn't take such an order from the Greek people on January 25th. I must also tell you that it is extremely annoying that this wave of terror that is once again unleashing from the Samaras party and, above all, from many media, repeating the horror scene of the recent electoral period that has not led you anywhere. Nowhere! Rather, this wave may have played a part in your condemnation. I refer to the results of the poll, which I also read in the newspapers is a matter of discussing your internal party. But that's your thing, it's not ours. Let me make it quite clear: we did not have a mandate on 25 January to leave the euro. So, in there, we're fighting for the solution. And I would like to thank the JRC very much, which reminds us at every opportunity that the Independent Greeks are Europeans. Yes, we are lovers of Europe - but I repeat - of peoples, nations and solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u417	Euroleaves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u418	Yes, we are Euroleagues, but we are not terrorized. Above all, we're not Soviets, dear friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u419	Euro-union lads.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u420	We did not get the mandate to continue with the memorials, so next Sunday we should really by national prolongation help Greece and help its honest struggle with this government. We call for all parties to be confiscated in substance. How many times have you not reported about national efforts and national controversies, of course, after a holiday, after the elections? We ask, however, for the substance of this. When you talk about national unity, really put back on the time that you have to. We didn't go, you know, like the Papandreou, Samaras - Venizelou to the institutions with their hands down to say 'yes, to everything'. On the contrary, we have not only put our imperative dignity, not only on matters of the recovery of our national sovereignty, but above all on a development path at last. I must also tell you that this kind of unpleasant phenomena, the sick phenomena with ATMs and banks, must end. They have started from the election period, and I am sorry that not one prosecutor intervened at that time, but recently, when your own officials come out and they terrorize the world that the next day they will find nothing at the ATMs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u421	Lapavita, tell Lapavica that and the other one about a drachma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u422	The Greeks' money has to tell you that it is absolutely guaranteed. I think it is time for Europe to understand that it cannot be Europe in the way it is envisioned by the Symble of the two speeds, with the South being thrown at a corner and with us, Greece having done it with your own tolerance for experimental animals, and that we must finally become the Europe of the peoples, the nations and solidarity. I'll highlight it, I'll call it, I'll say it until you hear it and understand it. And if we do not hear that from anyone in this Chamber - politically we do - we are talking, politically, about 'prison' for example, so they at least think, because they want to escape the consequences of the upcoming Spanish elections, nobody says so in this Chamber, because it plays this scenario as you know very well, then they are making a very big mistake, negotiating the arm of the Spanish political scene in Greece, confusing Rahoi and Podemos and the upcoming elections there. Why, bad lies, many analysts connect it. In addition, I would like to say that they do not have the right of politicians to point out - foreigners, European politicians - who and what government should govern our country - and I disagree with and put many wonders - about SYRIZA - ANEL cooperation. We are a sovereign state with the responsibility of selecting the government that its own people want. Greece, as I told you before, will be the one that will follow what - I will say once again - reiterated Konstantinos Karamanlis, what we are looking to find today as SYRIZA and ANEL, who do not come out and say "We are in Europe", because that is our difference. You want to stay in a Europe, as you have made it with the memorials, and we want to stay in a Europe outside of memorials that we can control our homeland and not have the Gaulinders above our head, and even be governed by governments with the dictates of foreign texts that should come here as legislation. However, let us stress that on Sunday once again - let's take the river what I'm about to say - we're really going to give...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u423	Does it take time for any Member to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u424	Yeah, he's got half an hour left!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u425	Time is independent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u426	Gentlemen, the Minister has not exhausted the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u427	Evaporate zero?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u428	It's been 10 minutes. I didn't start the time, and that's why I didn't put him after, because that's how I'd give him more. I'm looking at him. I've got it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u429	All right, relax!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u430	Minister, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u431	I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you very much. I am simply looking to the side of those who have said that they will support the national effort. And I would like to see what national effort you will support on Sunday, which will draw weight from the backs of the Greek people or that effort, which you think or sign, and which is given in a note that says you will have to pay, as I said before, and our grandsons? I can't do that, gentlemen. No way. So stay in the blurred waters of your river and let us see the sun of Greece, if anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u432	Bravo, Quick!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The Parliamentary spokesman for the River Mr Lyberakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u434	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have been called upon to discuss a very serious issue. It's not exactly what we imagined. We, the river, had no desire to do so. However, we will not hesitate - to tell you from the outset and to reach the end - and with confidence, clearly, with bravery and, above all, without any chewing on our words, to give what we consider to be the greatest battle. It is the mother of the fighting, if you will, that battle, which will strengthen our country's position in the European family and in the euro. It is very regrettable, in our view, that this debate is now being held in a group, I would say. Very intelligent and experienced politicians are depleting their time by using - you know - these geniuses - not to say intelligence and not to add that they have a great amount of testosterone all this debate - where they enthusiastize their fans and applaud them all together, when it is literally the present and tomorrow of our country. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So I am going to do something completely different, which is not customary in this House. I will not address my convinced and convinced companions and companions. I shall turn to the rest of us, because the House is to talk to each other and not within us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u435	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u436	I shall say, therefore, that what we are dealing with today, which is the government's proposal for a referendum within a week, in our opinion, has many problems, which are procedural, constitutional and institutional problems. Mr. Friends is asking for the floor, Mr. President, and you have not seen him beforehand. Some of these are institutional, constitutional and procedural. They were very eloquent and with the specialty of both Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Fortsakis this morning. But, as we said in our initial position, we must not focus on legal, constitutional or institutional issues. The essence is political, and the question is political, and we must have political arguments, because it is ultimately political, and the question is absolutely political. That is why I would like to focus a little on the political problems of this proposal. The first thing I would like to say is that the referendums in the world all have a very clear, narrow and understandable question. I would like us, at least instantly, to agree that two technical texts in original and translations are not exactly what we say clear, understandable, understandable question. The second problem is that it is probably unobjective. In other words, this is a proposal that she photographed in the negotiation process on 25 June - if I am not mistaken 25 June, it is the date on which the texts are being written from above - which was probably a proposal that has now been withdrawn from the table. The third political problem is that it reminds of parody. And you'll tell me if you're using such words as parody, how will you get in touch with the people you disagree with with? Let's find another term. However, what I want to say to you is that what the government has not achieved in five months' time is called upon to decide within five days a whole people and make a decision, which will not only decide what will happen in the next five years, nor in the next fifteen years, but what will happen and what will happen to people for five generations. I think that, in fact, because the question is not directly asked and is being put in a way that, in my opinion, is neither dilemma nor referendum, the real question is whether our country will remain in Europe or whether we will become the 21st-century Titanic flag country. Furthermore, let me say that the referendum is an exact solution. Based on 2012 prices, a referendum costs at least 110 to 120 million. You're gonna tell me, okay, now you're getting caught by the sting? I would like to say to you that 110 to 120 million is a much greater amount than what they were asking to cut from the most wealthy of the EASA and for which we were unable to reach agreement. But we have them for a referendum. 110 to 120 million is greater than the portion that separates us from our lenders. Be careful, if it were a decision of minor importance, it would perhaps not be that important. But it is a very important decision. Why, then, after all these things happen, a well-meaning government is proposing a referendum? We in Potami do not believe that he always had a plan to get us out of Europe, hide it, and now the masks fall. I must say here that neither we will invoke it nor believe nor underestimate the fact that the overwhelming majority of both the voters and the members and Members of the SYRIZA are pro-European. And I'm really glad to hear Mr. Quick say the same thing about himself. Nor do we believe that SYRIZA is extremely remote from reality, has a criminal ignorance of danger and consequences of his actions, and therefore while he is in favour of Europe, he will eventually throw us off the rocks because of criminal ignorance and negligence. We don't underestimate SYRIZA, we don't underestimate the government. That is why all we still have to conclude is that the government is proposing the referendum as a movement of political impression, which it believes will strengthen our country's position in the negotiation. That is to say, it is a proposal which invokes a referendum, which, as soon as it falls on the table, will create a retaliation of creditors' pressures and possibly facilitate our position. In short, it is a proposal for a referendum, which will only do us good if it is not done, i.e. if only the idea that we will move on to this change in the rigid attitude of others. But is that the way things are? I do not hesitate to tell you that I wish we could think it was a weapon that would facilitate our country's position in the negotiation. Unfortunately, however, I will be telling you that I do not believe it is a weapon that will facilitate our country's position in the negotiations. And honestly, I wish that we were wrong. On the contrary, we believe that with the proposal for a referendum the government is opening the door to major accidents and incalculable adventures. Our thoughts are mainly found in what will take place the next day. Because I can very well imagine what each one will say on the basis of our earliest honest life anyway by Sunday. And after Sunday, what exactly will happen? It is a very big problem if all the burden of the arguments falls into a high-political risk, something like a roll. The arguments we have heard today have not mentioned at all what will happen the next day. Not on Monday tomorrow, Monday after the referendum. We have heard very, very eloquent and disgusting things about what was not done, what could be done, what was wrong. But, we heard nothing about how all of us, the Greeks and the Greeks will be better living after a referendum. We are also concerned about invoking words that charge and divide, rather than facilitating at a time when our ship is actually sinking. In fact, I want to say this directly, we are sympathetic to the Government for the pressure it has been under the negotiations of creditors in recent years. We contribute, in other words we understand that he is looking for a way out of this. But by talking about blackmail one after another, the government and SYRIZA executives think they speak a part of the truth and not more than half the truth. Let us be honest, dear and fellow Members: in fact, if someone is borrowing, it is not enough by democratic procedures to decide the amount to be borrowed. He must also allow his lender, the one from whom he will take the money through democratic processes to decide how much he will give him and what terms. I mean, it's like a family. We, Greece, are a family that, through democratic processes, we say that we want to continue financing, to come development packages, to reduce debt - very nice things very democratically - and this family goes to the wider family, to the cousins, to the nephews, to the uncles, to the infantry and others, and tells them: you will then lend us, because we have decided to do so democratically. It's not exactly like that. And I think it is a pity and we underestimate ourselves - and the government more so - if we insist on it. I would like to say that it is very important to understand that the proposal for the referendum is very risky, because if the Europeans do not retreat - and from now on, unfortunately, Mr Varoufakis has not retreat and the Eurogroup has not accepted the extension and continue to speak without us, that is, the pressure, this 'root' - I would like to say to you that whatever the outcome of Sunday is, and if there is a referendum - and not because the President of the Republic will stop it, but there may not be an object, if the proposal of the lenders is not there, how will we vote 'yes' or 'no' on it, that is, we cannot vote on something that the world is not there - if we are saying 'yes', we very much like the proposal of the lenders and we want it with enthusiasingly', we would have had to 'debate' the balances of confidence and sympathy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you know where the button is, Mr. President? Press it! Thank you. And if we were to say 'no', we would go through a very difficult situation, which would start with checks on capital movements, where banks would not have liquidity. And we must not fool ourselves - at least we can be honest, because otherwise we cannot be accountable - we would also have, unfortunately, had things going on - that we are absent - shortcomings in basic species. Just to understand - and to understand - what a country means to play a roll on its future, but not to go out and not to go on as it wanted, I will show you this nice, innocent bill. This marine innocent bill is the biggest bill of all time. It writes over a hundred trillion dollars, forward - back, Zimbabwe. This bill was stopped in 2009, because while the currency was still in the process of being Rhodesia and then Zimbabwe in 1980, with a dollar in Zimbabwe, Rhodesia, then, to $1,5 USD, after three names changes - because there is not only one name for national currency - and after 13 zeros were added, at the end of 2009 they said: nisafi now, transactions will take place either with US dollar or with South Africa rand. I'm not telling you to terrorize. It's things that happen to good people in our day, people who think they're doing the right thing, but they're wrong with them. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are not responsible for the really regrettable point in which the production system and the economy of our country arrived. You are not normally responsible, except for your pieces that had ruled in PASOK or in New Democracy in the past. It is a great pity that you sign your signature in a situation that is very regrettable to close the chapter on Greece's European path. We despair it and we will do everything we can to prevent it. But we need to know that the dangers are too great and at last we need to start talking to each other instead of everyone talking to his audience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u437	According to a consultation with the various representatives of the parties, Ms. Papapeiga, from the Communist Party of Greece, MP and former party leader will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u438	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u439	There was no consultation. When did this happen? The Golden Dawn... (It hasn't been heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u440	You'll talk next, Mr. Pappa. There's been a consultation. Immediately after. Do me a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u441	It was Mr. Pappa's turn to speak. You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u442	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u443	Liars, uh, liars! Come on, you liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u444	First, Mr. Pappa, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u445	Let him talk because she's a lady, but... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u446	The list of names... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u447	You don't have to shout. We've heard a lot of voices today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u448	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u449	There's no need for a yelling competition. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Pappas will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u450	All lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u451	You're always lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u452	Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u453	What kind of consensual... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of whether the SYRIZA Government - ANEL had the right to bring a referendum, or whether in this referendum it touches or approaches constitutional problems. The main problem for us is what the referendum is doing. This is particularly apparent from the question he raises. The question put in the referendum is plan, disorientative and dangerous to the people, not from the point of view of the New Democracy and the other parties. In fact, once again, New Democracy and other parties are wrong when they say that you want the referendum to get Greece out of the Eurozone. And with the terrorism and demagogy of the New Democracy and the other parties, and the way you handle this, you are objectively looking forward to one thing: if it is possible at 99% - you will not, of course, be able to do so to the people at all costs not only in the Eurozone, but at all costs in the European Union. And it is no coincidence that you stop talking about the European Union. You say 'yes' or 'yes' to Europe. Just the fact that Europe is matched by the European Union - I beg your pardon, but what can I say to you? - it shows not just a dogmatism, but a total perception and extremely dangerous. You are showing Europe as the European Union. It is not a legality of the European Union. Europe will also have a European Union of the ten states and fifteen and forty-five - they will now also put in the democracies of the former Soviet Union, they will also put the Arab countries - and there will be without the European Union, the Europe of socialism or the Europe of the path of socialism. Anyway. Why do we say that this question is exactly a dangerous one? Because you don't have the people to choose. We will take part in the referendum if it is decided. But our 'no' in these days before us - and the people know what we say, regardless of whether it agrees with us all - is not commensurate with the 'no' you suggest to the people. The party's parliamentary representative has already tabled a text. Our 'no' is 'no' in the memorandum of institutions, the troika and in the memorandum that you will sign and is 'yes' in the release. If this message finds the way - and there are ways - to express it as a current with alpha or beta dynamics, that will be the best possible pressure that can be made today in a negative power correlation. Our 'no' - we say it again - cannot be summed up with any other 'no'. What are you doing the referendum on this particular question? Because you want to have your hands in the face of the people, sign a memorandum of even longer - it doesn't matter whether it is going to be up to September, it will be extended - which you will see as a fair and decent compromise. Compatibility with the European Union - not to make many analyses now, it is a European capitalist centre, an imperialist centre, say it as you wish - honest and decent does not exist. He's gonna be unlucky and unlucky, he's going and he's done. The compromise is another thing among the social forces, which do not entirely coincide with their interests, to unite on a common framework and to have mutual, say, compromises within the mass movement. And it's another thing to compromise with bankers, industrialists, shipowners, etc., to speak as simple as possible. But I have to tell you that the damage you do to the people is too great. The New Democracy traditionally and PASOK from one point to the next - not at the first moment - were directed to the people with a view to establishing, reproducing, strengthening conservative classical views of defending the civil system, the capitalist path of development of the European Union. You do what PASOK did from one course to the next. With the mark "left", "for the first time left", you eviscerate and alter consciences systematically and diligently. Is there really a world that asks: But the same was the negotiation - in or out of import, does it not matter - that New Democracy and PASOK did with SYRIZA's negotiation? No, it wasn't the same. At least in the forms that we have seen and in the way we have seen, there has been differences. One didn't reveal the pressures, he wouldn't make it to the surface. Everyone's flirting. SYRIZA exaggerated at a point that you often wondered why he acted like this. From the 'go back Merkel' - parentheses, this is wrong English - we made Merkel a friend, but we put the tons up against other people. A lot has been said and so far the tons have risen. First of all, it was not your purpose that the people think. It did not escape the condition of a compromise, but you had a commitment, a popular vote. You do have what you say. The people were also afraid of the New Democracy when it did not close the memorandum and preferred the elections. 'Cause and when he saw that he was taking down the downhill, you had taken it up. On the climb, would you make a compromise on January 27th? It wasn't possible. You should resist, but stateing from morning to night, at all costs in the Eurozone, with the European Union, etc. But if you will allow me, there are other reasons why they are not good. You have had the naivety or even the complications - and I do not say it in the sense that we are usually talking about doing commissions of inquiry to find the complications - that you can make use of Russian, Chinese and American interests not in Greece, in general in the European Union. You've been mocked back, backed up. It is certainly not a question of selling the Aegean land for exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons to the Americans, to the Russians, to the Chinese or to the Europeans. That's not the point. For us, the problem is not the nationality of what will buy or exploit it or get it on rent or on property titles or rent them for thirty or a hundred years. We are against capital in general whether it is Greek or foreign. Capital is capital. Therefore, there you have dared more than New Democracy for various reasons - it is not time for me to analyse them - to play with this case, of course, forgetting that they only offer you their services as a country - a member of the European Union. What can China, Russia and others do to you? They want you just as a country of the European Union and as a country of the Eurozone to use you. Because, after all, the Russian-Turkish pipeline, for example, must go north of the Balkans. The market in Greece is too small to exacerbate their contradictions with Germany and others, for the sake of Greece and the Greek people. So you are playing with fire in an area that is an area that is not a local war, but an area through which a generalised war may erupt. Another lie, I would say, is a disgrace to the expression - which for the left it does not fit, is that elections and referendums express popular sovereignty. Well, then we wouldn't have a problem. And when the elections were taking off New Democracy first, and when they got out of PASOK, it was popular sovereignty. I don't understand. Is it only a popular rule when it's a SYRIZA? That's fine. We're not against the elections. It's a field of struggle. They're expressing a correlation of powers, class powers. They express many aspects of what we call a power correlation and may express a force of the tendency to radicalism and power of the Nazi trend and force of compromise and power of what you want. It's not the fight. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me give you an example in relation to the European Union. Have there been or have not been referendums in the European Union, France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland, and after the referendums were held with 50% and something against the Treaties and decisions of the European Union, have there been referendums again after a year and 51% have become 45%, has it been 40%, has it fallen? Did they respect them? And how did the people change within a year? They terrified them, scared them, manipulated them. This is the electoral process. Manipulation is measured by emancipation. It was all legal. He was not illusioned in these referendums. This has not been denounced and we believe it. Now the deceased doesn't have to vote for the trees, like it used to be, or the candidates eat stones on the head. Now there are very modern methods. Cyprus, Plan Annan: It was right against. But did it remove the risk of partitioning? Oh, no. Egypt, popular uprising: Mubarak in prison to death. Today Mubarak is free, free of death and death is the one who overthrowded him, Morsi, and elections. Look, it's not enough to vote. Because as far as the vote is concerned, the people - a place - can take the pistol and hit at their head, they can hit the marriage of Caraciozis with fire and it can hurt the opponent - not overthrow him, it can't - and be the beginning of a new expulsion. Therefore, the issue is not in itself a referendum. And it may be that the Europeans want it too. Because either 'yes' or 'no' how will it be interpreted by the two blocks that are confronted with each other? 'Yes' to the European Union, 'yes' to NATO, 'yes' to the militarisation of the European Union, 'yes' to the blockades made by the European Union, 'yes' to the White Paper, 'yes' to the Green Paper, 'yes' to the Treaty of Lisbon, 'yes' to the new ones - said Karathanasopoulos, do not repeat them - which are now being prepared, deepening. Whether 'yes' or 'no' the people vote there will be no noticeable difference in content. Where's the difference? Who's the negotiator? The guide is changing with the elections of the national Parliament. The bus on the road doesn't change him. There was no radical overthrow through elections, but there was also some insurrectional procedures, when the people had not come up with this Mubarak - Morsi and see a series of other countries. In any case, if you want to hold a referendum, you raise specific issues. Does the Greek people that Greece has become NATO 'planner'? The various Foreign, Defence and Defence Ministers come out from here and become NATO's 'planner'. It is a "plan" of NATO literally. Except now, although NATO is democratised, beyond the European Union. You might believe that. If you believe that, with your pleasure, but the Greek people need to be seriously concerned about these issues. People's sovereignty, when there are authority and authority - so to say it simply and populously - does not exist. There can't be. It is expressed - and again - a more positive, stronger, better correlation of powers. We'll fight for it. The 'no' of the Greek people who are objectively intriguing him is what we propose. Finally, it is another thing to entrust a government, a power block, to sacrifice us another thing to decide by us, the people - I am not saying closely the JRC - what sacrifices we will deposit on the altar of a struggle that is really not a struggle, but a hard conflict and a match with all the means. It is another thing to empower someone to sacrifice me and another thing to decide as a people - we are not talking as faces - my own sacrifice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mrs. Pappiga. Mr Pappas has the floor on behalf of the People's League - Golden Dawn. Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, I would also like to use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u457	All right, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u458	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have moments of great historical interest, moments crucial to the future of the Greek people and the place. The days reminiscently back in 1974, then, at the time of postpopulation. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u459	Go on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u460	Today, in 2015, this catastrophic cycle is finally closing. In July 1974 the more than 40 years of post-multiple political period of post-multi-population began with a betrayal and a national disaster. Likewise, today, it closes with a betrayal and, unfortunately, with a threatened national disaster. Great questions raise to the Greek people, at least to the thoughtful Greeks, the government's political and tactics on the national issue of monumental dependence. There are rapid developments in this matter. While we started the debate this morning talking about some specific questions that will be asked in the bill that the government wants to bring next Sunday, in the course of the course the information is different. A moment ago, Mr. Varoufakis said that the question could change. He said that there could eventually be a convergence of the proposals of the creditors and of the Greek proposals and that the Greek people should be persuaded to decide on a new question and say yes to this convergence. In other words, I fear that we have a referendum, as it will develop until the next Sunday, where the Greek people will be artificially asked by the government to legalise a new memorandum. We shall be in the official position of the government so far and in the question, as has been said in this Chamber, here since this morning. Prime Minister, you bring the proposal of this referendum to the Greek people if it agrees with the proposals of the lenders - with the proposals of the loan sharks, I add - or with the proposals of yours. I answer, because you, obviously, cannot - and you - confess to the truth. Is the Greek people in essence asking, and the real question is this: Do you want to be executed or hanged by us? So, do you choose our own Memorandum of Dependence and Occupation, or the proposal of the Troika Institutions and taboo? Referendum - a trap. Just scales of them. Memorandum and submission in any case. Left memorial. That's the betrayal I've mentioned. This is your move, you are fascinating it with fine words of national pride. You have a great deal of courage to see the 'new left' ones. All of you draw plunder and only in listening to the word "national", "Greek race", "Greek Army". Why such hypocrisy, why such cheap propaganda lies? You on the pink left of gay pride are now turning it into the national pride? Prime Minister and gentlemen of the government, in spite of our positive response to the question of holding the referendum, we must stress that we fear that this process is taking place within the framework of which people inside and outside. A procedure which the Prime Minister himself wishes and is taking place in his knowledge, is now taking place in a dominant position as Prime Minister of the country or with his criminal ignorance, leading to developments that Europe's patrons want, that is to say, the German prefectures? Just two days ago, through the newspaper "FYROM", in our article we wrote features "They are setting a stalemate deadlock with a referendum to enforce the Memorandum on the basis of the lesser evil". This is the threatened national disaster that I mentioned. In support of this political assessment and placement I refer to the position of Mr Panos Kammenos, who said this morning: "If the lenders accept the Greek proposal, they all change and withdraw the referendum." In other words, the memorial tone of the referendum, a memorandum with a Greek proposal, a memorandum with a referendum. Greek people always be easy to trust and always betray! We Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn, in any case, say 'no' to the question of the referendum, as this is the case, but at the same time we draw attention and call for the Greek people to be alert to your final result and intentions. SYRIZA was voted on by the Greek people, who, to his great majority, was convinced by his announcements and political speech, which - I recall - ended, by election, always that "the memorandum will be abolished with an article". Here, in this Chamber, Members of the SYRIZA - the government majority, that is - immediately after last January's elections celebrated and said that 'these were elections - a referendum'. And while you took the mandate and acquired a comfortable parliamentary majority - the help of the ANELs, of course - to keep your word and to abolish the memorandum with an article, you betrayed the expectations of the Greeks, the expectations of your voters and flew to the heart of the unusables your programme, the programme of Thessaloniki. You lost - and this is the very important - five precious months by smiling at Merkel, Juncker and the others by making joys, hugs and kisses. You have not used this valuable time to prepare the country in a real programme of rehabilitation, reconstruction and recreation of national production. Instead of abolishing the Memorandum, you finally brought in the new, left memorial. This is the case: you put a vendor and a tombstone in your homeland, on your own proposal, following the steps of the Samara Memorandum Nines and the inappropriate companions, these neoliberal rags, those called 'we are in Europe'. The core of your policy has remained exactly the same core as that of the Mercelian Right. The e-mails and the substance remained the same, either by right or by "for the first time left". From e-mail Hardouvelis we went to the e-mail Baroufakis. Your Government Representative said last night "The negotiation never stops", in an absolute conclusion with Minister Varoufakis, who promised the Institutions and the International Monetary Fund "We will pay you to the Penalty". Ladies and gentlemen, we Greek nationalists, us who live in Greece, who insist on Greece state that we have no confidence in you left-wing and right-wing citizens, all of them because of our misery, the misery of the Greek people. We have no confidence in you in the democratic arch, in you the pillars of dissolution and betrayal transformation. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, because of you, the country lost five precious months. Let me remind you that we would already be spending the fifth month without a memorandum. Yes, with sweeping changes in Greek society. Yes, with pain, with tears, with misery, possibly with another currency, but with prospects of growth, with a view to national pride, with a view to national independence. Winston Churchill promised his people "water, tears, sacrifices and blood" during his first speech as Prime Minister at the beginning of World War II and came out as a winner. What are you doing? Instead of a break, instead of denouncing the memorandum and deleting the debt, instead of declaring the war on the intact markets, instead of even for a moment catching the junk and the duoul, as you were saying, you have followed the way of George Papandreou. And I mean the former Prime Minister, at whose father's poster Mr. Tsipras was photographed. As Papandreou offered fruitfruits promises to the Greek people with "there are" and finally tied the country with the memorandum - he tied it to the English Law and the concession of national sovereignty - so you made the same promises with the abolition of the memorandum, but holding the memorandum - which you would allegedly abolish - by prolonging it and promising your proposal now, in essence a new memorandum. And of course it continues to remain in force and the assignment of national sovereignty and English law. The memorandum is still in existence and according to your statements and intentions, it will continue to exist with your "left" assistance following the Right. You are, unfortunately, forming an explosive and nationally dangerous mixture, ladies and gentlemen. I mean, that is, the combination of a memorandum and the unacceptable legislation you bring, such as that for the provision of nationality to foreign invaders. You continue to remain relentless viewers of developments. Our rapporteur, Mr Cassidyris, has given you the elements of our political planning this morning and has rightly mentioned the question of demarcation and proclamation of the Greek EEZ and our national wealth. Except you, like the previous ones, have any development plan fixed. Not an EEZ, but an EEZ is proclaiming the whole country, a special economic zone, an endless debt colony and a huge immigration and reception camp, for the sake of the security of your partners in the European North. Finally, as with the proposal for a referendum by George Papandreou, unfavorable political developments have taken place for the Greek people, I am sorry to see that, in today's case, they are following unfavorable political developments, developments in possession, abuse and depletion of the Greek people. The memorial "symbols", the memorial "gyps", Samaras, Venizelos, Theodorakis, and caradokon. Ladies and gentlemen, “we are vertically opposed to the memorial, the tombstone of the nation. To invest in his homeland or to own property has become a great sin. There is no political will to control the tax fighters. Dismissals in the public sector are essentially a punishment from the Troika, since they will not benefit. We cannot seek economic recovery by overtaxing citizens. Greece is not European. Europe was once Greek. It is now a loan-to-currency Europe. Everyone purifies Golden Dawn. But the mind is free. We are Greek nationalists and we are proud of it. Say a large 'no' to the taboo Europe. Better drachma than subjection." Speech by the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn in July 2013. For Greek, words full of truth, words dangerous to the political and economic establishment of the country. For a dangerous word about the criminal gang of the bourgeois Right of the Memorandum. Two months later, the "para" Samaras, Treasury, Athanasios, Doyakus and others to release the persecutions against the nationalist movement, against the Chief, his MPs and with a confessed goal to take us to 2%. They failed. The people have defeated and shown us a third political force, a force which is present in political developments, any political developments. We are present and ready, strong and determined for new people and national struggles. To conclude, I would like once again to stress, clearly clarifying the Greek and genuine patriotic positions of the Golden Dawn movement, and to tell you that we insist on the words of July 2013, without computing any price, no costs, no persecution, murders, without counting on the methodical terrorism of the state and the para-state. We say 'no' to the Europe of taco-sculptures and decline, 'no' to the dictatorship of banks and media, 'no' to the junta of the memorandum, 'no' to Eurolanguage. We say, outrageously, nationalistic, 'yes' to national independence, 'yes' to popular sovereignty. My dear, now Golden Dawn and national resistance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after five years of hard memorandum, after five years of Greece has entered the support mechanisms in violation of every European treaty, we are here today, in the presence of the Greek people, in order to give the Greek people the floor to decide on tomorrow. The Greek Government, the government elected on 25 January, with the people's mandate to end the time of the memorials, has worked hard for five months to find a solution within Europe of the nations - states, within the Europe of democracy, within the European Union of equals - Europe where Constantine Karamanlis put Greece, discussing and trying - even in breach of his mandate - to compromise, to go to tomorrow. On the institutional side, the answer was an absolute fascism, a Scottish shower game, a game that has been culminated in the last three days when the Prime Minister himself has taken the talks in Brussels. I was with him for three whole 24 hours, along with the technical committees, the Minister of Finance and the Ministers, which were the negotiating team. I was with him when we decided to move on to proposals that could find an average solution. These proposals have reached their solution for three whole 24 hours. Of course, we have seen Mr Shoeble entering the Eurogroup room, saying that we are very close and that the differences we have made will not allow a solution to be found. We were together when Mrs Merkel and Mr. Holland called by saying "Tomorrow we will agree and as soon as possible to close before Monday, before Tuesday". But I was with him, when after two hours or three hours in the middle of the night, just after these statements, the proposals came, which, in fact, said: 'We do not want any compromise with Greece. We want to subdue, humiliate this people. We want to kneel you, we want to prove that this is not a Europe of nations - states, but a Europe of German sovereignty. You have to understand, we were told who's in charge. And while we were negotiating VAT on the islands, telling them that they would not live on these islands, if their right to have 30% less VAT than metropolitan Greece was reduced, the answer came after acceptance was that we would pay 23% to housing, to the night, to the feeding, to whatever is and does not exist. When we told them that the islands of Europe have 3% VAT respectively, Ibiza, Corsica, the other islands, the answer was: We do not care. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] I was with him until the last moment we tried to leave a window to find a solution with the Greek proposal. The answer was a great 'no', which was a political decision to impoverish an entire nation, to humiliate not a government but a whole people. It was precisely these sixteen pages for which the Greek people are invited to decide whether to agree or to reject. These sixteen pages, ladies and gentlemen, constitute the tombstone of the Greek nation, which is the end of the Greek economy, are essentially the epilogue of an entire and long history of a democracy. If you see a page on page, you will find that on page 6 you are actually asking for the abolition of supplementary pensions, you are asking for the abolition of the CSCE, for the impoverishment of the Greeks who receive an aid, so that they can survive. Turns to the next page on page 8 and sees that what's left of agricultural production has to be over. No privilege for farmers. Heavy taxation for those who still cultivate the land in this place that has lost its primary production. We continue on page 9, where the total crime is being committed, which I shall speak about. Reduction of military expenditure by EUR 400 million, with a targeted package of actions, including reduction of staff and supplies. He goes further: Heavy property tax. Be careful, increase the share of capacity tax and abolish Greek tax provisions for the State of shipping, the only sector that Greece is the world's leading. Ladies and gentlemen, these sixteen pages, if decided by the Greek people to be approved, will be the end of the existence, even of Greece itself as a nation - state. And this is what the Greek people are asking to answer on 5 July. I have a responsibility, as Minister of National Defence, and not as Head of a party, which from the very first moment it was born in here, has resisted these Memorandum Policies. And as Minister of National Defence, I will speak. I will speak on behalf of our Armed Forces and tell you with great responsibility that the reduction of 400 million in the budget of the National Defence - 550 million for 2016 - means total disarmament of the country! Not a single plane will rise to intercept in the Aegean Sea the illegal entry of Turkish aircraft. Not a single ship will be able to move to the Aegean to prevent Turkey's provoking, which, with seventy-two ships two weeks ago, reached Gia. Not even our naval obligations can be met. Nor can we pay the staff themselves. We are being asked to reduce staff by 20%. Do you know who's gonna get fired? The PDOs, the five-year-olds, the officers, the young children will be fired. There's going to be an old army left. Four days ago, with the President of the Hellenic Republic, at the School of Hope, we swore the new Hopes and said in their oath: "To defend with faith and devotion, until the last ranid of my blood, the Flags. Let me not give up on them, nor let me ever leave them." Ladies and gentlemen, we are being asked to abandon the flags! We are being asked to abandon our national sovereignty!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u463	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u464	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u465	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u466	They're asking us to suffer the country. That's what they're asking us to do. That's exactly what they're asking us to do. They are asking us to stop protecting our national sovereignty and territorial sovereignty. They're asking us to disarm Greece. Who can decide that? What party? What politician, who MP, what minister? What citizen? Nobody. No one can decide that. When a military officer takes over to serve the country or a politician to serve the Ministry of National Defence, he repeats the oath of the teenager. "And I deliver the country, and I do not as much as accept it." Ladies and gentlemen, if the creditors' mandate is passed, the country is not protected. Obligation of each Minister of National Defence, when he delivers his work, is to deliver the same homeland at all. Not even a millimeter! Otherwise, he and the general and the soldier must jump from the Acropolis. When they ask us to abolish our national defence, they ask us to abolish Greece itself. And that is neither on the left nor on the right. It's all about us. It concerns the children of the Greeks, our children, who will go tomorrow to swear to serve their nine-month term. But it also concerns the Armed Forces, the Greek Officers, the Officers, the Defence Officers, the Hopeful, the Icarus. It is about the Naval Testimonies, about our history, about the protection of our 'is'. So who's gonna decide about this? I heard here, from all sides, nice words. I have heard them talk about Europe, to which we should remain at any cost. I wonder if any cost, even if that's the way the question came, is subtracting the flags? For Europe, to which Constantine Karamanlis and Ziskar D' Estten put us with the EEC, was the equal Europe. It was Europe, where the small and weak states had exactly the same voice as the great and the powerful. The Europe of democracy, the Europe of the protection of human rights, the Europe of equality. This Europe is going to be abolished. And if this referendum is a referendum that the Greek people ask about, it is a referendum that concerns all of Europe. Will the plans of Shoeble and the International Monetary Fund, which want the nations - states to be abolished, which want to lose national sovereignty? Who organized it? Why are you silenced, colleagues in the New Democracy? We were twenty-two years together. Did you see the murder plan? Did you see the result of the prosecutor, who clearly showed that the former Prime Minister was blackmailed because of his choice to agree with Russia in the pipeline? Why are we all silent when a former Prime Minister was threatened? Do we not understand what the order of things wants to be? The new order of things described by the Orthodox Fathers? The new order of things that no longer wants values and principles, the new order of things that does not want flags, which I do not want to believe. He just wants globalisation, denial of everyone. Mrs. Bakoyannis laughs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u467	I'm crying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u468	I've heard the Lord. I remember when we were looking to find Samaras in Citibank, if he "did" them for Spicilides and Asturias. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] But you forget that. Now applaud and rejoice about the man who betrayed your resignation. That's the truth! You made New Democracy defend PASOK, even George Papandreou, his friend Mr. Rhodou, who was the one who participated in the murder plan of the former Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this place has gone through great suffering. They really need changes in public administration, they need changes in bureaucracy, they need changes in corruption, but who was it that nurtured corruption and complexity? I have the answer from the CDC investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-five million euros have been given to journalists, either directly or through offshore companies, not to promote flu or vaccines, but to be'strengths' against those who went against the new order of things and the instructions given by the lenders. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] I was taken by a photographer a while ago, and a site took it out with my talks with the Prime Minister, like we said nothing. The sms -- it says -- we traded. Do you know how much this journalist took to write in Parliament and in the European Parliament about vaccines from CEDEFOP? Four hundred forty thousand euros in five years! Who signed them? Why did they give it to them? Where and how far offshore got four hundred? I ask the financial prosecutor tomorrow morning to enter CEDEFOP and take all the black money traffic to make the channels come out today and threaten the Greek people and say to him, "Do it yourself, bank run, drop the ATMs, dissolve the Greek banks, lead the Greek people to panic, make the slave to the lenders and those who come to destroy our country!" That's the truth. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] Who were you grabbing, dudes, and where were you grabbing them? You will also tell me: 'What have you done as a government?' We're late because we had to take care of it from the start. We were going to do what I did, when I arrived in the unprecedented and went to negotiate the defence of the country that asked me to do two hundred and then four hundred million. I have therefore collected 154 APM citizens' names, which, by an indicative record, were sent to their affairs to increase property in the DU. Do you know who they are? They are people surnamed, some doctors, some lawyers, farmers with 12 and a half million, but there is a MP with five and a half million euros in it, who accidentally left the Independent Greeks in 2013 and then acquired them. Why wasn't that taxed? Because the government just made a mistake: it did not replace the General Secretary of Income in order to arrest them tomorrow morning. From now on, we have a duty to be right, to fight against the blackmail that we accept and to remember that in this place, those who fought for the country, many times paid for it. Kolokotronis in 1838 in a monumental speech in Pynka he said: "When we decided to make the Revolution we were neither collected nor how many of us were, nor that we had any chariots nor that the Turks had put up the castles and towns, nor any of the guardians told us "Where to go here to fight with barbaric vases," but as a rain fell to all of us the desire of our freedom, both clergy and prefects and captains and well-trained and merchants, small and large, we all agreed to this cause and made the Revolution." We don't think we're gonna make a violent revolution. We must make the peaceful revolution of the Greek people, the calm revolution of the nation! To unite colleagues, wherever we are, from the left, from the centre, from the right and from the right and go like a national voice and say to them: 'Here we are done. This is the possibility of the Greek people." [[Applause from the ANE wing]] The Greek can't accept swinging his finger. He won't accept threatening to shut down the banks. You know, we could take other measures. If we were to veto as a government in any decision of the European Union, we could have blocked any decision. We tried, with the Prime Minister first, to find a compromise. But know that if they take it to the wild, and if they go to blackmail the Greek people, they will find us all together. [[Applause from the ANE wing]] They will find us united against Greek women and Greeks trying to guide a referendum in which the country will surrender. These are the last hours of our country, the last hours we have to unite. A moment ago, the Prime Minister spoke to President Merkel and President Olad and told them that there was democracy in this place for four centuries. And this democracy cannot be blackmailed. For twenty - three centuries in this land, whoever dared to threaten the nation and the dignity of the Greeks lost. Well, they're gonna lose, too. In a united way, we will proceed tomorrow, in order to prove that Greece is not blackmailing, Greece does not kneel, Greece is not surrendering. The Greeks join and win!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u469	Thank you to the Minister of National Defence and President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Pano Kammenos. Because there have been statements suggesting that Parliament should operate in fear of developments that are being emanating from the Eurogroup, let me, as President of the House, say that Parliament in Greece, a European country, decides democratically and freely, as is the case with the traditions of our country, as well as our European country, and as it is with Members of Parliament who have free and democratic conscience. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Nikos Michaloliakos, has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u470	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my morning statement on television I was clear, saying that the Golden Dawn will remain consistent in its anti-memorandum line. And within the framework of this line and its political consistency - because we say no more election after the elections - yes, we will agree to a referendum, which we believe the Greek people will reject this imperial and blackmail proposal by Europeans. But at this point I would like to stress that, following yesterday's news releases, I heard the political leaders were informed. I wasn't informed by anyone. Is that a democracy? The Republic of a la carte? Ladies and gentlemen, we really have a strange moment and do not hide behind our finger. Yeah, there's the tails behind the ATMs. This is a fact. As it is also true that last week, since Monday, many people's phones had been broken throughout Greece and Athens in particular, saying: "Get the money out of the banks, because on Friday the banks will be closed". You don't know that? You all know it! What underground forces are, then, moving in this place? Who governs this place? Are you sure you are ruling this place, or are there powers, which machine signs and monsters? We also see tails in supermarkets. They reminded me of my teenage age, in 1974, when Greek birds, wearing the honored uniform of the Greek soldier, died in Cyprus for Greece and some people actually made tails to get macaroni and milk in supermarkets. And I lived that thing. Bad advisor, fear! And it is worth remembering Andreas Calvos in his fourth vein, where he says: "Those who are the hefty hand of fear feel, let them have a yoke of bondage, shall freedom be virtue and bold." Therefore, against the terrorisation of tails in ATMs and supermarkets, the Greeks with a high degree of attitude should resist these proposals, which actually mark key, directly, this same, national character of our state and the freedom of the Nation of the Greeks. The fact is that the government's specific proposal for the referendum refers to one particular thing. It refers to a specific proposal, which has also been distributed to us, a proposal of EUR 11 billion, a proposal of recognised material, which will not only help to develop Greece, but will further deepen our national economy. There was, of course, a proposal from the Government of the 8 billion, which is also unacceptable to us. However, it is not an argument to say that, because there is no proposal in the referendum to vote against it, we will not vote against the proposal from the Troika, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Union. This, not to say clearly 'yes' or 'no', reminds old Greek film and the famous'string through the engagement'. That is because it is not guaranteed that 'no' in this proposal means 'no' in the government proposals, so we are not voting on it. We say 'no' to this European Union proposal and we are in favour of the referendum. But at this point, I would like you to consider and make a case of work. Let's go back five years and a few months, when George Papandreou, then Prime Minister of Greece, came out, with a devastating 43% and put us in the Memorandum and the International Monetary Fund. Before this announcement was made, a motion for a referendum had been put forward. Do you think, if this referendum had been held then, and the Greek people had voted against Greece entering the memorandum, how different would Greece's fate be? I am not entitled, of course, to the political George Papandreou and his plans, and above all, what is known today, to put the International Monetary Fund as a whole. But it is truly tragic that a referendum should be held on a proposal from the International Monetary Fund. This could be about a colony, it could be about a state - caricature and not a free nation, with a state history of almost two hundred years. The fact is that Greece, as a state, in its two hundred years of free life has been borrowed many times. Even during the War of Independence, when the first loan of the fight was made by English loan sharks, they asked for the national lands in Corinthia and Achaia, where the raisin was, the hard export product of Greece, to be guaranteed. And they even refused then. Now, since we have borrowed for two hundred years with Greek law, we have the wonderful memorials and loan contracts have been done with English law and the assignment of national sovereignty. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing those who belong to the majority - you have a duty, you are committed to denounce the memos. You're in debt. I have already heard Mr Voutsi, in his denology, who said that in the next few decades the memorials should not exist, as the New Democracy wants. You have given no guarantee to the Greek people until now that the memos will cease to exist. And the extension, which you took in February, was a memorandum. And any agreement, which you will make, if it does not contain the termination of the terms of the loan contract, will be nationally unacceptable. With English law, Greece as a debt colony must not exist. We also had, on behalf of a New Democracy speaker and an appeal to the blue flag, with the stars of the European Union, which exists in the House. I do not know that a Greek has died for this flag. All I know is that with this flag some people minted fat, some took funds endlessly, which became villas and swimming pools. They have reached the point of hanging this flag, which is nothing but a commercial contract, in the monument of the Unknown Soldier, along with the slogan "Measure Europe". No, we don't live in Europe. We are Europe! Europe is Greek and not Europe! How did we get here? Greece's entry into the European Union was made in terms of heterogeneous. We were given money back to them through consumption, but then they had no sensitivity to control our budgets, then they were not bothered by the civil servants, not by the misery and wastes that were made in public works. Why? Because they took them from their own companies. They were plundering us properly, and now they remembered they had to end with us. Golden Dawn, as a nationalist party, as a folk party, can only be in favour of the referendum and certainly against the proposal of loan sharks. The referendum, however, which you announced, has already taken place. It was January 25th, in the elections. The people then voted 'not in the memoranda'. That's what you had to do in the first place. You've wasted valuable time. Slowly late than never! We, in all cases, will continue on the same line as in 2010, against every memorial, against English law, against agreements that make our homeland a debt colony, against the colonialism of loan sharks. Golden Dawn for a new Greece! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u471	Thank you. The Minister for Health, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u472	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at a similar difficult time for the country, a judge who, in the memory of a judiciary, is one of the diamonds that went through this space, the late Delaroport, had announced: who are these dark powers that undermine the future of this country? It is a difficult moment, ladies and gentlemen, and today. Greece has chosen, by decision of the then Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis, to participate in European developments. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has consciously chosen this path, knowing of the difficulties, but also in the prospect of a Europe of democracy, a Europe of social and labour culture, a Europe of legal culture, a Europe that is built on the principles of equality, a Europe that combats inequalities and discrimination and builds a future that sends a message to the whole world that people must fight for their dignity. So one question arises: Is this referendum threatening the country's exit from Europe? Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional legislature wisely conceived the idea of establishing referendums and everyone, speaking from time to time, admits that we have not taken advantage, as far as we should, of the choice of referendums on critical issues relating to society. So the current government was at a difficult time when after a five-month, painful negotiation effort faced the conduct of lenders, which led to a dead end, before which it had to choose either the full submission or the choice of the referendum. The Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, on 25 January, gave the mandate of governance and negotiation within Europe and within the euro. You have therefore invoked us five months that we should not go into a break, but we must negotiate within the euro. And the choice of the referendum is part of the negotiation, it is a democratic process and a completely democratic right of the Greek people. Terrorism began, therefore: 'No, it is not part of the negotiation, but back to your mind is the return to the drachma and exit from the euro'. Ladies and gentlemen, those who know how the euro has been built, those who know the European Treaties avoid making such misinterpretations, since we all know that the euro has been built with a technology that does not allow Member States to leave either the European Union or the euro. We must therefore all realize that no intention of this kind existed in the government's thoughts. The government, ladies and gentlemen, has depleted all the margins, exceeded its programme commitments to find a common place. And you yourself have denounced it many times these days that it has made very great concessions. Today you come back and give her up. You absolve her because she dared to say 'no' to a project that really demolishes the last remains of the social state. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know in this place that productive activity focuses on certain areas. One of these areas is tourism. And yet, while creditors know that the tourist season is in progress, and they know how pushy competition from neighbouring countries is because of the favourable tax regime in terms of VAT in the tourism sector, they require high VAT. Is tourism affected or not affected, its great industry, as we all confess? We are told, ladies and gentlemen, that measures must be taken against productive sectors of the Greek economy such as medicine, a healthy industry, a comparative advantage for Greek production activities. Have you read the measures they want to adopt, to see what will happen in this area too? This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, with the primary sector of the economy. So there are all these requirements which, once again, lead to the same result of the last five years, ladies and gentlemen. For the measures taken over the last five years, one must accept that they have started with the best intentions, with the belief that they will be the weakest Greek economy. Can anyone say today that these measures have led to a result? I can hear you, ladies and gentlemen, very relentlessly forsake the government, forsake the Prime Minister. Honestly, I feel soul pain because I expected to hear public men serving the nation and the country, have a calm and sober position. This position should first be aimed at the conduct of lenders. Because, if you have seen in the last few days that the government and the Prime Minister have not shown intent, they have not given any space, they have not made any excesses in order to find a common place, you would have the absolute right to exercise the hardest criticism. But even in the case of such criticism, patriotic duty requires everyone and at least each to take a stand against the authoritarian imposition of measures that demolish and the last remnants of the social state in this place. Ladies and gentlemen, a lady sent me a message a moment ago on my phone. My partner read it to me. He says to me: 'It is the first time that we have seen a government making such an honest effort and instead of opposition beside it, it is all about the arguments of lenders'. The lenders will try to say that the government's aim is to get Greece out of the euro. It will not come out, ladies and gentlemen, from the euro and from Europe, because we have all built Europe together, and we claim a Europe of democracy and solidarity. We want a Europe that really defends human dignity. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that with these policies that you have been implementing in Greece in recent years, there was a way out? Did you defend with all these measures the dignity of the people, when there are two and a half million people without insurance? And can today's Europe, the European leaders, be proud of this situation of the homeless, the poor, the unsafe, the problems that exist in all the sensitive areas of social life? Can anyone be proud, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that more than 62% of the young children in the country, educated children who sat in the shrubs and worked, who were labored, who studied, are in despair? I met President Schultz a few days ago. So he told me, in a very intense way, that what people say about cutting pensions, increasing VAT, cannot be accepted. Read these proposals all these days, when they were understood, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the CSCE. The pensions in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, are a protection net, because every family who has a pension protects two, three and four unemployed. How, then, is it possible for a government and an opposition, which, in its vast majority, comes from the same popular middle-size social strata, to accept these conditions and these impositions? Ladies and gentlemen, there are some rumours on the Internet about the lack of drugs. The Department of Health is monitoring this whole process. There is no problem, but there is no problem, and we firmly assure the Greek people that there will be no problem in the field of drugs. I would also like to refer to another issue relating to 'yes' and 'no'. So we are asked if the Greek people will vote 'yes', what will the government's position be? If the Greek people vote 'yes', it is a new reality, which we both owe as government and as Opposition to manage with the same seriousness. So the same thing if the Greek people vote 'no'. We must all find a common place together on how to proceed with the negotiation process in order to make a way out of this problem which is stirring up the country. Here, therefore, we all need maturity and sobering and understanding. We must not lead things to acidity this week. We're no less patriots and more patriots. We all have the same anxiety to work for this place. How can we have different approaches? This is also the beauty of democracy, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that in this sacred space, we are people who believe in parliamentary democracy, we believe in the values of democracy, we believe in a democracy that works to reduce inequalities in society and increase the protection and care of an anthropocentric state against the weak, against those who have struck the crisis and sent them out of the so-called normal walls of society. We should all work together for social cohesion in this place, so that we can really say at some point that we offered useful services to the Greek people. That is why we must be well aware that if we are to serve the advisability of the contradictions, to gain some political benefits, if we are to highlight the contradictions between the past and the present, we will certainly not work for the future of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli. The President of the Communist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u474	Madam President, can you tell us who has asked for the floor further?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u475	Ladies and gentlemen, finally we must say that mockery has its limits. We have just heard that the Minister said that if the troika, the three institutions, by Tuesday, would change the question and invite the people to vote 'yes'. The "one of the thief, two of the thief, three and his bad day" applies. The five-month ‘stopes’ lead us back to the people's mandate. Of course, it is never wrong to ask the people, to be actively involved. On the contrary, yes. Not only is it not bad, it's good. But who Greek today, which Greek woman, who does he feel like this? What our people and youth feel is that once again they have been deceived. They see their hopes being disproved, they see that both today's co-pilots and yesterday's co-pilots put it false dilemmas, blackmailing dilemmas, intimidating dilemmas, without really harming all those who are to blame for the crisis, the country's catastrophic, unemployment, poverty. And these are the monopolies, the capital - we will not get tired of saying that - the capitalist development path, the European Union, the wolve alliances that are taking place in the country and which have been squandering it for years, without stopping, when with a right, when with a left-wing government mark. The Greek people need to be more decisive than they were until yesterday, on the occasion of the referendum and if they do so, to bronze: no more mockery, no more waiting, no more collapsing now with the Communist Party of Greece. You choose a referendum with the dilemmas of the ruling class, capital, with those questions that either "yes" or "no" the people will be lost. He will continue his slaughter, he will have new losses on his income. You choose the referendum and to get popular reactions, the ever-increasing indignation of the Greek people, which reaches the fundamental question of the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the government choices, the memoranda, their implementing laws and which in the last few days also starts to strengthen those who have voted for you in the popular forces. Where do you dare bring this to the House, not only the proposal of the lenders, who have not yet been able to see it fully - apart from journalistic, of course - but also the proposal of your own, initially of the forty-eight pages, plus the eight additional pages, plus some - I do not know how many - of the previous ones, since you know better than us that you and they also propose barbaric measures, which are not corrected by some ambiguous rounds at the corners. You are mocking our people rawly and challengingly, when you say that with the agreement you have proposed, you ensure that there will be no further reductions in wages, pensions, as anti-grass commitments, increases in unfair taxes, privatizations, increases in the contributions of employees and pensioners lead to new, large losses for already cut-off people's incomes and the remaining rights of the people. And we're not talking about the lenders' package. We refer to your proposal, which has been tabled. We ask you again: The increases in VAT, the most unfair tax, which even the unemployed, who for the food of the people's family - the known macaroni - is increasing ten points, what exactly is it? Is it or is it not a reduction in the income of employees and retired persons? Repayment of HISPIA, the tax with which one pays rent for one's own home, even - even in the previous years - of the solidarity levy, which makes the worker show solidarity with the industrial industry ultimately - why does that also end up - is it or is it not a real income reduction? Privatisation and liberalisation of strategic areas such as ports, airports and others, with negative consequences for both workers in these sectors, but also for those who make use of these services from the people's families in our country, leads or does not lead to a reduction in incomes of employees and pensioners? What is the increase in insurance contributions to workers and pensioners? Isn't it a carabinat reduction? The government's red lines, with its own proposal and not just creditors, as you say in your current proposal and suggestion, have become black mistresses for thousands of insured people, who are increasing the retirement age limits, after any early retirement rights have been abolished, at the same time as the road opens for further reversals of insurance rights through the unification of funds and proportionate studies, which will follow, to give an alibi to new cuts. Reductions in wages and pensions don't leave the table. They are permanently on the table at the negotiating table of government-guaranteed creditors, because the objectives for primary surpluses, the commitments of the European Union and competitiveness are permanent. After all, wage reductions are on the agenda for all private sector enterprises, where individual and business contracts entrenched, reductions that lead to downwards and pensions. The government mocks the people rawly and challengingly when it chews the candy of social justice, because, in its own proposal, the measures are redistributive and carry the burdens to the highest - as it says - layers. It demonstrates the increase of only 3% of the tax on businesses - a tax which has fallen many times in the past, when taxes on the people went up - and the extraordinary contribution to profitable businesses, to hide that the storm in particular from a great increase in VAT, the poor food will eventually be hit by it. And if you want to tax the capital, really put a hand in the pocket, as you say, why do you not abolish the provocative tax exemptions and subsidies? Why, by act of legislative content and other legislative initiatives, did the government give them debts and fines? Why make it easier for them to legitimise undeclared incomes? And you know very well that any extraordinary contribution, apart from being a drop in the ocean of taxes, will be paid one-off, while taxes for the people are here to stay, such as HISPIA, such as the contribution of solidarity from others. Such exceptional contributions to entrepreneurs have also been made by others in the past, such as the Simitis government, for example, to catch up with the objectives of EMU. These are well-known things. And, of course, the capital was not annoyed, because it knew that it would benefit from EMU, as it did at the end of the day. And this extraordinary contribution by the large businessmen have the potential in various ways to absorb it, to transfer it to workers either by reductions in wages or by increases in the products they produce. They know that they will get it back multiples - there they aim - since big businesses will be the ones that will benefit from the various development packages negotiated by the government. That is why the large capital has every reason, of course, to press for the closure of a new government-guarantee agreement. Of course, he's also pushing whatever he doesn't like from this deal. But, finally, in this respect, only the working class, our people, is constantly paying for sadness. The people must say - we say - a great 'no' and the proposals for the new agreement proposed by the three institutions, but also in the proposals for an agreement proposed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. The 'no' campus proposed by the government is 'yes' to the agreement - plundering for the people - is equivalent to 'yes' to 'yes' in the anti-grass Memorandum of Tsipras, 'yes' to the escalation of the anti-grass attack against employees, self-employed, professionals, farmers, bio-populationists and others. The measures proposed and those and others are to be added to the approximately five hundred implementing laws which remain in force, at the government's payment position in hospitals, universities and social services, to the forced internal lending of the funds available to insurance institutions, public bodies and bodies. Neither one or the other is a sustainable agreement, which gives a solution to the Greek problem, as you say, nor is it simply a disgraceful but necessary compromise, for which you are supposed to be fighting five months as a government. The 'no' of the government is a fraud, for the people to say 'yes' in their own anti-population policy. It is fraudulent to claim that there can be a genuine Europe of peoples, as long as this is a Europe of capital. The contradictions within the European Union and the Eurozone are not to become this European Union of the peoples, but to make its policy more uniform at the expense of the people. That is why the procedures for the completion of monetary and economic union in the Eurozone have also been officially launched, which marks the further strengthening of the budgetary pact, supervisory controls, the upgraded memoranda, which will apply throughout the entire wolf alliance and, indeed, with special clauses for the states that are subject to support mechanisms such as Greece. The well-known 'blue' of European Union staff, Juncker, Tusk, Dieselblum, Draghi, Schultz, - I don't know, I can forget, I can forget that no one - prepare a new 'white book' in the spring of 2017, which will include anti-grass restructuring over a decade. This explains why the European Union is strengthening the measures and interventions provided for in the European Semester, so that the new framework becomes more binding on economic policy. It goes on to the European Financial Council, which will automatically dictate measures to meet the anti-grassroots objectives of government budgets. The SYRIZA-ANEL co-government has already submitted to the institutions of the Troika proposal for the establishment of a Greek Financial Council, which will proceed to automatic horizontal reductions in wages, pensions, all state expenditure, subsidies and others, in cases of discrepancies from the anti-Alland objectives. Behind SYRIZA's patriotic krone is today the struggle for all these issues between Germany, the International Monetary Fund, the United States of America, in parts of the urban order of these countries for the future of the euro area and Greece's position in it. SYRIZA, in an election, played with the agony of our people and concentrated on some immediate measures that would not, of course, pay big capital, the groups, but the rest of the workers, on the logic of 'the poor to pay for the poorest' and which would barely relieve extreme poverty. Eventually, this is not going to happen either. In fact, the government accedes to the extortionist dilemmas formerly said by the New Democracy, the PASOK. And SYRIZA has a great responsibility, because today he enables the New Democracy to appear justified for its policy over the past few years, which has brought us here and come out from above. Even greater is the responsibility of SYRIZA, because while she was subject to extortion, she accepted the proposals of lenders, submitting one after another her anti-grass proposals. At the same time he called on the people to support it, in order to entangle people who are starting to think more radically, people who are indignant with the European Union: those who call for a'sacrifice base in the European Union', and those who have the deceptive goal of staying in the European Union and changing it. They're trying to imprison an entire people in their common imperialist home. With the referendum, they are trying to load their new anti-grass proposals on the people and their partners and co-pilots, because, they say, they do not want a break with the European Union. For the people they say that. In fact, Mr Tsipras in his report said, of course, that he would respect the result if the people under the burden of extortionist dilemmas, which they themselves are putting, decides to voluntarily go to the slaughterhouse of the three institutions, as they call it. So, as Prime Minister, he will then sign the barbaric agreement because - supposedly - the people will want it, as the referendum will have expressed? And how will he put his signature on an agreement in which, he says, his government disagrees vertically? How will he implement it? If not, will it go back to parliamentary elections, will the people participate again and say what they think? Why would he vote for him if he says that he will not sign a new agreement, which the people in a referendum - supposedly - will have accepted in this case? It looks a little like a madhouse, of course, but believe me, it's not. That's where inconsistency leads you, but to say ears in the morning and more in the evening. But say to Junker's ear, enjoying with him more in Lagard, or about more, Putin, Merkel and others, and playing games. Only, the toys know them - and better than you - and the ones you want to play with. And they have much more experience than you. We say clearly this: the referendum to see the people as an opportunity to strengthen the people' s challenge in the European Union. The experience itself leads there. It is precisely this dispute that must meet with the anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly - so called - a struggling line proposed by the Communist Party of Greece, in the face of the European Union to reject the very capitalist development path, which goes hand in hand with the participation of the country in transnational imperialist alliances, always on the basis of unequal relations between states that are unequal economic, military and development. Now, the people, in particular those who have been able to distract themselves from the mobs of old bipartisanism and have been temporarily trapped in their Syrian version, have the opportunity to oppose their great power, which they have not used - we believe - until now, who have put it on second fate, in the hope that through the elections, such as those of the previous Gentiles, they could change radically - or even for the better - their lives. Now, many more people can judge that he correctly warned the JRC and rejected the delusion. The force of the struggles is multiplying and brings some results, only when it develops and evolves, through the experience of the people itself, in a struggle to challenge the power of the monopolies of the European Union. The damage, if you want, that SYRIZA does is not just economic, directly or in the medium term. It is a multifaceted dissolution, because it attempts to stir radical dispositions, every form of radicalism, so that the people do not dare to think - nor today nor tomorrow - that it may have a future outside the walls of the European Union, of this system, but indeed of the same power. We in the JRC are seeing the referendum - and, if it is decided - and as an opportunity to spread our positions beyond the people, to the young people of our country, to highlight the ideological, political confrontation with all forms of urban management, with the current SYRIZA - ANEL Government, to express our broad views and positions on the way out of the negotiations on debt, from the economic or capitalist crisis, from the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, to the benefit of the working class and other people's classes, rather than to save the power of the bourgeoisie, the system of capitalist, its imperialist alliances, such as the European Union, which, in our view, seek all other parties, together with the Government, despite their differences. The JRC is not afraid of any electoral battle, but it also fuels illusions for its results, for the benefit of the real people's interests and needs. We insist that all the other proposals put forward here today are alternatives to the people, ultimately, and not in favour of them. It is confirmed that the JRC in its assessment and prediction that SYRIZA could not open up a philosolic road, since it objectively expresses the interests of capital, both local and foreign - even - regardless of the exacerbation of opposition within the Eurozone. Neither elections nor any referendum nor government reshaping by this House can truly guarantee philosophical politics. The position of the JRC, as before the January 2015 elections, is that such a government, such as your own, within the walls, cannot deal with the contradictions inside and outside the euro, with the aim of capitalist competitiveness, without taking immediate action - as provided for by the agreement you are proposing to partners - or indirect measures, for example, in the other case - measures such as depreciation - in bankruptcy, double currency or drachma or by saying, measures against people's labour income. The working people's movement must therefore be reconstructed, counter-attacked for its own interests, directly and in the perspective. On this road, the unique peninsula has the Communist Party of Greece, with which the genuinely concerned, pioneering people's forces of our country, young people and young people can be assembled. Convergence with the JRC on all fronts of wrestling, in all forms, in any political race and in any form of election. The JRC's position is the break with capital, with its power, with the European Union. This will also, of course, result from the will and action of the working people's movement, in a conspiracy with the Communist Party of Greece. The road to conflict and rupture, which includes exiting from the European Union, is a philosophical one, only when it is based on other incentives for production, economy, cost-of-cost-of-cost social needs, i.e. when it is based on social property, the central scientific planning of the economy. [[EP]] Otherwise, it is a simple change of alliances, both short-term or more stable, with the various imperialist centers. This differentiates the position of the JRC than those who are talking about leaving the euro - both within SYRIZA and outside SYRIZA - for a return to the drachma, without overturning these key ownership relationships. In any case, the Communist Party of Greece continues to take the lead in the fight to defend workers, the people, for immediate relief measures, for claiming losses from the crisis, for defending the people's incomes and, above all, in the fact that this common fight of workers and other forces, the people's alliance, should be directed towards the overall break-up and release by the European Union, the power of capital, the monopolistic groups with the working class, our people in power. Our position on the question of referendum is negative. What we are asking the Greek people, and we ask them as a question that needs to be answered clearly, is 'yes' or 'no' - we say 'no' - in the proposals for an agreement between both the three institutions and the Greek Government 'yes' to liberate from the European Union. We reject the other proposals of both the Ministerial Council, which says 'no' only to the proposal of the partners and put forward its own proposal in substance, but we reject the proposals of other anti-population forces, which say 'yes' to the proposal with the lenders' agreement and to the proposal for a government agreement - they would obviously not object if measures equivalent to those which were going a little below - precisely because we believe they want to hold the people incapacitated, or else, to be thrown in the face of the fact that he was also called upon to vote on the final seal in the developments, so that the poet might be confirmed again: 'Let me make it easy and always betray'. We also call on all of us from this step and all to eliminate fatalism, 'nothing happens', 'less evil', which is always evolving, as we see, into greater evil after all. It must be said that our people are not picking out a memorandum, we say 'no', and the proposal of creditors and the government's proposal that converging to the new slaughter of the people, that the people should say 'yes' to the abolition of memoranda and all the anti-grass laws, that they should say 'yes' to the break with the European Union, their capital, their power, their 'yes' to liberation, socialisation and the unilateral deletion of debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u476	Thank you to the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u477	Please, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u478	I would like to clarify why, although completely clarified in the morning, it is coming back. The question of the referendum, as is shaped in the decision and proposal of the Ministerial Council and on the agenda of today's debate, is whether the Greek people approve or reject the ultimatum made to the Greek Government on 25 June 2015 and the content of this ultimatum. It is not a question of changing the question in the direction of calling on the people to adopt another document, so let no confusion arise in what is very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u479	Are you referring to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u480	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u481	Did you answer me right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u482	I also answered what you and that said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u483	No, then explain to your Minister, your government minister, why you're talking as the government's representative right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Varoufakis said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u485	I am currently speaking as President of the House about the referendum procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u486	The Treasury Minister outside the Eurogroup made an official position and said, "If the partners change according to what we proposed...", which Diaselblum said before, "it is not take it or lead it, but we are discussing it anyway, we did not say in Greece." We don't know if he was clear, or he knew what he was talking about. However, if Mr Varoufakis did not know what he was saying, as you are telling us here in the House, to go forsake him and not answer me as a representative of a political party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u487	Mr President, what I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u488	I would ask you very much not to do this again. If other colleagues in this House tolerate it, they are welcome to tolerate it. But I don't think so. Many comments are constantly being heard. Don't do that again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, I am speaking to the whole House, to the House, because the House and each Member and each Member are called upon to vote. So what we are called on to vote on and must be clear and no confusion arises, is what question the Greek people are asked to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u490	Then you did not understand what the JRC proposed, which I proposed in Parliament's plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u491	You have made a proposal to amend the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u492	The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure speak in particular. They say what's predicted. It is proposed by the House. You will not come here to the Greek Parliament to tell us 'take it or let it'!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u493	On the contrary. To show confidence in the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u494	So the proposal is being formulated here. We understood very well what you proposed, but we tell you that you are mocking the Greek people again. That's what we say very clearly. You can disagree with this view, but that is the view of the JRC and the view of a large portion today of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u495	Have the courage to suggest to the Greek people that they say 'no', as the government does. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Friend, has the floor. Subsequently, the Parliamentary Representative of PASOK and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we were informed that some time ago, this afternoon, the Eurogroup decided to reject the Greek Government's request for a short extension of the programme in order to hold the referendum without creating a suffocating financial and political framework in Greece. This Eurogroup decision obviously amounts to revenge against democracy in Greece, namely against democracy in Europe. What is it that the Greek side asked for? He asked for Greek citizens to be able, without blackmailing, without asymmetrical political pressure and threats from outside and within Greece, to proceed with the expression of popular will. Is that a democracy? Is that a perception of the Europe we have? Is it possible to dominate political resentment and an easy opposition here? Does the Eurogroup's decision affect the government, or does it affect democracy in our country and in Europe? It is important that we all answer that question. Because what is being judged today is not the Greek Government, but the pride and dignity of an entire people who claim self-evident: to hear his view as shaped by democratic processes. I repeat that democracy is judged in Greece and in Europe. Today is the blow, and tomorrow in another country, by interests, by the Director of Europe, which is becoming increasingly a director of enforcement and control over Europe's societies. It is a complex that illustrates the crisis of political representation, which creates dangerous situations for Europe's progress. The referendum is a common European practice. In Greece for special reasons related to old-fashionedism for so many years it has been a forbidden practice, although the Constitution foresaw it. The referendum is a process that can fuel, strengthen popular participation, create a wave unlike apathy and delegation. It's a primary expression of popular will. It may be the character of, in other cases, the creation of rival camps, but if we are discussing it does not divide, but it unites the Greek citizens, because it creates a common denominator, with the differences we have, but a common denominator being united towards the creditors. It does not divide micro-groups and with the usual opposition inaction of Greek citizens, but it unites them in a horizon of expression of national pride, national, social and personal dignity of Greeks. We would expect this primary democratic process for all political parties to adopt it. I have here in front of me a statement by Mr Venizelos on 1-11-2011. He then considered the referendum to be "execution and redemption". He considered it an initiative towards conditions, "which are not normal, a matter of responsibility, in order for the Greek people to ratify agreements that will affect the next generations, such as staying in the Eurozone". Mr. Venizelos told him on 1-11-2011. And a few days later, on the plane from Cannes to Athens, he turned it. It is also the professor, the constitutionalist, Mr Venizelos, who, in his writing, writes: "The President of the Republic is obliged to adopt the relevant presidential decree on the referendum, if a Parliament decision has been taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, on a proposal from the Ministerial Council". He is obliged by the President of the Republic, he is not in his discretion. What did Mr Venizelos and the Representatives of the New Democracy say to us today? We were told that Mr Pavlopoulou should about veto, refer back the request, the parliament's referendum decision. And at the edge of his speech Mr. Venizelos spoke of a diversion. This is a diversion, with his own words. Mr Venizelos also says in another book: "The criticality of the national theme, because we are talking about invoking a critical national issue, is a question of political appreciation, which is made by the competent body, namely by the Ministerial Council which proposes by the House, which decides by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. Parliament's decision binds the President of the Republic, with no room for discretion and therefore no disagreement.' The constitutionalist, Mr. Venizelos, has said so. Today, political feasibility leads, unfortunately, to other kinds of decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, what Eurogroup does, what interests it serves, what messages it wants to send, is a matter. The fact that he finds himself here acquainted with ears, that he finds himself willing to join a perpetrator of danger, to return to cold war sermons - even a neo-communist danger, Mr. Mitsotakis spoke earlier - this is a dangerous development for the democracy and the health of our civilisation. It is regrettable that in this perception of risky, which today does not just affect the government - it does not catch up with the government - but is brutally affecting the country's social peace and democratic course, it is also part of this danger that panic practices, and even mobilisations that remind the pots of the Alenten era. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going blindly to a conflict. We have a plan. We are also seeking alliances in Greece. That is why we do not go to party controversy, but we seek, through the referendum, the expression of national consensus. We are seeking alliances both in Europe and in the rest of the world, those which, a previous speaker, Mr Koutsoubas, had almost smashed them. He said there's no Putin or no one, no one, world loneliness. That's not left. The left is a search for internationalism, a search everywhere - both in the small cracks and above - partnerships, fronts. That's what we're looking for. Good, poorly, with less or less success, with passion, that is what we are looking for and that is our obligation to the Greek people today. Looking for a large wave, a wave of international support, practical support, so that our country can actually reintegrate into the eurozone, into the European Union and not be the pariah, as the memorandum became, the policy of austerity and the practices of the debt colony. This is the effort of Greece. I say 'Greek' and not the Greek Government, because it is certain that on Sunday there will be massive participation and a massive reward for this democratic policy for the country's genuine reintegration into the European Union and the euro area. They ask us: What will happen Monday after the referendum? We answer them: What will happen at night with the referendum? The greater the popular participation in the referendum, the greater the bronze is the "no" in what creditors say, the stronger the negotiating force of Greece will be on the day following the referendum. Because the referendum can prove, under these conditions, a super-arm in the difficult process, the confrontational course of negotiation within the European Union and the euro area. They're asking us and they're telling us: Where will you get money? The answer is: We'll find money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u497	That's a good answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u498	That's a great answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u499	We do not believe that today the country will be led to a complete bankruptcy plan, as the representatives of the Memorandum forces are very happy to see within the country. They're seeking it. They seem to want it and they've been recruited. Because behind all this debate in Greece the forces of the memorandum are hiding. Behind the debate 'euro or drachma', which is disorientative, divided, the forces of the memorandum are hiding, who want to transfer the problems from the real field, to issues that have to do with other kinds of strategies, geostrategic and political pursuits. They also ask us: What if it comes out 'yes' the night of the referendum? It's called. With a great conscience. This is an imaginary scenario. But if it comes up, we're a democratic force. We will respect the Greek people's opinion. The Greek people will know that after a word of knowledge they make a choice. However, we have an obligation to present it to the Greek people with arguments, with passion, with vision, with a political plan, and to try to convince them of a choice, I repeat, of a substantial reintegration of the country into the eurozone and not of its condemnation to the debt colony regime. They're giving us more arguments. But behind the arguments there is a destabilization policy plan. Is it accidental that in a bypass in Brussels Mr Samaras and other political leaders gave the image of a government on hold, while the Prime Minister fought as proved - and not with mocking - for Greek interests? It's obvious that some people have designed the Junna in their minds. The story, however, only repeats itself as a tragedy or a prank. Let's keep this in mind. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA has no secret agenda. It has obvious political pursuits that concern the entire Greek people. For five months then, despite the difficulties, problems, backwards, the people recognize to the government a sincere intent, a targeting of certain philosophical pursuits. It recognizes to the government that it attempts to inspire the people of pride, dignity. You will ask me: 'But can the people live with this?' Pride and personal national and social dignity are indeed intangible goods, moral values, but at specific moments in history it has been shown that they have acquired great material value. On this moral and material value, we are building a course of our country - we repeat - within a Europe that we want to change, seeking alliances, a course of our country outside austerity and unemployment, a course of our country, which gives voice and power to the poor and the people and does not want to turn it into a club of rich and favored by the regimes of the Memorandums. With this conscience and the pursuit we have confidence in the people, this small and the great one, that it can create a movement of popular participation and democratic claim in the coming days and disprove the Eurogroup, the directors and others here who support this catastrophic course for our country and for Europe, to disprove them with strength, with planning and perspective. To the people, the little one and the great one, we trust in him the fate of the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr. Friend. The Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mr. Koudoura, asked for five minutes. The Parliamentary Representative of PASOK Mr Venizelos will then speak and the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaopoulos. Thank you for agreeing to self-restriction over time. Mrs. Kundura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u501	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you to the Greek people, but also to our fellow European citizens, to listen to all the peoples of Europe and to understand that after five painful years of austerity and recession, we are being asked by the institutions to take new measures, which only aim to eliminate and weaken the Greek people. We all need to know what's going on, we need to shout 'then here'. Listen to the voice of our children who are fasting in school, the old people who are begging for a piece of bread and a few drugs, while they should live the west of their lives, without problems and concepts, the voices of the unemployed young people who have no vision and hope, not even to start their lives, let alone to create a family, to listen to the voice of the unemployed family who, because of the crisis, have come to beg for their children to live. They must listen to the voice of the businessman and the shopkeeper, who, after years, was forced into bankruptcy, shutting down his business and leaving his employees and their families on the road. All of this for Europeans may be imagining numbers on a paper, but it does not stop being people living between us, relatives, friends and acquaintances. Such a proud people, full of history and culture, who have even given their name in Europe, is not worth punishing with such humiliation and humiliation. In their despair, in the face of economic problems, six thousand fellow citizens have put an end to their lives. One and a half million of our fellow citizens are unemployed and, in particular, unemployment among young people is 60%. Three hundred thousand small and medium-sized enterprises put a locker, four hundred thousand employees were removed from the insurance records and a hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens live without the necessary goods, such as electricity. All this suggests that Greece is governed by a deep humanitarian crisis, due to the inhuman and cruel austerity that has been imposed on it in recent years. After five months of negotiations, the institutions did not accept the Greek Government's proposal aimed at resolving all these problems. Instead, they lead us to total extermination. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as a Member of the Independent Greeks, would like to thank our President, Panos Kammenos, who remained faithful to the agreement that we made with the Greek people to support him and to fight for his own interests. As Deputy Minister of Tourism I am proud to be part of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras who is fighting hard to have an honest and fair agreement to finally get out of this economic humanitarian crisis. Because the new government elected on January 25th was commanded to lead the country to relaunch the economy, away from the harsh materialistic measures of austerity. He took the mandate to make an honest, fair and sustainable agreement, without winners and losers. Extortion and ceremonies have not deserved the proud Greek people who have been tested, as I said, hard for five years. With the measures required by the lenders, the tourist world, with anguish it sees driving to extinction. As Minister of Tourism I could never accept VAT for the night of hotel and catering to go from 1 July to 23%. I could never accept the abolition of the reduced rate of 30% on the islands, as multi-insularity is protected by our Constitution. I could never lead to extermination and extinction of all these tourist businesses, who are struggling every day to bring revenue to Greece through tourism. Greek tourism is the pillar of our economy in the contribution of GDP by 20%, with seven hundred and fifty thousand direct and indirect jobs. We need to shield him, protect him. It is known that Greece is supported by this economy. So there's no need for spasm moves. Greece needs support measures rather than extermination measures. The official figures of the Bank of Greece are particularly satisfying because we have a blessed wonderful country and despite the war of daily publications, they have not been able to discourage millions of tourists who are flooding our country every year. The incoming travel traffic in the first four months, January to April, increased by 39.1% compared to the corresponding period of 2014, while the receipts during the same period, January to April 2015, increased by 14.4%. In spite of the terror scenarios, our tourists choose Greece. Europeans choose Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, let us all assume our responsibilities. We want a Greece of national pride that everyone respects, a Greece that is an equal member of the European family, a Greece that gives us and our children prospects. So let us not forget that democracy was born in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, Mrs Kundura and the absolute consistency of time. The PASOK Parliamentary Representative, Evangelos Venizelos, has the floor. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos will then be given the floor. Then we'll interfere with some of the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u503	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are today watching a curious double contradictory picture. It monitors the debate in the House which is taking place in a climate of nationalist excitement. The Government recommends that a referendum should be held, which it believes will serve as a catalyst in changing European correlations. At the same time, however, the Greek citizen is following developments in Brussels. Events are being observed, data is being changed. The Greek citizen has been following the rhetoric of this Chamber and is aware that, for many hours now, Eurogroup has rejected the Greek side's request to extend the programme so that, in accordance with the regulatory framework of the European Central Bank, the support of the Greek banking system can continue through the emergency liquidity mechanism, in order to make sense of what we are doing, in accordance with the government's proposal, because it is intended to achieve an extension of the programme, which is acceptable to the government, the people and the Greek economy. However, the official statement issued by the eighteen Member States of the Eurogroup, with objections only to the Greek Minister, expressly states - unfortunately - that the programme expires on 30 June, without any possibility of prolongation and that termination automatically entails the termination of all the parallel arrangements, the most important of which is the transfer of the profits of the European Central Bank and the central banks of the Member States of the Eurozone from the SNP and ANFA programmes, that is to say, from the programmes which use and exploit Greek bonds to the Greek Government. A significant budget line, to which the government has been insisting for five months - and rightly so - which we won on 21 February 2012 in Brussels through a very difficult negotiation. The Eurogroup also states that Member States will do everything necessary to ensure the financial stability of the Eurozone, regardless of what will happen in relation to Greece. That's the point. I observe the clear conviction of the Prime Minister and the Government that they know what they are doing, that there is a plan that leads the country to a solution, that there will be a referendum, that the Greek people will, by a large majority, reject the supposed proposals of creditors and that, after that, the government will renegotiate and achieve something better than what? From the proposals of creditors, which have ceased to exist now, after today's Eurogroup or in relation to its own document, which is in fact nearly 90% of the creditors' proposals? What's gonna happen next? What does Mr Tsipras and his Government say to the Greek citizen? "I call upon you, Greek citizen, to say "no" to the proposals of the Troika." And then what? How much 'no' does Mr Tsipras propose? Because of the documents it denounces and of which it proposes to vote, 90% accepts it. So it proposes a no, which is 'no' 10% and 90% 'yes', because that is the acceptance of its own proposals and its own negotiating base? If his proposal is accepted and we go to a referendum and the people vote for the government proposal and say 'no', what is the promise and commitment to the Greek people? That there will be a strong banking system? That his statements will be safe? That his loans to the Greek banks will cease to be transferred through the Bank of Greece as a pledge to the European Central Bank? We are talking about loans from Greek businesses and from Greek households. That wages will remain unscathed? That pensions will be paid? That there's not going to be any cut-off? That there will be no stopping of HISBIA? That there will be no increases in value added tax? That there will be no new interventions in the insurance system to ensure its long-term viability? What must the Greek people expect by accepting the government's proposal? At the same time, there is always the Minister of Finance, who is not addressed to the House of Greeks, but is addressed to the media, in his loved habit and says that "we have resorted to the referendum, because we have seen that the agreement we would conclude could not appear in the Greek Parliament and be accepted by our Members". It also says: 'If, by Sunday in the referendum, the referendum changes the position of partners and creditors, the government's proposal will be changed, and from 'no' to 'yes'. Is this a magical picture? Is this a referendum - a mobile celebration and on this basis is the government calling on the House and the people to build a new national strategy? [[Applause from the New Democracy and PASOK]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived through this. There is what is called 'déjà vu' psychiatry. We've seen this before. I've seen it before, personally. Mr Philis rightly reminded us of the experience of the October-November 2011 referendum proposal. Indeed, as the Minister of Finance, when without any warning, I heard the then Prime Minister announcing a referendum, I rushed to say that this referendum, since the Prime Minister wants it, must be done, after the process has been completed, and after Greece has concluded the second programme and the debt is completed, in the belief that there is agreement with the partners or even a warning from the partners. Unfortunately, however, I have seen in the next few hours that there was no such agreement. So I was stolen in the Cannes myself. In Cannes, I do not know why the belief that the partners' position has been that the referendum should not be held. The position was: to vote, since you want to do so, but to do so immediately and with the only real question that is 'yes' or 'yes' to the euro', i.e. 'euro or a drachma'. Decide. With enthusiasm, many Europeans - not only Germans, but Germans in particular - welcome and applaud the idea of the referendum, because they say: "If this endless process is to continue, it is better for the Greek people to make a choice on their own, and if their Government suggests a suicidal choice and this choice is adopted by the Greek people, we are going to get rid of responsibility". The role of Pontius Pilate is sought. He is claimed by Mr Tsipras, saying - I am a white Prime Minister. I propose 'no' to the referendum, but if the people say 'yes', I will implement the other policy. I am a Prime Minister and a government of all time. I can apply one another and the other.'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u504	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u505	However, the role of Pontius Pilate is claimed by the outsides and they say: "If Greece makes the choice to threaten suicide and kill itself, all right, we will accept the consequences". And it says the Eurogroup: 'We will do what is necessary in financial terms to safeguard the stability of the euro area', with a decisive mechanism, of course, for the European Central Bank. At the moment, the big question is not what will happen on Sunday night, on Sunday the referendum on 5 July or on Monday on 6 July. The big question is what will happen on Monday that's coming up now, tomorrow. How will the banking system work? The big question is whether the Greek citizen will have a sense of security or whether he will have a sense of pessimism, frustration, fear, and whether or not we will eventually have thrown the bin in which the enormous sacrifices of the Greek people have been gathered over the past few years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is the big picture? After five lost months, the government, since it has only recently started taking a serious part in the discussions, managed to corner the country, with the back wall, and to propose a EUR 8 billion programme of measures. Having done all this, it comes here and reveals its real agenda, namely the agenda of the exit from the euro - which, unfortunately, leads to an exit from the European Union - the agenda of indifference towards incomplete bankruptcy, the agenda of the annulment of the national acquis, the agenda of the cancellation of the sacrifices of the past five years. And he suggests to the Greek people what? Admit the lobby of the inner and outer drachma? To support those who have the profits outside and the losses in the media? Accept bankruptcy, real and universal bankruptcy, marginalisation and uncertainty, return, not in 2009, but in 1949? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And now, unfortunately, they get the real, but dark, meaningless, all that happened in the past five months. Delays, regressions, ambiguities, constant changes in positions: - 'not prolongation', 'no instalments', 'other prolongation', 'no instalments', 'no instalments', we cannot pay our own debts. The signing of February 20th, a memorandum without money, the indifference of deposits, the naive views of Russia and China, the naive analyses of pro-American and pro-merclal. This is how they get their dark meaning the reshapings of the negotiation team, the change of people. Of course, all this now leads to a question which is: 'yes' or 'no' to the proposal. What proposal? What does 'yes' or 'no' mean in the proposal, when this proposal has now ceased to be in force, because we have been in another phase of European procedures? Have you wondered: The country's current programme in the International Monetary Fund, from which we are left to receive 15 billion, will there still be? Will the Governing Council of the International Monetary Fund accept further disbursement? I told you, ladies and gentlemen, we will be reconstructing the existing funds and giving them to us as a Memorandum 2.5, 2 plus and prepare us for Memorandum 3. And one day, I said, by addressing the House, that, unfortunately, the financial needs will exceed 50 billion and it is now clear that a memorandum of 50 billion will, unfortunately, be required under the appropriate measures. Listen to my answers to three very important questions soon, because I want to be very honest and clean with you and the Greek people: I've been reported on Hardouvel's mail many times. The government says: 'Well, it had not been accepted, other measures would have been added'. Do you know what the difference is? The difference is the cost of the lost five months is incalculable big. The fact that the country is now no longer claiming a growth rate of 2.5%, but is struggling to stand at 0%, is at risk of returning to the recession - the signs are, unfortunately, negative, materialistic - causing an avalanche of negative effects and migrating to the need for additional measures. In the year 2015, we risk going to a list of measures equivalent to that of 2012. Unfortunately, the five lost months have turned us back three years. The difference, in relation to the climate, in relation to the prospect of transition to the prudential credit line, is that we could otherwise meet the financial needs, with a progressively supported exit on the markets, is decisive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Question two: From the 8 billion that Mr Tsipras accepted - let the difference with the proposal of creditors who are 0.5 billion, 1 billion, but the torso is 8 billion - how much is due to the fact that Greece has a large debt, burdened, some say, shameful. The Government accepts the debt and calls for parametric changes in the 2012 intervention footsteps. How many of these measures are due to debt? No measure is due to debt. All are measures, so that we do not have a deficit problem again and not a debt problem, because the cost of debt servicing, if one takes into account and returns the profits of the Eurosystem, is 2% of GDP. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] This is the smallest annual debt service cost in South Europe, less than the Italian, Portuguese, etc. Where's the debt myth in meters? And I can continue with the question and go to a third and ask you this: do you think, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u506	And that's it to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u507	I will finish, Madam President. Don't bother. If the proposals of the creditors are rejected, which are ultimately the Greek Government's proposals with disagreements, augmentations, excesses, what will the Greek citizen gain? If he says 'no', a proud 'no' will not have a tax burden? Won't he pay HICPH? Will not the value added tax be increased? Will there unfortunately not be the problem with the islands? Will there be a secure payment of pensions, or will the method of forced lending be applied, as has now been applied to the payment of pensions? What's gonna happen? Are there going to be investments? Is there going to be growth? Will jobs be created? On the substance, indeed, as a perspective, let us see what 'no' will bring about. The 'no', therefore, will best bring about the resumption of negotiations with Greece outside the programme, with the banks outside the ELA, with the Greek people in a state of anxiety. It will bring about the humiliating renegotiation of the negotiations, not from a position of power, but from a position of absolute weakness. It will not be Lausanne's negotiation, I said, 1923, which was decent, but it was far from the Serb Treaty. Unfortunately, it will be the humiliating Treaty of Versailles in 1919 for Germany. He says Mr Tsipras and his Government: If we follow this line, we will improve the correlations, we will have a better outcome. It's obvious that the connections will deteriorate on all fronts. If the negotiation had taken place by 28 February, according to our timetable, if Mr Tsipras had put forward his essential arguments in the first four weeks after the elections, saving the prospect of leaving the memorandum and moving to the preventive credit line, would our position be weaker or stronger than today's four months later? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] It would have been stronger. It's the Cyprus experience. Plan B never existed. And those who rejected Plan I, assuming that a better Plan II will come, were forced to suffer a much worse Plan I. Well, can't we learn lessons from our own national experiences? The government thinks he took a genius initiative and traps the opposition. In fact, it seeks to trap the Greek people, because it cannot solve the inner-party problem. Mr Tsipras between national interest and party cohesion, chooses party cohesion and offends the national interest. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] But traps often lead to self-determination. Only self-determination is not about the government, but it is, unfortunately, about the country. The Greek Parliament, with the individual responsibility of each and every one of them in here, must prevent self-determination, protect the national interest, give perspective. That is why we are saying that the referendum is harmful and must not be done. We are voting against the government's proposal for the reasons we have said, constitutional, institutional, political, national and economic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u508	Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u509	If we get this referendum to take place, the democratic referendum which is an institutional deflection, of course, will not answer the question that the government is asking for extortion and entrepreneurially. Our 'yes' will not be 'yes' to the proposal of the creditors, which is the result of the harmful negotiation made by Mr Tsipras. We do not care about this text. Our 'yes' as far as we are concerned, on our own national terms. We do not say yes to the text of creditors. We say 'yes' to Europe, 'yes' to the euro, 'yes' to the need for a government that finally expresses national unity and has the capacity to negotiate, in fact, quickly and effectively. And, of course, the government's 'no' is not proud 'no' in a non-existent text, it is 'no' in Europe, 'no' in the euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u510	Mr. Venizelo, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u511	We are therefore addressing the Greek people, on our own real, national terms. From that point on, everyone takes responsibility. And the responsibility that Mr Tsipras and his government assume is impressively great. I hope they're aware of what they're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u512	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u513	However, you have taken the responsibility that, speaking as a parliamentary representative, you have spoken more than the time left for the political leaders, twenty-three minutes. In relation to the petition made to the Parliament of Cyprus and because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u514	You won't make any comments!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u515	Madam President, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u516	...we welcomed the President of the Parliament of the Republic of Cyprus last week...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u517	You won't make any comments!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u518	...I have to tell you that it would be a good thing, no one to defend extortion to parliament. Extortion to Parliament is a violation of democracy, as is the attitude you are looking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u519	You won't make any comments!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u520	I hope that the camera actually shows who is acting and how, which former ministers are hitting the seats in this way, as if they were not in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u521	Aren't you ashamed, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u522	You won't make any comments!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u523	But aren't you embarrassed at all?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u524	The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Nicholas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u525	Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the first time that someone has been incapable of agreeing to 'yes' to Europe, as Mr Venizelos said. And it is the first time that one can agree with Vangelis Venizelos, who spoke and admitted that the "no" will be the "no" of national pride. Yes, that's what Vangelis Venizelos said, if you heard him, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u526	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u527	I respect your years. I respect your age. Or I'd tell you what's worthy of you. You don't respect your age? You'll talk to me better! Idiot!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u528	Mr. Davakis, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u529	You're unacceptable. Be more decent and more serious. You're in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u530	Gentlemen of the PASOK and the New Democracy you leave, leave if you want in a regular manner and do not violate the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u531	Come on! Denekkah!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Davaki, you're gonna make me take action and I don't want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u533	But you didn't listen, Madam President. Talking to me about a field?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u534	Please! Here you go, Mr. Nicholas, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u535	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, I hope you won't take my time, Madam President. One might indeed glorify God and the people, because with what Mr Venizelos said and while all this has been shown to be monstrous, we are standing here, the Greeks - I told you in my previous speech - even those who went to the tail to raise some, little of what they have left. And I am not talking about the fellow Members who have filled the internet that they are out here. There's photos online out here at the ATMs of the House. But I am referring to ordinary citizens. I say "thanks to God", because once listening to Dora Bakoyannis, the other day Venizelos tells him that "the disaster comes and I can't see what the sunrise will be" again. I thought that the playground exists in the European Union, listening to the statements made by the President of the European Union, who, as you have heard, said that 'we cannot continue to discuss with this government, because our confidence was compromised, even if the Greek people were to vote 'yes'. Kids are playing! It is indeed a pity, at these difficult times, for the European Union to have this calibre of leaders at the top of the European Union. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the blatant patriotic speech and not the laundering that some people would like there, which brought them a blurred river. He made it clear what our position is and along with 'yes in Europe, but not in the memoranda', he said that we will not deliver our homeland, because some want to have no right to defend our borders. "No, we will not deliver our country, we will not disarm," said Panos Kammenos. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, PASOK's friends are gone. They probably went to share on what is coming, because I see no one here telling them that both temperament and seriousness are needed and responsibility from all of us, because we are on a crossroads, which the people have had to face since 1974. Foreign lenders know that, and that's why they're trying, with nails and teeth, to stop the referendum. Since noon, some of the Members of the 'yes' to everything' of the previous period have announced here that something is going on and the tricks started at noon, saying 'what if the lenders get the proposal back? Then does it have to be a referendum? What are you going to do?’ But it didn't come out. They were told on the outside that this could be the case. That trick didn't work. They thought it would be embarrassing for the potential lenders to do this trick, and they thought of another to do and I wish I hadn't been confirmed. Since it was heavy for them, they are now getting used to another means. They need partners. They need "joints", as Panos Kammenos or "growers", as would be said by the late Christoulos. They need the usual, willing ones. They need some MPs and some parties that will take over to do this political dirty job tonight. The foreigners thought that with a motion of censure they could stop holding the referendum. I hope they don't find any accomplices at the National Representation. But it is worth taking this seriously into account. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said before that we are experiencing moments of historic, moments of great responsibility towards the country, the people and, above all, the future generations. Above all, my mind and mind - I imagine - are all about the next generations, about the enormous responsibility of our children and grandchildren not to live as much as we have lived in either the era of the emblem culture or the time of crisis and poverty. We have a supreme obligation to seek solutions that will lead the country to a better and cleaner future and to a state not only sovereign and proud, but economic and socially sound and fair. And by seeking these solutions, we must all fight. So, starting with my position on the government's referendum proposal, I repeat and I am emphatically clear that I am a Europeanist. I am absolutely saying that I believe in Europe and the euro, despite the great flaws and weaknesses they have. And to the Independent Greeks as a whole, we believe in the potential and not only. We also believe in the advantages, but also in the sufficient need for us to remain in the European core. But let us all ask ourselves: what is the Europe we want? What is the Europe in which we have been placed, with many matches, by the National Admiral Constantine Karamanlis? Is it the Europe that, for five years, decides on the dislocation of a weak country after five years? Is the Europe that promotes or consents to the most extreme outburst, knowing that this is equivalent to the sure death of the country and the people? Is Europe the logic of what they say 'fly the Greeks from the euro' and for years they have cultivate the myth of a lazy and inappropriate people or the logic of people, such as the Chancellor of Austria, who recently said 'Europe is a chain as strong as Europe is its weakest link'? And I am still asking: is the IMF, which has admitted the wrong multiplier, and yet continues to support and demand the most extreme measures? So the proposed referendum is not about Europe and the country's European perspective. It concerns the measures, the extremist austerity measures requested, which the present Government has no popular legitimacy to implement. I do feel that the current government, even beyond its election lines, made great concessions and accepted a lot with which it did not agree, believing in the possibility of a viable compromise. And a compromise always has retreats from both sides. The government was aware of this and, you know, my personal conviction is that it went even further than it could, accepting painful measures, but because it believes in the European perspective and the European solution. And what was he asking for? Only one: this compromise should at least be sustainable. To be the last time the pains and sufferings of the Greek people. It should be possible for the country to come out of the open after so many years, and it should be entitled to hope, instead of taking 10 billion meters a year and a half, but now so much more and a year and a half. Let's not be fooled. With these lasting measures, it's not coming out. And if a colleague from the opposition parties has an opposite opinion, let him express it. We are therefore discussing a referendum that can strengthen the public legitimacy of the government in order to claim a viable agreement. We are talking about the solutions that can be shown to the European leadership that we cannot change the essence of the problem from time to time, with a foreigner people constantly paying the marble. By now when will Greece be a ball between the IMF's demand for debt restructuring and the reluctance of the European leadership to do so, so that Greece will be pushed to take fire-fighting measures that are destroying the country? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, clear words are needed at last. If the debt is sustainable, then the European leadership should take over the problem without accepting the intervention of the International Monetary Fund in its territories and its peoples. If the International Monetary Fund is right and debt is unsustainable, we should take responsibility for measures and painful decisions and, however, for the European leadership to resolve the debt issue. The "we don't do either, nor the other, but we ask the Greeks to pay what they don't have", it really doesn't work anywhere. I read you, ladies and gentlemen, the statement made today by the United States Minister for Finance. They're not friends of the river, they're sprayed. Here's what he says: 'The debt must be part of the negotiations'. He added: "The global economy does not need a shock now." You know, this is the first time that the United States has officially accepted that a restructuring or a debt haircut should be part of the overall solution to the problem. With an article on fire, after all, the great American newspaper 'The Washington Post' - please listen to it, please, very much, and you fellow Members who sit on the right - compares the new government of SYRIZA to that of Antenauer in Germany, arguing that they were both called to manage the mismanagement of their countries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. In particular, they write: "Germany is always obliged to remember that its growth and prosperity is due to the majestic decision of its opponents in World War II to delete 50% of its debts." Finally and again, with the obsession of fiscal orthodoxy, which has blown up all over Europe. The article then becomes even tougher - it is today - saying that Germany's obsession led to the disaster. He continues the article: "Unemployment has risen to 25%, while youth unemployment has exceeded 50%, the economy has shrinked by 26%, and consumption of 40%." Congratulations, Mr. Venizele. Think that Mr. Venizelos would have done well, what he would have told us today about this Step here. "The debt amounted to 175% of GDP, while the funds from the loans granted by Germany and the other states in Greece were given," said by Dimitris Kammenos, to listen to those who are ironing and laughing and provoking in this Chamber and allegedly tempting you to listen to what the American newspaper says today - "they were given either to cover the interest rates or to repay the previous loans. Just 11% of them were actually given to the Greek Government." Did you hear that, Mr. Venizele? You did not hear them, so I put them in the Minutes, not to say that they were from my mind. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, enough people have indeed rushed to the banks in the last few hours because they have been afraid, but no one has spoken of those who have not gone. Do we know how many people they didn't go? Do we know how many unemployed people are, the five in this place because of the memorials? Do we know how much blood and pain the Greeks have cost? But what about the citizens who rushed them? 'Do you want us to implement the offer of lenders or not?'. Ask them, please. That is why I believe that they would say no, as would the overwhelming majority of the people in eight days' time. It will say a myristostom, a pandemic 'no'. I also believe that this government could not go any further than it has already gone to the red lines without asking the people. Ladies and gentlemen, who is afraid of the people? Well, not us. We tell the people to choose freely, calmly and sovereignly. We tell the Greeks that our unity is unnecessarily unnecessarily and whoever plays acidification games, wherever it belongs, will find us in front of it. We all live in this place and we all entered the crisis together, and we all get out of this crisis. We say: "Greeks and Greeks, raise the head up to the ceremonies and the endless austerity." Let's respond with democracy. And at this time of democracy and freedom, we are all on the same side. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the cycles of creditors will not be confirmed and that today we will not live up to a motion of censure which will actually work as the reprisals operate in democracy. Last time they made it. Mr. Venizelos thinks that no one read Sarkozy's book in the country, which then says how the coup took place a elected government. Don't look at that she wasn't a distance, and she's only left a distance of Mitsotakis. But, listen, they canceled the referendum then - they succeeded - and overthrowed an elected government. For days now, they have been trying behind the people's backs to find new, willing apostates. They thought that yesterday in Brussels they were found and prepared - he says - to swear the 'government of the mountain', but in Brussels. They didn't come out. Let us hope, then, that there will be no Greek and Greek Members who will put the people in the plaster tonight. Because if they dare, they will. Why, who knows? It can bring the ballots of the national elections closer together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Panagiotis Lafazanis, Minister for Productive Reconstruction of the Environment and Energy, has the floor and then Mr Athanasios Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Venizelos is away from the Chamber. He spoke very much, with the tolerance of the Bureau and did well for the Bureau to give him the floor. Mr. Venizelos! But I regret that his rhetoric ability is literally wasted on a content of no substance rhetoric and extremely disorientative. Has Mr Venizelos, PASOK, New Democracy not understood anything in this country over the last five years? Didn't they understand anything? Nothing at all? Haven't they seen the devastation that has occurred? Haven't they seen the plundering of this country, this place, this people? Have they not seen that 1/4 of the Gross National Product has been lost, that unemployment is over 30%, that most in youth are unemployed? Haven't they seen any of this? They're coming to Stepma. Do they not have a word about the troika, about the institutions, about the dominant circles of the European Union, the IMF, the European Central Bank, which have imposed in that country programmes for extermination and elimination, in the name of its salvation? Doesn't he have to say a word of self-criticism why he co-operated in all these crimes? And he's coming here to be an honourer of whom? SYRIZA? For taking the disaster and trying within a few months that is in the country's governance to open up a road of responsibility, a way of perspective, a way of hope for the country! All right, the Opposition doesn't stand up. Five years he didn't understand. Five months he didn't understand what's going on? New Democracy didn't understand, which I see briefly is missing right now, and I don't know why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u538	There's a Karamanlis present.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u539	Did New Democracy not understand anything in the five months? Anything? Because in the five months the country has been living a torture, a torture, of the institutions. And we have a government that has been trying from the beginning, with constant retreat and retreat, many times unfortunate, I would say - in my humble opinion - to try and find an approach with the institutions, to try to find a common path, a convergence. But, five months, what is the country facing? Extortion and ultimatum. And every retreat of the government, every step of the approach to finding an agreement, exploiting the troika, exploiting it by the institutions, in order to continue extortion, to upgrade and send ultimatums and to raise the coup more and more. That's five months now. Isn't that what New Democracy sees? Can't PASOK see it? Can't the river see it? Potami and PASOK all they want is to change alliances and go to a government with their own participation to continue all the catastrophe that we've known in previous years. Don't they see that? Why don't they get up from this step of criticising the behaviour of all of them and are disturbed by the referendum? It is crucial that the hours, critically, developments, and at the moment when the country is on a limit point, the Ministerial Council with a proposal from the Prime Minister took the initiative of moving to a referendum, making a referendum on the unacceptable, barbaric, conscientious proposal from the institutions, a proposal which effectively exterminates the country and calls for a referendum. It calls for a referendum on this proposal and a storm arises. The referendum in New Democracy and the PASOK is unconstitutional. So, were they constitutionally what they have done now five years, bringing the memorials and voting as an emergency at night in the House? That was constitutional? Was it democratic? When they were ignoring the Greek people and with an article they were voting for multinomous projects, were they constitutional? Were they democratic? And instead of doing a self-criticist, now, they are annoying and objecting to a motion for an appeal to the people, to appeal to the citizen, in order for him to say his opinion and to dominately on a major issue concerning the country's course for decades, for a major - not just national, national issue! - the national topic that will judge our country's progress for the next few decades? And when they do, they propose unconstitutionalism! In other words, they actually propose and object to recourse to the people. They don't want the citizen to talk. They don't want the citizen to take responsibility. And they want to hide in this referendum, not to be a referendum, or, if they do, to hide. And that's why their answer to the referendum is, what is it? 'Yes' in Europe, he says. I don't understand. In other words, do they identify 'yes' in Europe with 'yes' or 'no' in the proposal of the institutions? In other words, 'yes' in Europe, what does it cover in this particular case? Does the question go beyond answering 'yes' or 'no' to the proposal of the institutions and throwing the ball at the platform and saying 'yes' to Europe? In any case, what does 'yes' mean in Europe? Europe is a geographical concept. Do they mean 'yes' in the EU? Do they match Europe with the EU? There are also countries outside the European Union. So what does 'yes' mean in Europe and 'we live in Europe'? What is this misery, which is taking place at the expense of the peoples of Europe? So, does Greece not live in Europe anyway, no matter what? Where does Greece live, where is Greece? What kind of misery are you doing? Do you identify "We Stay in Europe" with what? By 'yes' to the proposal of the institutions? You want to hide. You don't want to get in position. You do not want to say that we are voting against, we are against the proposal of the institutions. You don't want to criticize. You want to get away from the problem unorthodoxly and so be "bottom-up with the policeman and the policeman", say nothing. In this attitude, however, one thing proves to be by 'yes', with the proposal of the institutions, with the barbaric proposals to exterminate the Greek people. This is your position, which you are trying to cover with so-called orange concentrations, similar to those carried out in Eastern Europe, in order to impose anti-democratic regimes and supposedly revolutions, which are, in fact, counter-revolutionary and reactionary moves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u540	You're in trouble. It was backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u541	That's what you want to do. But history is not repeated. Greece is a democracy. Greece has a people who have great historical, democratic and progressive traditions, it will not be lured into supposed movements, in supposedly mobilisations, which under vague slogans, "We stay Europe", in fact hide an extremely reactionary direction. Shoeble right now, we're seeing him. We see his works at the Eurogroup. We see the attitude of Diaselblum. We see the attitude of all of them right now, who have a front towards our country which has no basis and no prospects. We see their behaviour today after the vote. What do you have to say about their attitude? Absolutely nothing. In other words, a government comes in and makes a motion for a referendum with a proposal that they themselves have submitted to the Eurogroup, for Greece to implement, and what is their answer? What's their answer? Their answer is to say that we are making a special Eurogroup, saying that we are making a special champ and leaving Greece out? Don't you find that a word to criticise? Do you not see a attitude toward us, which wants to lead to developments that are abnormal and undemocratic? Don't you see that? What is the attitude toward all of them? It's SYRIZA's fault, the ANELs are to blame for this situation, for these developments? You are also telling us that, instead of asking the question 'yes or not', the question we should have put is 'yes' or 'yes', 'yes', 'yes' or 'yes'. Is that the question? So do you identify the euro with the proposal of the institutions? Do you identify 'no' to the proposal of the institutions with the drachma? Are these the identities you're making? Is the euro a one-way proposal for the institutions? Is that what you're telling us? So we know what you're saying to us, so we can get in touch with each other. How, then, can this transfer be made 'euro or drachma'? And what is the ratio with the proposal 'yes' or 'no' to the proposal of the institutions? Do you identify the euro with the barbarity of the institution's proposal? Do you identify the euro with taxes, with the pillaging of the Greek people, with the abolition of pensions? Then, if you'll excuse me, how do you justify the country's euro stay? In the name of these vast pillows, can you justify it? Is that the euro that you are supporting and putting us across? Is that the euro you invoke? Of course, SYRIZA, the government has no choice but to leave the Eurozone and we have told it to all tons. But this... [[Noise from the ward of PASOK]] Leave Europe alone. Don't identify it with the Eurozone. You first identify the EU with Europe and now the Eurozone with Europe. You're making a lot of I.D.s. I don't understand. There are too many currencies in Europe. It's not just one. So don't do those excesses. There are countries within the euro, there are countries outside the euro. And countries outside the euro are neither damaged countries in Europe nor have fallen into the cliff nor have they fallen on famines and earthquakes. So our government has no choice for exiting the euro. However, this does not mean that the euro should also represent the extermination of the country. Does the euro also ensure that the institutions' programmes are well accepted? The euro entered the country to improve its position, to have growth, to have better days, to have more justice. That is why the country entered the euro and not to use it to blackmail the country and the Greek people and to say: "In order to stay in the euro, you must destroy your people and you must accept anything they offer you at any price, regardless of consequences and consequences." At this time in the referendum, the Greek people will say a very large, strong, resounding 'no'. It will say 'no' to the proposal of the institutions. And this 'no' will represent a great 'yes'. It will represent a great 'yes' in a new perspective for the country, of course, difficult. The roads here are not easy and unscrupulous. Through difficulties we will pass, but we will be able with a large, narrow-minded 'no' to open up a new, popular dynamic to support a new path that will, through difficulties, open up new prospects for our country. And it will open up new prospects for our country, because this 'no' will mean three things for Greece, which are necessary at this time to get out of the crisis. First, the austerity will end. No more measures, no more extermination of the Greek people. Secondly, demand and demand for a new strong liquidity in the country, which is necessary, in order to fuel a development, productive reconstruction. This liquidity will be guaranteed in our country and this liquidity will be achieved, because without it there is no alternative. The third: I heard Mr Venizelos lowering it, undermining it and limiting it, and saying: 'What debt? This debt has no financial impact. It's covered. It is very little what we need to bear in order to respond to the debt." Is that right, Mr. Venizelo? Is that how you count the debt and its consequences? Do 300 billion have a minimum financial impact? Don't you realize for so long that we've been struggling to find a few instalments to pay back the debts? Aren't these afflicting effects of the debt, which are drowning the neck of the country like a noose? Do you not know that this debt is why we pay interest and we have to have large primary surpluses, so that we do not have borrowing to pay these interest? Don't you see that, Mr. Venizelo? Didn't you manage them all these years and do you not realize that one of the key problems in this country and at this juncture is to go to a deep, deep debt write-off?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u542	Can I answer you? Do you take a break?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u543	You don't have to answer that, Mr. Venizelo. You've developed and made disastrous policies in this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u544	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u545	Do you take a break?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u546	And these disastrous policies you have made, many of which in the name of debt, have launched the debt, Mr Venizelos, instead of reducing it. And it has been launched so dangerously that, if we cannot be relieved by a restructuring of the debt, and in particular by a deep deletion, this country has absolutely no future. And her bankruptcy will come at some point, whether measures are implemented or no measures are implemented. Because this debt is not sustainable and cannot be dealt with under normal conditions and under normal conditions. This debt will either be erased or exterminate the country. And it should have been your flag all these years. It was not your flag, but at least not to justify that this debt is supposed to have no financial implications, which are excessive, so we cannot talk in terms of debt now and that elsewhere is the problems. Here are the problems. The problems are in debt, they're in the absence of liquidity, they're in the austerity. And these will stop with a great 'no' that the Greek people will say, opening difficult but hopeful roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u547	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, Minister. You made four so-called references to Mr. Venizelos. Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u549	You can't do that. Mr President, what will happen? Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u550	He's spoken 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u551	The President asked for the floor, gentlemen. There's a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u552	It's not personal, Mr. President. What's the staff that Mr. Venizelos is entitled to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u553	I politically criticised myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u554	You're welcome. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u555	Mr President, Mr Lafazanis has made a reluctant reference to what I said in my speech, obviously because he has not understood the size of the intervention made in the Greek public debt in 2012 and is a member of a government that is currently seeking to negotiate with creditors to complete the interventions made in 2012. Whilst strangely in the Greek Parliament, the notorious Committee of Truth for Debt promotes the philosophy of "purpose debt" and total debt write-offs, while the government accepts the debt and calls for better parametric changes. The 2012 debt interventions, therefore, have led to a reduction in debt in net present value terms, which is the crucial element, equal to 100% of Greek GDP, that is, EUR 180 billion. A few days ago, on 16 June, the annual report of the ESM was released, Mr Regling's report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u556	Mr President, what will happen? Will he buy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u557	Please don't interrupt. It's over, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u558	Mr Reggling points out that, apart from the cut we made in the public debt held internationally by private operators, the intervention we made in the occupied by the European institutions Greek debt, an OSI, Official Sector Investment, is equivalent to 49% of the Greek GDP of 2013, that is, 100 billion euros. When Mr Lafazanis and the government to which he belongs, before the House, cut the Greek debt of a euro, we can continue the debate. I was a Minister of Finance when we brought a debt haircut to a net present value of 180 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u559	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lafazanis has the floor, and then we are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u560	There won't be a ball right now. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u561	Mr. Pafile, please don't cause any problems. Here you go, Mr. Lafasan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u562	Are we gonna play now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u563	Mr President, I do not want to trouble this House. But I want to ask Mr. Venizelo. Mr. Venizelo, don't relapse the debt, because, whenever you do, it's off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u564	Mr. Athanasios Paphilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u565	He's, I imagine, very pleased with his sense of humor, Mr. Lafazanis. Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u566	However, Mr. Lafasan, and you're asking for a haircut. And you've asked from time to time. In the position of one-sided debt deletion we say, you whistle indifferently and turn to the corner. I'm saying it, so people know some things about controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u567	Come on, it's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u568	Mr President, it is not twelve, it is six minutes. Our party's secretary has spoken. I shall begin with this: the proposal says, for a referendum will judge the course of our country in the next few decades. Are you serious? Mr Voutsis also said so in the introductory speech, and Mr Lafazanis repeated it. Are you seriously saying that our country's future will judge this referendum, in which you call on the people to choose either the carrot or the looting? Mostly - I will translate it differently - but what do you all say to him together? Dismiss the proposal of the destructive lenders, who did, who created the economic killers, etc., but long live the killers, we can't without the killers! Isn't that what you're saying? What do you think? Who brought the country into this situation, as you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u569	SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u570	She was brought by the capitalist system. All right, let's agree on that. But - I don't want to say names - who made the memos? Who's blackmailing you today, as you say? And I accept that we should not go further. Isn't the European Union? Isn't the International Monetary Fund? Isn't the European Central Bank? Aren't these your partners and partners? Aren't you calling the people for the second time? And you have huge responsibilities. You said in January that Europe was changing. We have said that Europe does not change and, when it changes, it becomes worse. Who was right? You have created illusory, false hopes, as you have done with Maastricht and with the EEC, and so on. I will also say about the New Democracy, so that some will not worry. Now, in front of this dead end, as you say, what do you say to him again? To reject the proposal and not those who make all these proposals and have created this barbarity literally. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the controversy that is taking place here in low or high dramatic tones, touching, acidified, has one element. The Minister, Mr. Flambury, will understand that because he's older. One doesn't change. The 'one of the dead'. You know the popular proverb: "One of the bitter" and the rest go below. What's the "one of the bitter"? What I said before. It is the European Union, capitalism, the capitalist system. That's why it's good. So what's conflicting here? The New Democracy, openly, cynically, would say - is a political character - it says that we say that capitalism, the European Union, etc. It's the best system. By fire and iron! Today I do not want to say a lot of courage, because it is not right - a lot of soul, in the negative sense, in the face of world and European ruins, to defend this system yet. A lot more needs to be done: a lot of hypocrisy to defend this road and be left! You did it all the way. Let's forget it. But, well - I address the Greek people, we appeal as a Communist Party of Greece to the Greek people and to you - what else do we have to see? What else? You'll tell the war. But there's already the war. It's blood every day. Who makes this war? Isn't that them? Institutions. Listen, you've done a great feat, Minister. You've done a great feat. ‘Waterwasher’. You told them institutions. What institutions? They're all horns. They're drinking blood. Don't you see it? Don't you live it, regardless of anything else in the negotiations? And yet, despite all this, you all come and you trap the people. You trap him and tell him there's no other way. This is the oneway. The classic and ideological concepts and you on the same road, on the other hand, with delusional ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, we have heard a great deal about national independence, about the defence of the country. Especially the Minister of National Defence was touching about patriotism and about what he said. Really, who is responsible for all this? Who's asking you to disarm the Army? Who are they? Isn't the European Union? Aren't your allies? Isn't it NATO? Aren't they asking you for them? And you come here crying? And with them not only do you work together - and I refer to the speech of the Minister of National Defence, but also to you - not only do you not draw conclusions from what they have done, but are we talking about NATO now? Today? What was NATO doing on the night of the Imales? Not a single statement, it's Greek territory. What did NATO do to Cyprus? Did he defend her or cut her apart? Not only do you support it, but you're dating today, and what are you doing? You're giving him a new base to Carpathos. New base in Karpathos! Let the Prime Minister come out, Mr. Panjah, because you protest, deny it. And what else? You are asking for a new Rapid Intervention Forces Headquarters in Crete. We must be defended by the people's killers - because they are both in Yugoslavia and in all our lengths and backs - to defend our borders. And you're talking about national independence? We are talking about national independence, when you have also been assigned by the Maastricht Treaty and by the Schengen Agreement - other governments, but you have said 'yes', and indeed the Minister of National Defence was a protagonist in government and Minister - part of the sovereignty of the country in the European Union and when you are assigned to NATO, which can intervene and do what he wants, without obtaining any permission. And you come out and you're moved to say that these are the results. That is hypocrisy in our view. That's hypocrisy! Third, alliances everywhere. We're making a multi-faceted policy. We're Russia, here, there. Of course, I heard Mr. Nicholas before saying anthems about Obama, etc. Sometimes you complain to the IMF, you say it's good. All right, that's all. I'm going further. Allieds, of course, must also make international relations with the whole world and with all the countries of the world. And we say that, but on what condition? First of all, the people will have power, namely the economy. And on a second condition, you're not a member of the imperialist organizations. Because when you're a member of the imperialist organizations, it's like the donkey tied to the stake, and sometimes they leave the rope and sometimes they pick it up, just to say it and make people understand it. What independent policy, after getting permission from everywhere? You don't live them? You come out and announce the pipeline agreement and the Foreign Minister comes out of the United States and says American counterproposal. Feel the pressures, I'll say it so you know it very well, and you see what part the Russians and everyone else play. One, then, is the prerequisite to making mutually advantageous international alliances: to have an independent policy and to have the economy in your hands and leave the rest behind. With the question you put to the referendum, we do not agree. We made a proposal, our party's secretary and our rapporteur analysed the JRC's proposal. We shall therefore put a request for a roll-call vote - and I shall now put it to the Bureau - on the proposal we are making. Because I do not want us to get into a lot of trouble in procedural matters, that is to say, you know, 'you can't' or 'you can', we say: firstly, it is a political issue, but it is also based on Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Rule 115(4) states the following about the proposal of the Ministerial Council, as it now comes: 'The vote on accepting or not accepting the proposal is nominal and concerns the text of the proposal as tabled or formulated during the debate in Parliament'. You, who swear to democracy, have an obligation to put it to the vote and to decide whether it will be the question of the Ministerial Council, or whether it will also be the questions put by the Communist Party of Greece, which are the real questions. These are: 'No' to the proposal - so to speak - of the European Union - do you want me to say'recommendations'? - the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, 'no' to the government's proposal, which exists and is signed by the Prime Minister. Secondly, release from the European Union. It will vote 'yes' or 'no' in the world. Repeal of Memorandums and All Enforcement Laws. These questions may well come in. Everyone will decide personally what to vote on in the roll-call vote. Do not accept, with various terrain, means too many things that you have to explain and politically in the world, it means you want to hide. Put it on if you dare, we challenge you for at least theoretically what you say. You also put this to a referendum with these questions which are the real questions, because small children today know that they are white - black, euro-drawn and all the rest are 'in or outside the European Union'. You can't have a polemic policy. What else do you expect to see? What else? Even naive were some, after what happened in the last five months, only by conscious choice - and do not get pissed off and misunderstand yourself when we tell you about the interests of capital, we are objectively talking - you may have delusional things that a philosopheric policy can achieve within the European Union. We call on the people to express it in the polls, if they are rejected by the House - which we imagine will be rejected - to raise their heads, to stop listening to the sirens of terror that are spread from everywhere, to tell them that no one feeds him, that the European Union is stealing him and the capital, and that there can also be all the conditions to get power in his hands. And to get it, the road must be opened. And the road can open with a powerful popular movement, with a powerful social alliance, which can overthrow the barbarity that we live in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u571	Thank you very much. You invoked me. I've been counting on you for a 12-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u572	I said to get to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u573	Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the River Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u574	Gentlemen of the Government majority, if your goal was to divide the Greek people, you have succeeded. The people have been divided. Except the camps are not the way you calculated them. On the one hand - and you can see it both in the House and in the social dialogue on the Internet and in society - it is Golden Dawn, the ANELs, of course, and a part of SYRIZA. On the other hand, it's the rest of society. In other words, the drachma troika is at your side and the conservative circles of Europe, as they are called, wanting to unblock some time from the Greeks. Other gangs, same show! You will know - and it is not a secret - that eight of the countries that the Greeks want to leave the European Union have already become. It's your accomplishment! All of them will pray that your referendum will go well to get Greece and leave. But before we arrive on Sunday, gentlemen of the conflict, you will have to give an answer to the new generation for your turbulent policy. You'll have seen it or, anyway, you'll have heard it. Ask for information. In the last few hours, thousands of boys and thousands of girls, who until yesterday had nothing to do with politics, come out today and say their own 'there!'. It is the generation of 'ERASMUS'. It's the generation he's learned to look at the map and not to see a border. [[Laughers in the Chamber From the Wing of SYRIZA]] Party employees can laugh.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u575	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u576	So what do we say to these children? That they're losing Europe, but are they staying in the Balkans? And in a few years you will have to beg for the positive vote of Skopje and Albania to get a little help for Greece. Gentlemen of the government, all your moves five months now testify that all you care about is the party and its professional staff, it's your "producer". And since the party army wants a drachma, then drachma. And since the army doesn't want Europe, then let's get out of Europe. As long as the army, the army, does not leave the army next to us! Some of your ministers had said it, but we didn't believe it. Another world without excellence, but with a lot of state - a party state - is possible, yelling. And this state, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, wants loneliness. It does not want the rules of the European Union. With the rules of the European Union, the life of old politics will be difficult. Let me tell you something, because this is where we've arrived, we have to tell you some truths. You did not negotiate in Europe. Your people have done pawns, as the secretaries in Brussels have witnessed, without papers, without proposals, without a plan. And if you exclude - and I should say it - Mr. Juliarakis, who, they say, knew what he was talking about and tried to save uncomfortables, the others would go on a school trip. And the Prime Minister was forced to say so a few days ago that the negotiations are starting now. The photos from the sofas testify. School excursion. This is the designation of even your friends in Europe, the Socialists, who have strengthened you in the European Parliament, the French and Italian centre-left. They come to tell us ideas and come as NGO executives. And I apologise to the NGOs, which many are much more serious than this government rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u577	Please, gentlemen. Go on, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u578	To keep you from confusing, you have a man in front of you who only worked, without getting money from the state or from his party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u579	Where? The ERT?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u580	Gentlemen of the government, there is one question. Don't look. You'll find it hard to start talking. Ask Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou what's wrong with her. Whenever I go to Stepma, she's leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u581	It is a symptom, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u582	Gentlemen of the government, there is one question: Why did you not make the conflict today in spring? Why didn't you do it in March? Why, after you have seen that Europeans are blackmailing, as you say, and that they are ruthless, did you not put the dilemma to the Greek people much earlier? Why did you expect us to arrive in July? Let me tell you why. Because you didn't have a plan, because you didn't have any suggestions. Because you're only improvising. You've confiscated these five months of economy. You have increased black work and unemployment. In hospitals there are already shortcomings in consumables. The phase on the market has become sombrella. And now you're putting a bomb on tourism. Unless you think that a Greece in political turbulence is inappropriate for tourists, as I heard one say in the "Windows", that tourists want to see this tension and the tails. I should inform you that there is already the first information on the Internet that large countries have started the process of issuing a travel directive and are waiting for the Parliament's decision to activate it. I'm telling you this because maybe, in your revolutionary drunkenness, you may have stopped doing the basics of your work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u583	Does Greece have terrorism? What does the travel directive say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u584	I'll tell you what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u585	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u586	I'll tell you what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u587	Not what you want. What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u588	I will tell you what I want and at some point tell you what you want from the Greek people. After you have taken the nominated decision, you should also inform farmers what it means to their lives to get out of the European Union you are proposing to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u589	Did we say we're leaving the European Union?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u590	Tell them how much billions will be lost by 2020. They're losing nineteen billion. Inform about the loss of the ESRB, which is twenty-two billion. They will lose 40 billion by 2020. You should also inform pensioners whether they will continue to receive retirement in the summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u591	Did we say we're leaving the European Union? You say things that don't stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u592	Mr. Balaura, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u593	Let the man speak. Are we bothering either of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u594	Allow me. Do not create a shortage for Mrs Constantopoulos and take a vacation. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u595	But it says things that don't stand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u596	Mr. Balaura, please. Come on, Mr. Theodorakis, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u597	I am afraid, however, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority - and I will tell you - that all of what I have to say to you is not of any interest to you. Not everyone, it's true, but a department is nonetheless of any interest to you. And I'll tell you why. You never lived from your work! You've never lived out of your hands!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u598	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u599	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u600	You've always been...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u601	Who are you addressing? Shame on you! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u602	Rescind now! Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u603	I'll tell you how you lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u604	It's a shame to say that! You don't have the right! We have served the world! You're insulting us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u605	I'll tell you how you lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u606	Rescind now! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u607	Get out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u608	Shame on you! Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u609	Mr. Secretary and Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u610	You never lived from your work. You've always lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u611	You're the one who took them from the Shemite.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u612	What are you talking about? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u613	I'll tell you how you lived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u614	You've been taking them from Simitis and from ERT for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u615	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u616	It's a terrible thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u617	Avoid personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u618	Rescind! Apologise and withdraw, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u619	Mr. Mada!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u620	What are you talking about? How have we lived for so many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u621	I'll tell you. I'll tell you. [[The SYRIZA MPs stand strongly]] You never lived from your work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u622	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u623	Rescind now! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u624	You never lived from your work. You've always lived from party payroll!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u625	It's a terrible thing to do! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u626	Mr. Mada,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u627	What are you talking about? You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u628	Mr. Panjah,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u629	What are we? We're thieves? The tube kid's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u630	Rescind! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u631	Mr. Mada, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u632	To withdraw, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u633	Mr. Mada, please. Mr. Theodorakis,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u634	To withdraw, Mr President! Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u635	Mr. Mada, please! Mr. Theodorakis, avoid deceptive and personal reports and continue. Mr President, let's keep going quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u636	You've been taking them for a lifetime from the Simitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u637	Mr. Barka!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u638	Rescind! Do you hear that? Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u639	Mr. Mada, set an example!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u640	You've been taking them for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u641	Sixty years of work, and you came in, the tube kid, tell us we didn't live from our job! Are you going to tell us about work?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u642	To withdraw what he said. Tell us what we were living for! Where's he headed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u643	You who worked your life, tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u644	You've been taking them for a lifetime. He was digging them with a month!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u645	Gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u646	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u647	Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u648	To withdraw now and then continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u649	Mr. Mada, he doesn't recall! [[The SYRIZA MPs stand strongly]] Mr. Mada, you'll tell me later. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u650	You're very welcome. Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u651	You're a kid in the tube!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u652	Apologise and withdraw!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u653	Continue, Mr. Theodorakis, without personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u654	Say it all! Go ahead and see what happens! You'll hear things...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u655	Mr. Voutsi, give the example. Mr. Mada, you'll talk when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u656	I'm not threatened!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u657	You're gonna hear things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u658	Don't fight! So I was saying there's this unreasonable, ladies and gentlemen....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u659	Finish, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u660	The gentlemen of SYRIZA, not all SYRIZA's gentlemen,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u661	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u662	Apologise! He's made a heavy insult!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u663	Read what I said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u664	That's the place where the ministerial peace...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u665	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u666	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u667	Yeah, but don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u668	What am I supposed to do? Keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u669	SYRIZA's gentlemen think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u670	Apologise!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u671	Mr. Mada, sit down! Mr. Theodorakis, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u672	If the House is yours, tell us to leave! We don't have to be practicing! [[The SYRIZA MPs stand strongly]] So I'm telling you there's a misunderstanding...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u673	No, not at all. That particular thing you said was terrible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u674	What you said was offensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u675	Mr. Balaura!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u676	There's a misunderstanding. You consider that today you can swear with your paid tubers and do not get an answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u677	Where did you work in your life? Crazy-ass!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u678	Tell us what we were living for!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u679	You took it from the Shemite. The Simitis was touching you for a month.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u680	You're looking for...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u681	I can give you a gift and a tumor with the faggots, the pit your people have made for the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u682	Mr. Mada, sit down...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u683	Apologise and continue!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u684	Go seeking, Mr. Theodorakis! Keep drinking, no reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u685	No, sorry. Now! It's a heavy insult!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u686	Come on, keep going!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u687	So I was saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u688	Apologise!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u689	Leave it, Mr. Voutsi will answer. He's ready, he's here and he's told me he's gonna tell me everything and he's gonna do revelations! Wait! Don't fight! So I was saying that a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u690	Keep going now. I see they're calming down. Come on, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u691	So I was saying, and you're not gonna censor me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u692	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u693	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u694	Mr. Amyras, sit down! [[The SYRIZA MPs stand strongly]] Will you finish, Mr. Theodorakis? [[Noise in the Chamber - intense protests from the SYRIZA ward]] Finish, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u695	Mr President, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u696	So, listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u697	You swear. You're terrorizing and swearing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u698	Mr. Theodorakis, do you complete or interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u699	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u700	But don't cause it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u701	So listen, why should you know I'm not used to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u702	Gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u703	Let me have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u704	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u705	So I was saying - and it's not a secret - that many in here are party employees who were paying the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u706	We're elected!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u707	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u708	Aren't you ashamed? Tell us one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u709	Mr. Mada, set the good example!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u710	I'm sorry, since when does the term "party employee" offend you? [[The SYRIZA MPs stand strongly]] I say, then, that you were party officials, who were aspiring to become government officials, and now you come to tell the 40th, the 50th, the 60th, the 60th: “Let us play crowns - letters the fates of the country,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u711	Are you finished, Mr. Theodorakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u712	Let us gamble on the future of our children. Let us risk the country's exit from the European Union. And if it comes out, it came out.” Because, as a government "star" has said, Greeks want dignity before jobs and money. It's the theory of the full ones. The world of work, however, will tell you that man, to have dignity, must have a job. But we said, you even for your right-wing partner, an unemployed person, have chosen a state official from his twenty-six. The driver of the train that takes us to the cliff was the far right seller, which took place after the sell of the "first time left". But, gentlemen of the government, this time your communication storm will not save you. We know in advance what you're going to say, because your imagination has depraved too. 'Europe wanted blood and we resisted.' However, the documents, ladies and gentlemen, which they want to put to a referendum, are also government documents. It's a two-way procedure: I'm making - I'm putting a meter, you, one meter. They're text papers. It was a process in progress. That is why Mr Juncker said on Friday, and in this connection, in this connection, that there are no ultimatums in Europe, together we are making the texts. So what are you going to ask the Greek people? What do you invite him to vote on Sunday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u713	Time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u714	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u715	Allow me. What do you invite him to vote on Sunday?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u716	You won't interrupt. Mr. Theodorakis will be finished and Mr. Voutsis will be given the floor. Here you go, Mr. Theodorakis, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u717	Can you tell us with a phrase what you invite the Greek people to vote? Or are you telling the Greeks and Greek women to write to the lenders, ask for the documents, read them and make a decision? The question, therefore, is one and I fear that, if you exclude a section of the drachma, even a number of SYRIZA Members have not understood it, because if they had understood it, they would have risen up. The false, blackmailing dilemma is: 'Yes' to bad Europe or 'no' to bad Europe? But what answer can the Greek people give this question? Besides - and you should think about it - whatever answer it gives, it will be painful for you. If the people say 'no', you will have a bomb, without money, without allies, and you will not be able to pay the fuel for the planes. And if the people vote 'yes', what are you going to do? Will you come and apply the orders of the lenders? Interestingly, Mr. Tsipras came and said in advance that he would keep the position of the Prime Minister, whatever the outcome of the referendum. That is to say, don't break his leg and lose the referendum and lose power and lose the appointments and lose the veils! And I think it does not honor a leader - as he wants to say - on the left. After having made the decision to lead the drachma lobby, it must be courageous to say 'if I lose, I will leave'. I hope, of course, that the ministers will have the courage - the names are well known - following this fateful decision in the morning to order their banks to transfer their money to Greece, to take the same risk that the Greek people take, to enter the ATM line. [[Applause from the 'basket' side.]] So let's go for the end. We have a question, which is the question of all the Greek people at this time: who is protecting Greece from midnight, when the programme ends? Who protects the statements? Who pays the salaries, after the loan and unscrupulously from the funds, the universities and the municipalities have finished this too? Will you give an answer today to the question of all the Greeks? We have a proposal for you, for you to withdraw the referendum and put your own proposal to the vote if you have. Take the vote and go with it in Europe or are you now making a specific counter-proposal to the institutions! But now! You disagree, you say, with 10% of the institutions' proposals. So say clearly to Parliament what this 10% is, to change it, to see it, to talk about it. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] But you will not, because what you are interested in is your party balances alone. And you don't want to displease anyone, "both with the policeman and the policeman of the party." You prefer to dismantle the homeland in order to salvage the components. [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is being ringed.]] On Sunday, however, the dilemma is one: 'yes' or 'yes', 'yes', 'yes' or 'yes' to the euro'. We don't care about your civilization with the New Democracy for what kind of memorial is worse, blue or pink. We say that Greece may also be without memos. Greece can move realistically and progressively. Greece can change the terms of the game. Changes are out there yelling and you get past them. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want this fight, but we'll win this fight. And I hope there is another left that insists on thinking - and it is in a part of the SYRIZA - and it will finally understand that the path of 'no', 'no', 'no', 'no' is not politics. Politics is to fight for 'yes'. It is not easy, but this is the path of development and social justice. [[At this point the closing bell of the party president's speaking time is being ringed.]] 'Yes', so, in the truth, 'yes' to reforms, 'yes' to national understanding, 'yes' to creation, 'yes' to a European state that gives more to the most! 'No' to lies, 'no' to recession, 'no' to division, 'no' to the tertiary-world experiments of left luxury, 'no' to the native persecutors! The negatives of reality, the extreme right and left populism on Sunday must be defeated and defeated! Greece is ready to live and will live!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u718	With what they have just heard, there has been a personal issue and a collective one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u719	On behalf of all the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u720	A personal question for all those left-wing people - and not just SYRIZA - who, unselfishly within the decades, have offered their sweat, their blood, their leaning, which one to one can account for both their assets and what they served, principles and values rather than bosses and pimps. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I should give the floor to one by one for the staff and collectively created. It is truly regrettable in this Chamber that such challenges should be addressed, and indeed by party leader, by the President of Parliamentary Group. I will give the floor to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Nikos Voutsi, and I believe that he will respond in total for the staff and the collective.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u721	Madam President, personal speech. A phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u722	As much as there is freedom of speech, everyone cannot say what they want in here and above all what they say and who says it. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u723	When you give answers about how you acted,... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u724	Mr. Voutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u725	Mr. Theodorakis, I will not ask you to withdraw. This is the biggest epidemic that can be imposed on you, because it is obvious that with your communication experience you are really doing, in an area that you do not know and in which such challenges are not common to them, and indeed by party leaders, a show, a projection in common sight. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Listen, Mr. Theodorakis. My surprise is how many qualities together you can fit into a presence within Parliament. You have just come from the European Union, where you have made the tour, your tour, you have discussed with people relatives of your party and you have come to represent them within the Greek Parliament. Represent the lenders. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You came to tell us about travel directions - when only in "Eleftherios Venizelos" tourist indulgences are increased by 22% - for a risk of ATM, for the children of "ERASMUS" - in "ERASMUS" I was an ammunition of years ago, you don't know them and well - for children who are disappointed to see this situation, for aircraft fuel. You're ignorant. That's clear. The official state reserves, and according to the legislation - and not only - are sufficient for four to nine months for all fuels, of all kinds. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] If you had done so, if you had had a real interest in a difficult situation that may - and we should all not be approaching this idea - we would be as a country, you should be informed of the country's most expensive reserves in everything. You have already heard Mr Kurubli. I could also tell you about too many things. But you don't care about that. You do not care what the country will do in a difficult situation - if it finds itself in this difficult situation - so that it does not lead to sudden death, such as the ones with which you have been discussing and the ones you represent today want to bring the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You need to know something else, so you don't say it again in this Chamber. And personally, as well as the spirit and values of the Left do not go for hitting under the belt, opening files, talking about faces and things. But I am right to say to you that all the left-wing Members - and not just the left-wing Members - are men and women who have passed decades completely voluntarily on the basis of a scale of life - in tunnels, one - would say, at the same time, working and giving all the rest of their time to structures of social solidarity, to parties and political actions, to races on the road and not just on the road, everywhere in political movements, all of them all and all. Maybe you have no idea, maybe you've come from another country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Even those who have had the opportunity to have a little redress in times very difficult, from all the left parties - even now we are giving half our wages to the party and we and others from other parties much more, I do not want to speak on their behalf - they have always been faithful to the idea of selflessness, solidarity, collectiveness, mass struggles and personal values. They never caused, never had to be intertwined, never had to be market officials. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I'm so sorry to have to tell you these things because you're not yesterday, you're on a course. You have a route. It's a small country and we all know each other, Mr. Theodorakis. And you had your route. You should have known. The challenge you have made and to which you have insisted, which was absolutely conscious, is that it works - perhaps it has not been understood by you - all of the other parties, some of them friends from here who applauded them. Because the party staff of the two parties, which had been in power for thirty-five years, were charged at the same time with work. I'm not saying that they were fed even that they were saprophytes. It's not like that. They had their job in state structures, in CIA, in dozens of agencies. They had their own route. Many of them became ministers, others like this, otherwise. All the employees of the two parties have been unpaid for months, Mr. Theodorakis, and these workers have been fighting for the trouble they have done in these years in order to proceed, because now the state grant may be very small. The route of the political system therefore has no equivalents, no isotopeism, no equal offers and, as far as the Left is concerned, the moral advantage is out of question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u726	Thank you, Minister. The extreme criticality of the situation at home requires a deep awareness of the situation. Mr Pappas has asked for the floor, followed by Mrs Genemas and then by the President of Parliament. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u727	I think that the measure and respect must be something that characterises all the members of the National Representation, and we should also be aware of the moments and circumstances and the place in which we are located. I don't know if anyone's come up with that type of insults that might be politically effective. They do not, however, honor those who eclipse them. And I am saying this because I personally understood that Mr Theodorakis usually finds it difficult to hold private debates - we understood this before - but I honestly did not expect him to cut off before the National Representation something that a secretary told him in the Commission. They said, they said, the secretaries of the Commission said it was the Greek school trip! And that makes a political argument before the House! Bravo! Bravo! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] I hope your communications are alive, so there's more of them coming over here. And because you also said about young children, many young children are watching the House, many children born in 1995 and 1996, say. And you had a relationship with parties, Mr. Theodorakis, and with the state. That's right. You were also involved in the ERT, which I am leading, and in times when there was a slash of resources, which you have denounced with comfort. I want to close here and get to politics. The issue and the problem is not that some in Europe were hoping, believing or struggling with a change in government shape through this story. The problem is that Mr Theodorakis thought this might happen. That is what causes upsetting and arguments at that level. Anyway. Let me go through some of the points in my speech. I would like to say that to us the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, did not order a pretext of negotiation nor a blind break. It has given us the mandate to negotiate responsibly, vigorously, defending the interests of the majority. I am very surprised by the fact that too many opposition MPs choose to speak on other texts in the intervening period and not on the ultimatum, which has been explicitly tabled. Read the decision not of today, but of the previous Eurogroup, where Greece is invited to agree with the proposals of the institutions. Let us not wrap this debate on the currency issue. Don't feed extreme scenarios. What kind of service are we doing here right now? Who's laughing, who's favoured by them? We, ladies and gentlemen, seek an agreement that we want to be economically viable and does not want to have, once again, a recession that will spread the debt and leave Greece out of the common currency open. We want an agreement that is socially fair, that is to say, to allocate the burdens as it should be, to have prospects and to lead Greece to development in a short time, to contain those reforms that will once and for all penalise the conflicts which have fuelled so many years the political system, to face the humanitarian crisis, to face up to the chronic problem of insurance, to create conditions for development. And I would like to say here, to record, that Greece has made every effort and continues to do so. A text was tabled which was welcomed as a basis for discussion and which, in two quarters, had been completely overturned and in the third 24 hours, took the form of a ultimatum to the Greek negotiating team and the Greek government. So what, gentlemen, do you want to answer whether we should say 'yes' or 'no'? Because you have no doubt that the contents of this proposal will not be hidden from the Greek people or in the shadows. The text, therefore, says that it is 'yes' or 'no' to the euro. Anyone voting 'yes' today or openly in favour of 'yes' and the referendum that comes, says 'yes' to tax 23% on restaurants, hotels, catering. If it is considered a development measure, let us disagree. It says "yes" to an increase in income tax from 80% to 100% for legal persons and from 55% to 100% for individual businesses and free trades. Whoever votes 'yes' says 'yes' to abolish the oil subsidy for farmers. This is because I have heard that there is also interest in farmers. It says 'yes' to limit the subsidy for heating oil. Anyone who votes 'yes' says 'yes' to reducing the price of medicines by 50% in all generic and by 32.5%, which will hit the Greek pharmaceutical industry. This is because we have and care for adequacy. It says 'yes' - and here is the great hypocrisy of the partners too - to abolish the proposed - and I would say why not? - something that could come before the referendum in Parliament, a 12% contribution proposal to businesses that had more than 500,000 euros in 2014. That is not what the institutions are proposing. It says 'yes' to the immediate implementation of the zero deficit clause. What are we gonna do about the insurance? Are we going to protect a man or are we going to insist on the same recipe? They have been cut off from insurance 14 billion annually in the years of the memorandum. Are we going to the same recipe? Who applauds the partners' proposal to have 2 billion cuts in pensions? Who and why? Why would that be social law? Why would it be developmental? Who are we going to juste? I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. Development measure and team redundancies? He'll say yes to the lockout. Is that a development measure? It will say 'yes' to the continuation of the suspension of collective bargaining. Is that a development measure too? It will say 'yes' to abolishing the limit of EUR 1,500 in pay and pension seizures. The 'yes', therefore, is not 'yes' in Europe. I don't know who in this Chamber dreams of such a Europe. I do not know who gives excuses to extreme German circles, who are pressing and implementing a policy along with the International Monetary Fund, in order to implement these policies as an adhesive of the Union. How European is it that we pray and swear that the International Monetary Fund will forever be in Europe? How European is it that we get out of this Chamber and say 'yes', for Europe, for Europe will it be difficult for farmers, for islanders? The issue of VAT on the islands must not be left, according to the text of the institutions. How European is that? What European vision does it serve? Who dreamed of this Europe? How unemployment will be? What will the social consequences of implementing this programme be? Why won't he come worse next? What's different from the previous recipe?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u728	From what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u729	You began to say now that we proposed tax raid and austerity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u730	Was it that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u731	Austerity is not, Mrs Vulture, receipts from television licences, nor the business tax should go from 26% to 29%. That's not austerity. This is a fair burden-sharing and you must finally understand it. One proposal was made for the insurance system and we said that for the first time in a while, to keep it balanced, we will increase employers' contributions to 3.9%. Until last year it was more than that. But it bothers them. Who's bothering? Why? I don't understand. Memories, didn't we? Didn't we have any memos? They reduced the employers' contribution for 3.9%, 800 million loss for the insurance system. Where are we going to find them? To abolish the ESS. And that is European! Bravo! It is European, it is progress! Tell the retired 550 euros he'll go to 400! The 'yes', therefore, is not 'yes' in Europe. The "yes" is "yes" in the memoranda and "yes" to the least chance that the old civilian staff want to resurrect and confirm their role. It will not, however, be done, ladies and gentlemen, because this 'yes' will be known and a 'yes' to everything. And this time there is no 'yes' to everything. This time, we can't. And here I would like honestly to say that, for each of these issues, we would also like Vice-Presidents to say that they will support the red line, not to retreat. On the basis of what economic efficiency and social justice can these measures proceed? The 'no', however, of the Greek Government is the 'no' of the Greek people, the 'no' that was allowed to shout, unfortunately, after a long time within the policies of the memoranda. This 'no' will be recorded as a victory for Greece and as a lighthouse for the peoples of Europe, in order to avoid all the unpleasant situations that various centres excel. This is the government that can prevent disaster, which is sure if these policies are implemented. In this unique fair struggle we call on the entire Greek society to participate with the head up, proudly and by closing their ears on the sirens of terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u732	Thank you very much. The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group is called at Step. Madam President, we welcome you in your new capacity. I have two reasons for congratulating you. I was a founding member of the party you were leading, but you were my excellent student. In '88 I put you 'ten' - I think - in labour law. I therefore wish you a good and nationally beneficial service and leadership. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u733	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are very anxiously and concerned about us, and we are obliged, even if we disagree - and we totally disagree - to try through civilised dialogue to find solutions and outlets. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the dangerous policy, the measurable attitude and the secret agenda, as it turns out, you are leading the country to Europe's margin. The Eurogroup is currently meeting without Mr Varoufakis, without Greece and is discussing how to shield the euro in the face of bankruptcy in Greece. What do you have to say about this tragic development? Unfortunately, since Tuesday night Greeks and Greek banks face the risk of staying without support, without coverage. This means that the country is threatened with bankruptcy and the Greek people are threatened with the consequences of a criminal policy. I directly ask the Prime Minister: Are you aware of your responsibility to the Greek people, or have you planned this? You will be called to account as the fatal man for the country. The referendum cannot be held. The Eurogroup has informed that the proposal is no longer on the table, but that the unsubstantiated text you presented was not the final one. So which text do you ask the Greek people to decide on? Rescind your referendum decision and proceed directly to elections. Prime Minister, the lies are over. Today, before the National Representation, it is for you the difficult time of truth. You are due to the Greek people answers and clear explanations. Did you or did you not want to respond to the mandate he gave you in order to ensure that the country stays in Europe under the best possible conditions? Do you want the country's stay in the euro? Yes or no? Why have you misled the Greek people with the election promises, which in your knowledge you could not satisfy? Why were you not honest at the time of the schedule statements? Why did you not implement the Eurogroup agreement of 20 February? You hid it and falsified it to continue the stalking of the Greek people. That's why you didn't bring her to the House, with funny excuses. Why have you not put together a national negotiating strategy with the battle partnership of all the forces of the constitutional arch, with the establishment of a national negotiating team that we have persistently asked for? Why did you break down any prospect of alliance with the countries of the European South? They have exactly the same problems of unbearable austerity and unemployment. However, you have managed to rise against us in the whole of the South and the poorest countries of Europe, even Cyprus. Why in the middle of the negotiation, while confessing to failure and waste of time by replacing the relevant Minister of Finance with the Deputy Minister from another Ministry, did you maintain him at the same time in his position by stepping up the confusion? Was Mr Varoufakis then acting within your mandates? How much did arrogance cost us? Five months after the election, the failed negotiation leads to the absolute deadlock. Instead of taking advantage of the positive results that were based on the very difficult decisions and great sacrifices of the Greek people, you proceeded to the agreement of 20 February, where your programme also left, but the main thing you refused to do was to cover the country's financial needs. You took time without money, Prime Minister! The time not for the country, but for yourself, for your party, for you to draw up the project that you very simply did not have, to understand the real connections and the way in which the European Union operates, which none of this had to do with your fantasies. Mostly, however, you took time for communal or rather propaganda games for your own landing in reality. You did think that everything would be done with creative ambiguity, without considering that the ambiguity of an agreement, when time and money ended, favours no one but the strong partner. For two months after the 20th of February, you paved without a plan, without a hierarchy, with ideas reports. You have reached the point of provoking international anger with suggestions such as well-written tourists. You faced the negotiations as an implementation of the "theory of games", no matter how risk you took over in relation to the country's future. You cannot understand, Prime Minister, that it is the choice of non-financing that has brought the suffocation and liquidity crisis to the economy. You asked for it and the lenders took advantage of your mistakes to force the country even more, harder. You cannot understand that for five months in the country there is a climate of uncertainty and insecurity, which plunges the economy and inhibits any investment activity and forces banks to resort to the exact umbrella of ELA. May I remind you of your achievements in the economy? Tax revenue is less than 1.6 billion against the target in the five-month period. Overdue debts exceed 4.1 billion in April, increasing by 1.1 billion compared with December. The Public Investment Programme is cut by 40% -50%. Underfinancing threatens hospitals, insurance funds and, of course, unemployment policies. Remission is threatening again to appear in the country. The forecasts for primary surpluses are replaced by forecasts for primary deficit, which leads to a large budgetary gap. Just say it: We have found that you have loaded on the backs of the Greeks 3.5 to 4 billion additional measures, the need that your own failure in the economy has created. In this negotiation, you led us. And, indeed, you underestimated our intelligence, saying you reduced the demand for primary surpluses to 1% of GDP in 2015 and 2% of GDP in 2016. Yes, sir. You do not understand that the so-called gain from reducing these objectives is lost by the negative rate of the economy, which leads to a loss of budgetary revenue of EUR 2.7 billion per year. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, since the beginning of this crisis, PASOK has called for political consultation of all the political forces that believe in the European orientation of this country, so that we can all work together to reach a sustainable agreement. You and your party firmly refused this understanding, not only as opposition, but also as government you did not care about our proposals. The framework for the negotiation has been defined by your Government, refusing to overcome dogmatism and idealism, rejecting any proposal for structural changes and reforms. The debate with your partners, on your own responsibility, has been limited solely to what and to what purely budgetary measures the agreement will include, thereby giving easy consideration to the partners to increase their demands. During the critical time, you proposed a package of costs of EUR 8 billion for the years 2015-2016. You chose a mixture of measures that create further recession, affecting Greek households, which is directed against the middle-class, small and medium-sized enterprises, which ultimately undermines the effort to restructure the economy. Because we have seen you propose an increase in VAT on food, hotels, an indirect reduction in pensions by increasing contributions, an increase in the exceptional contribution for medium-sized enterprises, an increase in employers' contributions to small and medium-sized enterprises. Really, Prime Minister, if the partners were to accept your package of tax-support measures of 8 billion, would you ask the Greek people for their opinion? That would probably have some interest. What is the difference between your proposal and that of the partners? Do you think that the Greek people would be proud to pay EUR 8 billion for the mistakes you have made all this time and the damage you have caused the economy? Why have you tabled very few proposals to reduce expenditure? Why didn't you cut public expenditure? In order to be anointed, to create armies of counselors, relatives and friends? Why is there no significant reform or structural change in your proposals? Is it so that you don't lose the political customers who monopolize your interest? You have now complained that the funding proposed by the partners is not sufficient. Yes, sir. But what did you do for five months? You remember today? Until yesterday you said that you had reached the nearest five of the deal. You have never raised a public issue to secure the country's funding. How did you come to your proposal for the 8 billion euros without having guaranteed funding for the needs of the Greek economy? And I would remind you here that, on a repeated basis, the PASOK has put this question to you. And if you really don't want a third memorandum, why did you let the big opportunity for the preventive credit line that would ensure our exit to the markets and there was a Eurogroup decision in this regard? Of course, the responsibilities do not belong to you alone. Repeatedly, in particular in recent years, we have referred to extreme proposals from the partners and asked for their withdrawal. For example, 23% VAT on the focus, on tourism, on overtaxation of farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises. We have referred to a number of circles between the partners, who want Grexit and the need to deal with them. We asked you one thing. You can assure us in practice that you will put the national interest above the party, that you will ensure that Greece stays in Europe and in the euro area. Unfortunately, I fear that with your choices you will facilitate those who do not want Greece in the euro, who have been practicing Grexit for years. That leads to the referendum you propose. Whatever the result, this referendum leads to a dead end. Why, really, and if you still win, why would the partners change their attitude? We have been told for years that, yes, they respect the desire of the Greek people, the verdict of the Greek people, but that we too must respect the democratic choices and decisions of the other peoples of Europe. You chose to submit to the vow and drachma preachers. You have a responsibility to take responsibility for the decision to keep the country in the Eurozone and to ensure the prospect of growth, even now, Prime Minister. Because there are some more particularly critical, ruthless questions that cannot be left unanswered. From you, who become the preacher of 'no' and the break, the people are entitled and demanding some more clear answers. Before all, what will 'no' mean? What mechanism or rule ensures how the negotiation will continue if the ‘no’ prevails? What plan is there to fund the country and the bank's liquidity the next day? How will wages and pensions be paid? What is the next package of measures to be imposed by the government to deal with the crisis? How will the Greek citizen decide if he doesn't know what this other road is at last if he doesn't know exactly what's waiting for him? Or will 'no' in the institutions bring the final end of the crisis as magic? Do you have anything specific to tell us? If you have it, say it now! Now's the time! Only don't tell us again that the connections in Europe will change. Because we need to finally speak the language of the truth. Behind these choices, bankruptcy is hidden. And bankruptcy will be a national humiliation. Five months after the election, your failed negotiation led to a dead end. You drive the country into a very large national adventure. The referendum decision is not a brave act, it is not an act of resistance. You divide the Greeks, so you don't split SYRIZA. That's the truth! You are trying to encroach on the citizens in a false dilemma, with incalculable cost for the country. The call for a referendum, on the occasion of the unknown agreement with the partners, drags the country into a dangerous adventure and entangles the Greek people in dilemmas, which so far has never faced: 'Yes' or 'no' to the euro. 'Yes' or 'no' to the European perspective of the country, 'Yes' or 'No' to Europe eventually. That's the dilemma you're putting them in. This is the real question of the referendum, and we respond clearly to the Greek people: we say 'yes' to the euro, 'yes' to the country's European perspective, 'yes' to Europe, unnecessarily. You offer the worst service for your country at the most critical moment. You choose the rupture, which is equivalent to a disaster for Greece, for the Greeks, for the new generations, because it leads to the poverty, before all, of the workers, the employees, the retired, the scientists, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the new generation, the unemployed who hope and expect to find jobs in their country. The break and return to the drachma is a regression of decades. It is not a solution for the country's present and future. In addition, the rupture leaves the country exposed to challenges and tensions of a cash situation and a dangerous era in the Balkans and the Mediterranean. You are blackmailing the will of the Greek people, with a referendum within five days without any opportunity to inform citizens and democratic dialogue. You did not have the mandate to leave Greece from the euro. You didn't have a mandate to play the fate of the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is not "the first time left" to constantly create conspiracy theories. It is not "first time left" discord and division. It is not "first time left" to play the fate of the country in dice. It is not "the first time left" to move constantly with the logic "you have no right to speak". We are entitled to speak and we are going to talk, because we have put our backs on the difficult, at a very great cost. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] We, above PASOK, over the party, over our party, put the interest of the Greek people and the country. You've been awkward all this time, awkward and at the very last time you don't have the right to be sharers. We are entitled to speak, because you are inferior to the circumstances. Doubtful, contradictory, meteorious, victim of your five-year-old, inaccurate, inexpensive and populist rhetoric. You claimed through a false dilemma "memorandum-antimony". Now that this dilemma is falling apart, as your alternative proposal was neither an alternative nor an alternative proposal, you are trying to create a new dilemma to continue to exist. The 'yes' or 'no' in Europe, however, is neither a solution nor a narrative for the country. The 'yes' or 'no' in Europe is a crossroad for the country itself. The 'yes' or 'no' in Europe raises new walls, which we must break with more solidarity, with more democracy, with a more social state. It is not enough to 'no', ladies and gentlemen. We need to fight for a change of relations in Europe. Neoliberal policies will not change with Member States suicides and graphic references to Cugie or to Tuuli playing the Zaloggos dance. We don't deserve that picture we've seen since last night. The citizens who form tails outside the banks' automatic machines, so that most of what can be lifted? The little money they have left. We've been coming back for years, and really only strong is not that message to the partners. And I close, Prime Minister, saying that there is no need for a referendum. Do not try to avoid the ransom for Greece and your Greek confession of weakness and failure. You will not be able to escape, trap Greek citizens into questions about what they want or what they do not want. Greek citizens know very well. They want progressive governance, which will not ask them whether Greece must remain in Europe, but will have the will, the ability, the determination to ensure once and for all this unnecessarily national acquisition of participation in European events. We believe in democracy. We have great confidence in the verdict of the Greek people, in the judgment of each Greek and every Greek. I am addressing the Greek people, the citizens, the people who have lifted the burden of the crisis, to tell them that their sacrifices, their own efforts are at risk at one time by a decision. I address my country's young people and young people to tell them that their future is in Europe. Together, we will fight to live in a European country and not in an isolated country, 'blacks' between the West and the East. I call on young people and young people to take the case in their hands, claim, demand, impose the European future of the country, to make a clear choice. The hope, despite the difficulties, is in Europe. In conclusion, I would like to address the President of the Republic, with the request to protect the constitutional order and the European perspective of the country. His role is decisive. Our question is this: Mr President, will you accept that you will be the President who will monitor Greece immediately from the euro? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u734	Thank you, Madam President. The President of Parliament, Mr Zoe Konstantopoulou, has the floor. Madam President, how much time do you want? If it were up to me, I would give you unlimited consideration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u735	Ten minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u736	The President of the New Democracy, Mr Antony Samaras, has then asked for the floor. Here, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u737	Ladies and gentlemen, seventy years were completed yesterday by the establishment of the United Nations, immediately after World War II. The United Nations was founded by the peoples and declared in the preface to the Charter: "We the peoples of the United Nations determined to save the coming generations from the scourge of war which twice in the years has brought us to human tribulation, again proclaim our faith in fundamental human rights, dignity and human value, in equal rights for men and women and large and small nations, to create conditions under which there can be justice and respect for the obligations arising from the treaties and other sources of international law, to contribute to social progress and to the improvement of living standards in greater freedom". Humanity experienced a nightmare period under the German boot and under the Nazi occupation. Peoples and leaders have grown up and realised that, in order for prosperity to be prosperous, there must be a parity between the states and the nations, that respect must be guaranteed, that human rights must be safeguarded, including, in the universal declaration of the United Nations, a standard of living capable of guaranteeing everyone, their health and wellbeing, food, clothing, housing, medical care and the necessary social services. Seventy years ago, the nations and people declared that every man has the right to unemployment insurance, disability, widowhood, old age, as well as all other cases where he lacks the means to maintain him because of circumstances independent of his will. Can anyone be proud of the current humanitarian crisis in Greece, created by policies pursued by governments of Member States and the UN? Can anyone be proud that through the memoranda this collective, universal and universal commitment to 'never again' is justified? Are there still people who wonder what 'no' means and do not feel registered in our collective memory the legacy of this 'OH' once said by the Greek people, who once said by the Greek people, when there were peoples saying 'yes' to everything? The Greek people recorded the longest resistance. He paid a heavy price for that resistance. He was honored and mentioned that Greeks did not fight as heroes, but heroes like Greeks! But at that time he made the difficult choice: the choice of freedom, the choice of dignity, the choice of resistance! But Europe was founded on the same lesson, in the lesson that partnership, peaceful coexistence and parity are needed, in order to avoid terrible situations for mankind. And so it is a wonder that those who represent the nightmare of totalitarianism, those who question the foundations of the European idea, namely the well-being of the peoples and societies, those who claim inequality within the European Union in violation of the Treaties, and those who claim democracy to retreat to the cheques and ultimatums which do not serve peoples and societies, but interests, financial, banking and financial. It is impressive indeed to hear so many reactions about this top choice of the Greek Government and the Prime Minister to honour democracy, to ask the people, to ask the unemployed, to ask the young. And, Prime Minister, the opportunity will be given next Sunday and the 100 000 young people who did not vote on January 25 because the previous situation was afraid of their vote, the eighteen people will be given the opportunity to express themselves. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It is a wonder to fear or fear so many so much the expression of the popular verdict, to be so afraid of the people and democracy. And I cannot, in fact, think of greater political failure, greater political and moral decline and defeat from trying to prevent the referendum by intoxicating and terminating. We have also heard of a motion of censure, which some have even thought of it being tabled after the twelfth, in order to achieve greater prolongation of the debate and to prevent the democratic, constitutional process that has been initiated. If some people consider this, they can take it out of their minds, because it is an extreme anti-constitutional, coup d'état, a coup d'état similar to the coups that took place within the European Union, in order to change the leaderships in Greece and Italy. The 'coup d'état' also belongs to Mr Barroso's former advisor, Mr Legrain. The coups that are so affectionate, we also see some people today accept them poorly. I have listened with interest to representatives of the old political system, to what sacrificed the Greek people - and when you sacrifice someone without his will, this is not called a sacrifice, it is called a crime - to say that there was a Eurogroup meeting today without a representative of Greece and to rejoice or accept it. Do you know of the principle of unanimity? Do you know, that it is an extremist violation of European treaties that people can understand that without consensus they can issue communiqués, allegedly, in common or expel any equivalent Member State from collective bodies, even if the Eurogroup is not - and you know - even an institution? It is a great disappointment that the government is addressing the people. He'll live with disappointment! We also heard a great deal of frustration and misery from other Eurogroup members. It's none of their business. The democratic process of placement of the people, its verdict, cannot be hampered and cannot be harassed by any other leadership. This is also a European principle. And Europe does not give it to those who cannot even conceive and understand its fundamental principles. The lenders are clear that they are conducting an experiment in Greece, an experiment in subjection, an experiment in the dying of and punishment for a people who are called upon to accept indisputably to pay a debt that does not belong to them. Because they know and knew in advance - and this was also the subject of the investigation by the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt and the subject of its preliminary findings - that this debt has not been viable since 2010 and, of course, it has never been sustainable nor can it be made by means of Memorandum Regulations sustainable. They knew it very well and those who applauded Mr Papaconstantinou, who did not cause a sorrow to the creditors. The representatives of the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, as they know and know very well, were aware that the memoranda did not save the Greek people. That is why the expression'rescue programme' is extremely challenging. The memoranda was preserved, signed and recorded, the French, German and Greek private banks. And, of course, they saved their asses and those who link interests to those interests that have been triggered. What we are watching is unfolding from the media, which indeed act as modern spirals, is an attempt to terrorise the people, to fear the referendum, to be afraid to free themselves from debt and extortion, to fear to give confidence to their dignity, their life, its sovereignty as a self-determination people worth more than you have forty years. I feel the need to say that no citizen has anything to fear from democracy. Democracy is liberating. Democracy strips both the interests and the methods. Democracy ultimately obliges everyone and everyone to respect the one who is truly sovereign. And that's the people! The referendum will therefore, by voting in favour of the absolute majority in Parliament, be an act of sovereignty, and it will also be an act of democracy. Those who have not found a reason for for forty years have not found a reason to activate the people's constitutional prediction of decision, let them respect that for the first time a government has been found - and it is important that the government is with the youngest Prime Minister, it is important that it is the government with a torso of left, that is the government with a core of anti-immemorandum struggle consistently, with words and works - which returns to the people and in practice its power. This process that has been initiated, no one can prevent it from being led by any method, nor by any concentration called for by creditors in participation, nor by undermining banking or any other type, because our people, the citizens of this place, are tired, ladies and gentlemen, are sick of intimidating them, they have decided to take their fate and fate in their hands! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And they don't do it manually, as you would like. They do with stubbornness, optimism, with reference to the history of this place and here of the people who said "no" and "nazism, totalitarianism and dictatorship. They do so by reference to the Constitution, which has so many times been violated by memorials, in the Constitution what honors the top reference to the struggles and movements, the reference to the old celebrity article of the Constitution, in 1-1-4, in Article 114 of another era which is Article 120 of the Constitution and says that respect for the Constitution, devotion to home and democracy is a fundamental obligation of all Greeks. Compliance with the Constitution depends on the patriotism of the Greeks who are entitled and are obliged to resist by any means against anyone who attempts to destroy it by force. It is an attempt to break down the Constitution and democracy by the ultimatum of 25 June. It is an attempt to prevent the referendum. And in these attempts at violent devastation of democracy, our people know how to resist and resist their vote, with an optimism, with determination and historical democratic reference! Members of Parliament will do the same - most of them here in Parliament, because this Parliament will show that parliament is not blackmailed and, above all, they are not blackmailed by ex-institutional factors trying to substantiate them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u738	Thank you, Madam President. We are calling on the President-in-Office of the New Democracy, Mr Antony Samaras. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u739	Ladies and gentlemen, following a negotiation literally theater of irrationality, the Tsipras Government leads the country to a referendum on parody. And what the Greek people will have to decide is not 'yes' or 'no' to the proposal for the 8.5 billion austerity proposed by the Troika or the other proposal for 8 billion austerity proposed by the Tsipras Government. What the Greek people will be called upon to decide is 'yes' or 'no' in Europe and in the euro. We - and I say it from the outset, and I say it clearly in every tone - want the Greeks to be stable in the heart of Europe. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are not choosing between that or the other agreement which is a little different from each other anyway. We are in favour of Europe, while the referendum proposal drags our country out of Europe. And then one must say, if we are realistic, what referendum? Negotiations are over. They took off the Greek Finance Minister from Eurogroup. The eighteen Eurozone continue without Greece. Extension we requested, we didn't get. On Tuesday night our country will be without a programme, without the protective umbrella of the Eurozone. The lenders, the foreigners, are already discussing the so-called Plan B. What exactly will be in the referendum? A proposal to negotiate that no longer exists in a programme that will be over? You lost issues, it seems to me, and you're at least a phase back. You failed, Mr. Tsipras. You failed in everything, dramatically and with a blow. You promised the people a better deal, but within the euro you failed both promises you made. You have brought a much worse agreement, an unacceptable agreement and, furthermore, today you are systematically driving us - I would say - out of Europe and the euro. The agreement you bring is the worst of every previous memorandum and I am not saying just about what the lenders are proposing. I say about what you yourself have proposed and to which you say - and I remind you - that you have fully and fully met all the requirements of the lenders. Here's the attachment, please. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here is your proposal, Mr Tsipras, with eight times more austerity than e-mail Hardouvelis. It's a memorial, it's for the fifth evaluation of the memorial you've systematically found for years. It's the exact opposite of what you promised. You promised 11 billion benefits and you bring eight billion meters. This is your personal nightmare now, Mr. Tsipras. The increase in VAT in hundreds of species you suggested when we had refused the increases and reduced VAT in the focus. The increase in the solidarity levy you have proposed. We had reduced it. The increase in insurance contributions you have proposed. We had reduced it. The increase in health care contributions to the basic pension you suggested and then took it back. The abolition of VAT rebates on the islands, you have proposed it. We refused her. You finally got her back. The lenders just added a few more. And really, Mr. Tsipras, why didn't you bring your own proposal for a referendum? Why should you, too, be celebrating it? It's just the day before that you put this wide signature on your own proposal to lenders. A proposal that is extremistly tax-free, with no sign of a development perspective. A proposal that your own Minister, Mr Varoufakis, himself, said would lead to unemployment. He said it was material. A proposal your ministers publicly stated that the infamous e-mail Hardouvelis was a game before it and dozens of Members declared that they would not vote for it. I'm always talking about your own proposal. And you come today, without a signal of apologies, to put in a referendum the proposal of lenders that is little different from yours. And what you have complained about today on the proposal of lenders, you have caused most, you have signed them, you have recommended them. You are the moral author of the proposal you are denounced today, Mr Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Until this morning, two suggestions were on the table. The offer of lenders and your suggestion. If you have the courage, get out to the Greek people, defend your own proposal. So you have led to a terrible result of even more horrendous negotiation. And now you are leading to even greater destruction with a referendum that will not actually be judged by her or the other, good or bad agreement. It will be the very eve of our country in Europe and the euro. And what exactly do you raise as a critical national issue? A non paper, a working paper of troika service actors? Are we all right? Now that creditors reject the extension, there is no object anyway. And what will you ask the Greek people to decide? A sentence in a negotiation that has been closed? You have led to a humiliation situation and you are driving our democracy into an institutional parody.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no! You can't go up now, you're not right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u741	Get down! Get off now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u742	You can't sit in the Chair. Get off now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u743	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u744	What are you laughing at? The Rules of Procedure refer to Rule 66.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u745	What does the Rules of Procedure say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u746	Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u747	Gentlemen, respect your party president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u748	Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u749	Respect your president. Come on, Mr. President, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u750	Madam President, I am sorry, but Article 66 has been in force in this Chamber for for forty years. You are President of Parliament and you do not know it. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u751	Mr. Samaras, continue your speech. I am well aware of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u752	Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u753	Down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u754	You're a number!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u755	Prime Minister, the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u756	Mr. Tsipras, he's breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u757	That's right, Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u758	Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u759	Mr. Samaras, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u760	Open Article 66.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u761	Respect your party leader.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u762	You respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u763	You do it on purpose!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u764	We must not allow it. That's not a situation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u765	Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u766	Mr. Metropoulou, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u767	You don't have the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u768	You're interrupting the speech of Chief of Officer Responsibility. Mr. Samaras, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u769	Get down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u770	Mr. Samaras, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u771	Mr. Metropoulou, get down! The Rules of Procedure are in breach!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u772	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u773	Keep going, Mr. Samara.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u774	You do it on purpose. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u775	Madam President, you were up exactly when I was talking about an institutional paradox. You shouldn't do that. I was talking about an institutional parade at that time. You should know - you may be a new colleague, but you are a President of this House - that the President of this House is forbidden to violate the Rules of Procedure of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u776	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u777	You did it on purpose, that's the truth. It's a disgrace to what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u778	It's the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u779	Why are you breaking him?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u780	Mr. Samaras, continue your speech. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u781	Prime Minister, we're talking to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u782	It is clear here that you are trying to create tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u783	You should be ashamed of yourself. Get down! Prime Minister, we're talking to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u784	Gentlemen of the New Democracy, sit in your seats, because everyone's behavior violates the Rules of Procedure. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] Mr. Brutsi, sit down. Mr. Georganta, Mr. Kyriazides, Mr. Mitaraki, Mr. Kikilia, Mr. Stamatis, Mr. Kedicoglou, sit at your seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u785	Madam President, you've done too much. You're not a dictator! You're President of the House! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you, Mr. Tsipras, pick her up. He's not the President of Parliament, he's the president of your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u786	Shame, shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u787	It's disgraceful! You should be ashamed of yourself, you fake democrat!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u788	You don't respect anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u789	You're being anti-parliamentary. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] The way you address the Prime Minister is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u790	Laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u791	Mr. Georgiades, you will either sit in your place or leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u792	Get down. What's the problem with going down? Why isn't he coming down? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u793	My fellow Members want to leave, leave. [[This is where the New Democracy Parliamentary Group leaves the Chamber.]] If you continue to disturb the functioning of the process, in fact what you confirm is that you are looking for an opportunity not to place yourself on the referendum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u794	Go on, get your way. I'm humiliated!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u795	Out, humiliates!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u796	Let me say the following.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u797	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u798	Prime Minister Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u799	Madam President, I believe that historical responsibility at such a critical time for the country and at such an important meeting, which is very interesting, not only for the Greek people, but I have the feeling that the eyes are on us right now, it requires all of us to be sober... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Above all, it requires all of us to carry out a process in which I believe it is worthy of all of us who are serving parliamentaryism and democracy. I would therefore ask you - I know of course that there are some who do not want this procedure to be completed properly, but I do not think we should do the favour of those who do not want this procedure to be completed properly - to interrupt for ten minutes. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, this will also enable you to rejoin the Chair that you spoke beforehand. And in this time I would ask the Chief of Officer's Representation and his MPs to return to the Chamber and normally complete his speech by the Chief of Officer's Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u800	I think that the Prime Minister's invitation to sobriety and respect for a process that is top and no one is entitled to benefit should put all and all of us in repetition. I think that if the spirits calm down, we'll be taking a ten-minute break... [[Applause]] ...and we'll come back with the speech of the Chief of Officership.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u801	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Let me turn to this House. Firstly, the whole of Europe and the whole world are watching us and we must guard the image of the Greek Parliament. As President of Parliament, I have an obligation - and so I understand - to exhaust my ability to carry out my duties. I also have the ethical obligation, which I am trying to apply unreservedly, to prescribe, when the Presidents of Parliament are speaking, much more so, the President of the Officerial Response, who is the fourth institutional pillar of democracy, as we all know, and of course the Prime Minister. It is true that under the Rules of Procedure the President of Parliament or the President of Parliament speaks from the Chair and if he wants to come to the essence of the debate, speaks from the Step. It does not come back to the Chair until the debate on the subject is over, which is a matter of interpretation at all times. In this respect, acceding to the all-voice notion that I should not have returned to the Chair... [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] I'm going to join it. As President of Parliament, I had to decide between two tasks. I chose to honor the Chief of Staff and preside over. However, since I realise that this is being used to create a picture of the dismantling of Parliament from those who might not want a democratic process, on the other hand, because there is really no reason to seek to give this kind of honour if it causes the opposite result... [[Noise - Protests in the Chamber]] ...for this reason and because this process of referendum, which, with great responsibility, bold and brave, began by the Prime Minister in his proposal to the Ministerial Council, then the Government concludes, no one is entitled to either undermine nor undermine it with pretexts, I call on one of the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Metropoulou, to chair until the end of the meeting, on the other hand, the Chief of Officerial Representation to return and to conclude his speech, and of course to place the Members of the parties in a prestigious constitutional and democratic process, as appropriate in a democracy. So we're interrupting for five minutes, so that the Chief of Staff will come and be replaced in the Chair. Prime Minister, I will have the pleasure of listening to you as a listener underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u802	We are calling on the President-in-Office of the New Democracy, Mr Antony Samaras. Here, Mr President, your time is recalculated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u803	My speech has indeed been interrupted despite the clear Rules of Procedure of the House. The President now told me that he wanted to honor me, so as he did not have to go to the Step. I'm terrified of thinking what he would do if he didn't want to honor me. [[applause - laughers from the New Democracy ward]] And in any case, as our people say, from such prices 'we should be missing the sour cherries'. So I was saying that the best mirror for what is happening today with the negotiation is exactly what is happening in front of the ATMs, the banks, the supermarkets. Because in the meantime, the country is kneeling not only from the measures, which seem to come but mainly from the recession caused by government policy and caused by the government as soon as it came to it, without even taking any measures. The cost of inertia Tsipras for five months is estimated at EUR 4 billion, over 800 million per month. If I ask, I prove it, but it's an incredible cost. Without taking any measures, you have plunged the country back into the recession with the terrible insecurity you have created. Everyone is afraid of what will dawn tomorrow at the internal payment stop you made - you are not paying anyone - with the liquidity suffocation that you yourself created, since meanwhile you wiped out everything that was available from the insurance funds, the municipalities, the hospitals, thus drowning the market. In short, you screwed up. How will you pay the people you owe in the country? Leave the people you owe outside, but the ones you took them into the country, how are you gonna spend them? How are you gonna put back the available ones you got? Are you going to make a referendum on them, too? And now you tell us that right after the referendum you are proposing, you will also be going to make an honest agreement. I heard that today. With who? Did they get over it? Who's gonna approve her? Will you call a referendum again? And what do you think of what you're finally saying? A few days ago, didn't Mr. Tsipras assure us that there is no possibility of a referendum by a government with a fresh people's mandate? What's the fresh order now? Did you forget her? Did he catch up? Continuous lies. So now you've changed. You call on the people not to vote against a bad agreement, but to approve the European Union's own cut-off. Was that your pursuit, however, from the beginning? Is that why you promised election things that couldn't be done? Is that why you post-electionally wasted so much valuable time while knowing that the Tsipra account is coming up? Is that why you're telling the lies that it's cleaned up, that's how the deal was constantly the new one that didn't exist? And that's why you let the bill go so badly now that it becomes unbearable and any proposal, even the one you yourself suggested to the lenders? Is that what was hiding behind the famous nonsense of creative ambiguity? You mean to waste time and trap the Greek people like that? Did you go there from the beginning? To take the country out of the euro with two moves, with the January elections you provoked, taking the government with lies, when Greece came out of the memorandum and then with the deadlock that you created as a government to finally drag the Greek people out of the euro? This is now quite clear, because you yourself had disapproved the respective referendum that George Papandreou proposed in November 2011 with all the rest of us, which we all had disapproved. Why? Because he was driving the country into bankruptcy, getting out of the euro. What did you then say in the TV interview about the Papandreou referendum? "If the Prime Minister himself attempts to put such a dilemma, bankruptcy will occur real rather than hypothetical." You then completed immediately: "The collapse of the banking and economic system will occur long before we reach the poll, only with the possibility of putting this dilemma in place and getting a negative answer". It's yours. But that is exactly what we are talking about today. You propose precisely the same thing with the same result, bankruptcy and exit from the euro. After all, your Minister himself, Mr. Varoufakis, in a recent television interview, said, "Unfortune lies. If a referendum is held, it will be a referendum on the euro - Varoufakis said - 'And I think it is unfair that the Greek citizen should answer such a dilemma with a 'yes' or 'no'. That is what the Prime Minister said in November 2011 - I beg of the Minutes - and exactly what Mr Varoufakis said. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antony Samaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the referendum - you said it - amounts to bankruptcy and exit from the euro. This referendum should therefore not be held. But, if it is done, we will vote directly not on any agreement, but we will vote directly on the country's euro stay, because the 'no' that you propose is equivalent to an exit from the euro and from Europe. Don't make a mistake. It's equivalent to suicide. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There's one more thing I want to say. The referendum you are proposing has nothing to do with democracy or national sovereignty. It has nothing to do with democracy, a referendum on a question that is not clear, where others will vote for the euro, but it will be against the agreement and others will vote against the agreement, but it will be in favour of the euro. It has nothing to do with democracy, a referendum which is in danger within a few days of tearing down what Greece was building and the Greek people have been conquering for forty years. It has absolutely nothing to do with national sovereignty to ask a country that is constantly loaned by its partners. National sovereignty and dignity - to say it at last - is to stop asking for credit. That's where we got Greece. SYRIZA brings her back to the need for borrowing and has the courage now, at the moment, to speak of national sovereignty. You led the country into bankruptcy to drag it out of the euro. Mr. Tsipras doesn't handle a problem. It's the problem. He received an economy in development, with surpluses. You plunged her into the deficits again in the recession. There was no question of bankruptcy. It was created by this government. Greece in previous years has normally paid its credit obligations, which had been cut to about 1/3. Whether we were taking the dose or not we were absolutely consistent and this restored stability within the country and - do not make a mistake - and our credibility abroad. Within five months you leveled Greece on the charge of Zambia. In the past few years there has been no stress, no anxiety to any Greek for the payment of wages and pensions. Now it's created. There was no internal payment stop. Now it's created. There was no internal forced lending. Now it's created. You have won the elections that you have provoked by denouncing the measures for 980 million e-mail Hardouvelis. You've ruined the world. Now he proposes eight billion euros. He alone created the need for eight-fold measures. So Mr. Tsipras is the perpetrator, not the victim. Greece is the victim of Mr. Tsipras, who wants the Greek people as his accomplice. It has already isolated the country in Europe. Now what are you doing? You know it and you do it, you divide the Greek society between a very bad agreement and an absolute catastrophe, because the way out of the euro that leads the country is the total disaster. For us our European identity is a conquest for Greece, the most important conquest for the country after the restoration of democracy. Integration into the euro is a full guarantee of our European identity. Why, then, on this valuable national element, do you cause national division, when there are peoples - and we read it every day, have you seen them in Europe, unless you have not seen them around you - who fight and fight and fight to enter the European Union? You call on the Greek people to actually decide to come out of the United Europe, because what you are proposing is an exit from Europe, not just from the euro. Here Martin Schultz, the socialist President of the European Parliament, just a few days ago, said that if Greece ceases to pay its obligations, it should not expect it to collect from the Community funds. In other words, it will be at risk of losing all subsidies and Community funds and the NSRF. We're talking about billions every year. At the same time, the Greeks' incomes will fall below half, product prices will be launched twice or more. That would mean an exit from the euro. Note: You who ask people to vote 'no' can you guarantee that the next day there will be money to pay wages and pensions and in what currency? The only ones who will benefit from what you are getting used to are the drachma lobby and they really represent you. Their plan really serves, they will only win, they will be rich sharply to the detriment of the entire Greek people. For millions of Greek citizens, for Greek society as a whole, however, this will be a true Armageddon, a biblical disaster without precedent in peacetime. Let me tell you one thing: why, Mr Tsipras, since you are introducing 'no' to the people, do you not go tell the outsiders yourself? You are the Prime Minister, you have negotiated, your responsibility is governance. Why don't you tell strangers "no" right away? Why are you hiding behind the Greek people? I'll tell you why. Because you know that 'no' means that we are going bankrupt and that you cannot take it. And you know that you don't have an order for this from the Greek people. Plus, you're afraid of it. And so you drag the people to decide a "no" without telling him what it means, because that's exactly what you planned to do from the start, to drag the people out of the euro. To satisfy your idealism, you are consciously harming the Greek people. We've long seen the deadlock coming, we've seen the account grow. We have proposed that you as the only way out for the country, not for you, the great deal of understanding, to stay on the European road, and that is what we are proposing to you right now. Don't be silly about a referendum. It's a travesty. It's a coup. Everyone understands it. You're going to join the understanding that today is going to happen anyway. And if you don't give up your thoughts and weights, it'll happen without you. Greece will stay in Europe and the euro! Greece will not commit suicide with you! The Greek people will not do that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why we are voting not on any agreement, which can then be changed, because if the opposite happens then, ladies and gentlemen - and that is why we have historical moments in this House - there will be no return. Our people will lose much and will not be able to correct the huge error that has been done. And that's why he won't allow it. That is why we call on all European forces in our country to cancel these devastation plans. I call on all European forces to cancel the SYRIZA coup. We call on the people who insist on 'persistent Europe' to express in a peaceful, unified, democratic way and also massively and decisively its opposition to this coup in Athens and to express it in all the major cities. The coup will not cross the place where democracy was born. European ideals will not be defeated at the place they were born. Greece is our soul, but Europe is our identity. Both of them go together. We will not allow anyone to make Greece Zambia or Venezuela and drag our country decades back. Greece is not just a country. It's power, it's soul. It's a symbol of culture and that force rises. That soul is awakening. This symbol today unites millions of Greeks. We have in our history defeated very powerful and very insidious opponents. With unity, we will win. With democracy, we will win. And I'm not just talking about victory - don't make a mistake - political parties. I'm not talking about winning faces. I am talking about the struggle and victory of every Greek and every Greek woman who knows that the best future of their children is in Europe. The European ideals that are Greek ideals will win. And our party is based on the Greeks' mind and conscience. That's what I think they're waking up now, getting up. That's what we're gonna win. We're the most. We're standing up and we're determined not to pass this coup. You will soon become a past that few will want to remember, Mr. Tsipras. Greece will, however, remain Greece and an integral part of Europe, with growth not with a tax storm. With unity, not with divisive slogans. With modern democracy, not with populism and extremism. With true prosperity that can't give up the great party state you're promoting. With true dignity, not by hand, constantly begging strangers. Greece is now renowned for good. So I conclude, but again I ask: What referendum are we talking about? A coup you have attempted, but no longer an object. Expansion of the Greek program no longer exists. Negotiation is closed, it's over. They took Greece out of the Eurogroup room at which the rest of the eurozone finance ministers meet. There is no longer any object in the referendum. The plan B is coming and you are still discussing whether we will accept the last proposal from Plan A. I've heard of rebels for no reason. But I've never seen the first thing I've seen. And listen, Mr. Varoufakis is already refreshing it. He complained this afternoon because they were raped, he says, our Eurozone partners rejected the extension because - as Mr Varoufakis has always said - there is a lot of chance that the Greeks could vote for 'yes', although their government recommended 'no'. At the same time, it calls on the other members of the Eurozone to relaunch the negotiation he has made, promising that his 'no' government' to the referendum could also turn into 'yes'. This government is so serious! What can anyone say? Unbelievable incoherence, prudence, austerity, urgency in the most difficult times that the place is going through. That's where you reached your government. But the country tells you here, from New Democracy, loudly, we will not let you dismantle it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u804	We invite Prime Minister Alexio Tsipras to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u805	Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is of historic importance. I could be wasting time and answering the Chief of Officer's Response. I think it makes no sense to do it. And it doesn't make any sense to do it, because it's historic. This time there is no point in a micro-party controversy. There is no Greek who does not know what you have done, what you have left, how you have escaped, while, if you continued, you would bring us no eight but sixteen billion, on the basis of the primary surpluses that the partners have set, the lenders at 3% and 4.5%. But that makes no sense. We are now confronted with history. We must now assume our responsibilities, say stark and honest. What is the point of another confrontation between Parliament and, after all, in the middle of the night, on your own responsibility, that you did not want the President to be present during your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u806	Hey, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u807	It's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u808	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u809	Ladies and gentlemen, today will indeed remain in history in black color, in our common European history in black colours, not only because some have decided outside and beyond the institutional process, outside and beyond the common regulations of the European Union and its treaties, to meet with the Council of Eurozone Finance Ministers, excluding an equal partner, and that is not something that one can rejoice about. Our country is and some are blocking our country from a process without any right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u810	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u811	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u812	It will, however, remain in black letters in European history as a day when, on a European Council, on that of the finance ministers, a sovereign people's right to decide democratically on their future was called into question. Today, the finance ministers, with the exception of many others that have been put differently, have they actually told us what? They told us that they did not allow democracy to breathe. The Greek people's response to this choice must be pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not ask the country where democracy was born to give the floor to the Greek people! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We will not ask for permission from Mr. Shoeble and Mr. Dieselblum to protect, safeguard democracy in the place where he was born.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u813	No, but you're asking for money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u814	The referendum, in order for the Greek people to decide to dominate their future, will normally be held next Sunday whether they want it or not. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The Greek people will decide to dominate and all of us will respect their verdict, whatever it may be, because we have a duty above all to defend the Greek Constitution, the popular sovereignty and the national independence of our country. We have a sacred obligation to the struggles and sacrifices of the Greek people. We will defend democracy. We will defend popular sovereignty, but we will also defend Europe's founding values. And Europe has a long tradition of democracy. Neither the Eurogroup nor the International Monetary Fund, which has come to Europe, has set it up, apparently, to divide Europe. This tradition was built by the great European leaders: Antenauer, Helmut Schmitt, Willie Brad, Miteran, Spinelli, Berlinguer. This tradition was built by the people with their struggles. This tradition is Europe's undeniable democratic acquis. The expression of the will of the peoples in referendums is nothing new in Europe. For the Maastricht Treaty, for Lisbon and for the European Constitution referendums have been held in several countries. Why, then, so much reaction? Anyone told French citizens when they decided on the most fundamental issue for the Union - what more fundamental than the European Constitution itself and rejected it - that this is not allowed? Did anyone tell them what question they're going to ask? Did anyone tell them that if they vote 'no' in the Euro-elections, they are actually voting for their departure from the European Union? So why are people so afraid of the verdict of the Greek people today and why are they blackmailing so much? Only let them consider that sometimes extortion has exactly the opposite effect. And I say that, because some people think the subject of Greece is a game. The dignity of a people, however, is not a game, ladies and gentlemen, of a people plundered for five years now by unfair and brutal austerity programmes. One and a half million unemployed, three million poor, thousands of padlocks, unemployment, young people who leave the country massively. This was not the case in the last five months of the real negotiation. This has become the five years of the memorial of cruel austerity, a tragedy that must finally end. This game ended with the verdict of the Greek people on the 25th of January and this game will be finalized with the new verdict of the Greek people next Sunday. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But let us be aware that the greater the branish, reactions and blackmail, the greater the problem that cannot be hidden from the other side. They may reason that with threats, blackmail, with panic efforts, they will bend the will of a people who seek to live with dignity. They're making a big mistake. Greece cannot go back, because its people want to live with dignity. How much, then, is the dignity of a people at the rating houses cost? How much do they value her? How much does a people's dignity cost on the stock exchanges? With how many loan instalments, to pay off unbearable and unsettled debts, can one exchange that value? Yesterday they blackmailed us with liquidity, today they blackmail us with banks, fear, panic, danger. At some point, however, extortion is depriving them. I would like to remind you today of a great phrase by a political man from the New Deal era in the United States that he had said 'our only fear is fear'. All that the Greek people have to fear today after so many years of plundering is fear itself. I say this because last night it started an incredible propaganda of fear, which will escalate until Sunday. But let them know - I repeat - that at one time terrorism is becoming so secret, it leads to the exact opposite of the results sought. People are persuading. Because the Greeks - the previous generations - have experienced great difficulties, far greater than today's, modern history and the Greeks know how to defy fear and withstand. We are a people who love peace. But when we are preached of war, we know how to fight and we know how to win. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, five months ago, since the first days of our election, we have fought a hard and sincere battle for our people and our homeland to end austerity and change policy within the Eurozone. We negotiated with the back of the wall and under conditions of unprecedented and blackmailing financial suffocation, to implement exactly this command we took. Despite these conditions, every citizen of this place knows that Greece has really been making a sincere effort to negotiate with determination, with dignity. From the first day until today, we have remained unbelievable to this principle of double respect, as - if I remember correctly - the French Minister for Finance, Michel Sappen, first set it out in February. Respect for the verdict of the Greek people, on the one hand, for change, respect and common rules that unite us in the Eurozone, on the other hand. That was our main orientation. We have been negotiated with open papers and with sincere cooperation, with a view to an honest compromise, namely to reaching a mutually beneficial agreement with our partners. I would like to assure you that in these months I have personally done what was possible in this direction. At the end of the day, however, my sense is that, unfortunately, the extremist voices between the partners and the institutions prevailed. As much as there have been sincere intentions - I must confess in particular on the part of Juncker - there has also been an insistence on an agreement, it must be approved by the International Monetary Fund, even though everyone knows that the Fund will not continue, as it has a year in which it has stopped, disbursements. Since the previous summer of 2014, he has not disbursed money for the Greek program because he knows that there is no prospect of stability and sustainability in the debt. So the insistence of the Fund saves itself well in the decision, when almost everyone is clear that it will not continue to disbursements, is an insistence that has suffocated every possibility of an honest compromise. You will also know that we have actually exhausted every concession limit in order to reach agreement in this effort. Perhaps some people have seen this as a weakness, as an opportunity not to compromise, but as an opportunity to exhaust, shrink our political credibility, as an opportunity to avenge and punish a different voice within Europe, with the aim of exampleing other peoples, not lifting their heads, creating a fait accompli, that there is no room for hope and hope for change within Europe, in the eurozone of the hard conservatives that prevail. You may remember that even at the last minute - at the last minute! - in an attempt to have an agreement we have tabled equivalent measures to the excessively high requirements of lenders - high excessive requirements in relation to our own assessment of the current budgetary gap for 2015 and 2016 - but with the difference that we have chosen the burdens to be allocated on the basis of justice to those who are able to raise them and not to those who have lifted all the burdens five years and who can no longer stand. However, at the critical time, with great insistence on the Fund, they have asked us to remove or mitigate our proposals on wealth taxation. The imposition of an exceptional contribution has been demanded to eliminate it in the profits of companies over 500,000 euros. They also called for an increase in the rate of taxation of legal persons by 3%, as well as for the proposal to reintroduce employers' contributions to their previous level to 2.9% a year and a half ago. They asked us and told us in the name of non-essential measures - listen, listen to who? - those who have officially admitted a few years ago that they were wrong to the remission multipliers who have condemned an economy in a recession of five years now, in the name of non-existent measures. If we drop the burdens - it says - to the richest, we'll have real measures. If we drop it on pensions and wages, we won't have any real measures. If we increase VAT, we won't have any real measures. In the name of this idea, then, we were asked to recharge the burdens on pensioners, cut pensions, and even the allowance and the lower pensions. At the same time, they made it clear that they are not interested in additional revenues from the control of illegal wealth and that they are not going to calculate them in their macroeconomic scenarios. We have also been asked to exclude ourselves from the European acquis of collective bargaining established by Article 28 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and to maintain the minimum wage in the private sector at the current level of poverty. We were asked to legislate on group redundancies and employers' lock out when the troika itself agreed to exclude them from the insurance reform in 2013. And while we agreed to start the insurance system reform in October, they demanded that the main and supplementary pensions be reduced to prejudge the content of the reform. They also demanded the exploration of VAT on tourism, namely hotels and catering, from 6.5% to 23%. With this perseverance they themselves cause reasonable questions: Are they working for whom? What interests do they serve? What purposes are those who want to lead to sudden death the country's most powerful, competitive advantage internationally, tourism? I have heard a reasonable comment: 'Instead of increasing VAT on tourism, let them take a travel directive not to come to our country'. Finally, they gave nothing more specific to the issue of debt than the same vague promise they made to the previous governments that we will at some point see that. In addition, they gave an extremely suffocating funding schedule, while according to the decision of 20 February, completing the current assessment on June 30 automatically entails disbursement of the last instalment with a maturity of 7.2 billion. By extending the current Agreement until December 2015, four monthly evaluations were added. In short, we were told liquidity with the drop-off and tough surveillance, while at the same time the International Monetary Fund would reserve the right to decide unilaterally in October whether or not to disburse the instalments due from 2014 of 3.5 billion. In other words, they did not ask us to agree. They asked us to hand over our political dignity. We have been asked to attack once again, and we, like the previous ones, are the workers and the retired. We have also been asked to sign in another tough memorandum of recession and slow death for the Greek economy. We didn't accept it. We refused. We refused not the compromise, but the tradition of our country as a new economic colony in different interests and our economy in a new hyphenical darkness. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that now is not the time of the sterile micro-participatory dispute, although I understand that the attitude we are holding may be surprising. You anticipated that we would surrender. You also had a contradiction in the criticism you made. You said that we were driving the country on the rocks, but the other day, you altered your argument with the fact that we signed Memorandums. You told us again and again. You were sure we'd do it. There may also be a small envy deep in some, for we do what you have not dared, although you might want to resist! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But now is not the time for the dispute. Now is the time to create conditions of unity. It is the time of the most extensive social and political consensus to defend democracy and the right of a people to get rid of austerity after five years in austerity. It is time that the political leadership of the place must first of all ensure that our people are the master of their decisions, that they seal the country's own course. Many ask the following question quite rightly: “The lenders give us a bad deal. We have to refuse her. The next day what will it be?’. Some people have anticipated that it is a one-way way to accept what they ask us. There have also been political leaders who have said that - no matter what you bring - we will vote for it, no matter what you bring, we will sign it - and others who do not have to say it, because they have done so for five years now. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, the next day of democratic selection and a proud 'no' to sublime, unworthy, will be a day that will find our country with much stronger negotiating potential, but it will also be the time of truth for the creditor. It will be time to understand that Greece will not surrender, that Greece is not a game that is over. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And our intention of a genuinely honest compromise and a truly sustainable agreement will continue there at the table, but at the table and a sincere negotiation, not at the blackmail table. And the wider the social and political consensus of our people, which will express the opinion of the sovereign, as provided for by the rules of democracy, the stronger the will of our people, the stronger the position of the country in the international arena. Only then can we achieve an agreement with a strong pretext for development, the restoration of social justice and cohesion, but also with a view to the country's productive reconstruction. Our decision to express the Greek people dominately I want to clarify and make it clear that it is not a decision to break with Europe. It is a breakthrough decision with the practices that afflict Europe, with the practices of extortion and coercion. It is, if you like, a decision to return to Europe of its founding values, respect for the European acquis, a decision to return to Europe of values and democracy. And it is a decision of dignity against the practices of raw economic extortion. I hear a lot of people retracting, bringing to this Chamber also the argument of Berlin's extremes that Europe is matched by the tough memorials that Europe is equivalent to lasting coercion in austerity, in an austerity without future. And I wonder, can we accept that as a fact? Can we not question it? We have a huge responsibility to our people, but also to all the peoples of Europe, to those who saw political change as a great hope in Greece, as a hope because the necessary change and transformation in Europe. If we don't question this doctrine now, then we put tombstones in hope. We put tombstones in the hope of the necessary transformation of Europe. It ends the vision of the peoples, but also our vision of a Europe of solidarity and social cohesion and we accept, we admit that we have and will have a Europe of punishment, a Europe of extortion, a Europe of ceremonies, a united Europe that its peoples will not love, but will remain by coercion and not by choice. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that the Greek people will stand up to their history and say the great 'no' to the ultimatum. And other times, when a ultimatum has been given to the Greek people, he responded as he should. But it will also send out a message of democracy and dignity throughout Europe. Because this 'no' will also be a great 'yes', a great 'yes' to the Greek Government's decision to reject a ultimatum that offends not only the Greek people. It offends Europe's democratic tradition, the principles and values of the Enlightenment and the French Revolution, the post-war democratic tradition, which, with the cooperation of social democrats and Christian Democrats - not the Left, did not rule - contributed to the construction of the European social state, which even until yesterday, this European social state was a global model but also an element of European political diversity. These principles and values we stand for: democracy, equality, solidarity, mutual respect, human dignity and social rights. We are defending - and we will continue to do so at any cost - the right of every citizen of Europe to choose his governments, to choose the crucial strategic choices for his future, to choose his governments whether they are excellent or not in the bureaucratic elites, which, unfortunately, are governing Europe and have led it to these deadlocks. For this reason, I ask the National Representation today to be approved in the Ministerial Council's decision yesterday to hold a referendum on Sunday 5 July, reassuring the Greek people that this government will not deny its expectations, will not kill its hope. And I'm sure everyone will respect, inside and outside the country, a people's democratic right to crucial choices to be responsible and to decide. I say this because I feel that many would like to do everything possible to prevent this choice. I have even heard a coup d'état call democracy. The choice of democracy is a coup! And I have heard a lot of people calling on the President of the Republic itself to violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. What exactly are you asking those of you who are referring to the President of the Republic, an appeal that is also a state-sponsored dangerous option? Are you asking for the President of the Republic to violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House? In these critical times, we all assume our responsibilities. And when responsibilities are heavy, they need strong shoulders to lift them, it needs courage, it needs boldness, it needs virtue, it needs patriotism. And I can assure you that the current President of the Republic has all this. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Regardless of the political convictions of each and every one of us, we will all be called first of all to fight democracy, dignity and hope. We pledge that since Monday, July 6, with the power of the popular verdict, we will continue our efforts. And of course - perhaps I do not need to repeat this - it is an absolute commitment to democracy for all of us that the result of the democratic choice of our people, whatever this may be, will be respected. However, I would like to repeat one thing: every attempt to turn this referendum from a referendum to a referendum on the currency of the country undermines the democratic process itself and reveals the secret and mystical pursuits of the supporters of the memorandum. [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] This is the choice of the most extreme, conservative and monumental powers, mainly outside the country, but also of those struggling their opinions within the country. I would like to repeat that it is neither the intention nor the government nor the Greek people to identify the memorandum well with our country's residence in the European Union. Greece is neither a guest nor a guest in the European structure. We're equal between equals. No one has the right, not even institutions based on the European conditions that we have all signed, to show us the door out of our home. We do not intend to grant this to anyone for any reason. Ladies and gentlemen, the political change and the ENP 25 mandate have indeed given Europe a chance to change. Let's not deny her. It has also given the troika a chance to transform itself into a troika and to become institutions that respect the democratic acquis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] They didn't want it. They have chosen to remain a troika that kills democracy in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u815	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u816	So the critical choice of the Greek people today concerns the future of Europe and the future of our people. I am sure that the Greek people will choose with courage, boldness and virtue exactly how they define the conditions of their freedom. It will seize the moment of history and send a strong message across Europe, a strong message of dignity all over the world. These hours, Europe is leaning on Greece. It looks forward to the 'no' of the dignity of the Greek people and we have a strong responsibility not to deny these hopes. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that the dominant option, on the one hand, that the National Representation today is to choose the democratic process, on the other hand, and on the other, each of the citizens of this country, is a choice to move forward. We don't have the right to go back. We do not have the right to deny the hope and expectations of the Greek people that our country should stop being a debt colony for the next few decades. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We do not have the right with our choice and our signature to put the tomb of democracy itself in this place where democracy has been living for two and a half thousand years. We do not have the right to allow technocratic organisations, organisations that have no accountability, which have not been elected by European citizens to forbid a sovereign people from being dominant of their place and their future. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The choice is burdened with each and every one, but, above all, it is a choice of hope, dignity and democracy. We owe it to our children, we owe it to the next generations, we owe it to the struggles and sacrifices of the Greek people... [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] ... to be sovereign, this people free, to be a country with democracy, popular sovereignty and pride. In these proud struggles we will give an account, an account in history, an account in the future, an account in the future of this people worth living with a prospect, with a hope. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u817	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u818	You've forgotten something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u819	I haven't forgotten anything. Mr. Paphie, I'd like to address your secretary. You have made a request for a roll-call vote in accordance with Rule 115(4) of the Rules of Procedure. I've been looking for you earlier. Read it. 'Today's vote concerns the initial application, as tabled or as formulated during the debate. The vote will therefore be taken only on the initial and any remodeled vote - not on your own - 'in accordance with the interpretation made'. I thought you'd seen this, and that's why I also addressed the honourable gentleman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u820	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u821	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u822	Mr President, we are asking for a roll-call vote on the proposal tabled by the Communist Party of Greece. Apart from the political, which is the sovereign, the government did not respond here. And typically when this article says 'as formulated', what exactly does it mean? There is a proposal from the Ministerial Council which says that a referendum should be held with the question 'yes' or 'no' in their proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u823	The troika.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u824	The troika. They upgraded her!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u825	You...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u826	Well, don't be so happy. Together you're in this. So I say that the government's proposal is to vote on this question, 'yes' or 'no', on the proposal from the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The Communist Party of Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u827	He made his own proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u828	It puts forward a proposal, which says that two questions must be asked: first question, that the people decide whether they agree with this proposal and with the government's proposal, as had been tabled by the Prime Minister. Secondly, to decide whether the Greek people are in favour of the release from the European Union and in favour of the abolition of the memoranda and all applicable laws. It's very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u829	Mr Secretary and Mr Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u830	Wait, wait, Mr. President. Don't be in a hurry. So what does the Rules of Procedure say? That the proposal put forward in roll-call votes, etc. It is the Council of Ministers and, as it is being formed, it is. So to speak in such a language that I do not like at all, we are creating two more questions. And we challenge the government: why does it not accept them? Why does it not give the Greek people the right, the democratic one, to take a decision on the other questions that we ask, since others do not put them? And of course that's it. And really, since we're talking about dignity - not talking about political terms - really, what else are you waiting for? They're throwing you out in kicks and instead of going out and saying 'yes, we'll have it decided by the Greek people', what are you doing? You are sweating the shoe that kicks you and you are giving us reasons for the value of the European Union. Well, we again challenge, dare - there are ways, they have been in many countries - and put these questions, as you think. This is not a technical matter. It's political. We cannot talk today about dignity and resistance when all this happens and do not dare to put the issue of liberation to the Greek people, the abolition of memoranda and all the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u831	Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u832	Therefore, we dilemmas, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have and have never had in our political history to say 'no' to the proposal of lenders. It would be a mock. You have other dilemmas. And anyway, keep your dilemmas. We know them. However, as you speak of democracy, you also give the people the opportunity to express themselves with these questions. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u833	Thank you very much, Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u834	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u835	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u836	Mr. Paphie, I completely understand your embarrassment. For five consecutive months you have made good use of something that has been convenient for you, that this government will accept memorials and bring to this House memorials to vote. We don't do you a favor, neither to you nor to the others on the other hand. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I would ask you to consider the history of your party and at this critical moment not to play micro-political games. At this juncture I would very clearly expect you to place yourself in the dominant dilemma: with the interests of the Greek people, the working people, the working class, or with the interests of those who want to break up society? And don't identify yourself with the other side. He doesn't care for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u837	You have the floor, Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u838	Mr Tsipras, you are doing micro-political games and you are Prime Minister of the country and you are in front of Parliament today. Our proposal is clear. Your proposal to the Troika, the three institutions, is also to put to the vote for a referendum on the Greek people, because this proposal is a memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u839	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u840	This proposal is a Memorandum and it is a carabinat. And you know very well that it's a memorial very bad, Armageddon of Troika. And it's also a very bad memorial of yours, carnival. What should the Greek people choose? So please address both, as the JRC proposes, frankly, democratically, to our people to decide. And say 'no' to both, as suggested by the Communist Party of Greece. He also says whether he wants to break real, as many of your Members say on the various channels and are ashamed, hesitate to say it here, before you in Parliament, and they will now vote for a break! I'll remind you what we were talking about from January. From January, the Communist Party of Greece clearly said that the choice of new memoranda, new agreement with either the logic of the troika or the logic of the Greek Government, or the choice of a rupture only from the euro and passing through a currency such as drachma or in a double currency, is the opposite side of the same anti-popular currency, does not solve the problem. Clearly, the JRC has been placed publicly, on several occasions, on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u841	Complete, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u842	Combining the break with the European Union should contain another programme, another plan, should put the problem in its essence, which is socialisation, it is decommitment, it is deletion of the debt, its non-recognition, etc. So don't talk about rope in the hanger's house! It is your problem and it is your micro-party controversy tonight and two o'clock after midnight, that is, Sunday morning. [[Noise in the Chamber]] In the hallway, your MPs told us that we could also make the referendum tomorrow, get out of here and vote with the Greek people in the polling stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u843	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u844	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u845	The problem is not ours or yours, it is the Greek people who will be invited to decide to dominate their future. I respect your mood to be differentiated. At the same time, however, I welcome the fact that, whether voluntarily or unintentionally, we will vote the same vote on Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u846	You're making a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u847	Aren't you going to vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u848	You're making a big mistake. We will vote on what we are proposing to you tonight to be a matter in this House, and we will also be outside the electorate and within the electorate. You guys don't know where you're gonna be next Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u849	We're done. Gentlemen of the Communist Party,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u850	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u851	What do you want, Mrs. Papariga?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u852	He says it's the same. It's a forgery what the Prime Minister does when he says we're going to vote the same. We're not suggesting the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u853	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u854	Mr President, why are you rejecting - and neither is the Prime Minister saying so - whether both questions should be added or otherwise? Can you tell us? On what basis do you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u855	Can you please hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u856	Yes, sir, let's hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u857	I'm saying that for the second time. I would like, because you have introduced an autonomous proposal, to read Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that 'the vote on accepting or not accepting the proposal is nominal and that it relates to the text of the proposal as tabled or formulated during the debate in Bulgaria'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u858	So, Mr President, as you say, you are a top legal officer, we propose that the House should vote for a roll-call vote and decide whether or not it will be made in accordance with the JRC's questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u859	No, because the proposal at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u860	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u861	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u862	Can I tell you something, so people can understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u863	You don't want to understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u864	Do I have the floor for people to understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u865	You don't want to understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u866	I ask you the following question and answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u867	Mr President, please speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u868	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u869	I say, Mr President, in theory, that there is a roll-call vote and the majority of the House decides that both questions should be raised. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u870	There has been no debate on your proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u871	What are you talking about? Are you kidding us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u872	It hasn't been introduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u873	What are you talking about? We therefore propose that the question be supplemented with our own questions and that the House decide whether or not to shape it. What are you afraid of? Fifteen votes will take.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u874	Mr. Colleague, would you give me away that I'm afraid to introduce?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u875	What are you afraid of? Don't take twenty-five?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u876	Are you asking me that I'm afraid to introduce?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u877	Put it on. You're talking about democracy too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u878	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u879	It's rejected, isn't it? Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u880	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 26-6-2015 decision and proposal of the Ministerial Council for a referendum on a critical national issue is adjourned in accordance with Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution. The decision of the Ministerial Council of 26-6-2015 - I will read the first paragraph and submit it in formal form - is as follows: "The Ministerial Council at its meeting on 26-06-2015, following a recommendation by the Prime Minister on the development of the negotiation on the agreement, as recorded during successive meetings with the leaders of Europe and the leaders of the institutions and specialised in the Eurogroup of 25-06-2015, decided to proceed to a referendum on a critical national matter referred to in Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution and to the immediate submission of the proposal to Parliament in order to hold an urgent debate on priority as set out in Rule 115 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We are tabling the decision, as signed by the Prime Minister and the members of the Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u881	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we are adjourning the sitting for five minutes, so that the vote can then begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u882	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned meeting is resumed, after the debate on the decision of 26 June 2015 and a proposal of the Ministerial Council to hold a referendum on a critical national matter under Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution had been concluded. For the Minutes of the sitting and for historical reasons I present pages 1662, 1663 and 1664 from the official minutes of the House of Parliament of 16 November 2011. It is the Papademos government's programme statements that will be interesting to all those who were shouting. Please pick them up for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Parliament Mr Zoi Konstantopoulou presents for the minutes the above-mentioned pages from the Minutes of the sitting of 16 November 2011, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We are now entering the roll-call vote. The roll-call vote shall be taken on a specific proposal tabled by the Ministerial Council. This proposal includes the call for a referendum on a critical national issue in accordance with Article 44(2)(a) of the Constitution, and the Greek people are invited to decide by vote whether the draft agreement submitted by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund in Eurogroup of 25 June 2015 should be accepted and consists of two parts which constitute their single proposal. The first document is called ‘Reforms for the collection of the Current Programme and Beyond’ and the second document is entitled ‘Preliminary Debt sustainability analysis’. Those of the citizens of the country reject the proposal of the three institutions vote 'Not adopted'. Those of the citizens of the country agree with the proposal of the three institutions vote "Adopted/NEI". The proposal of the Ministerial Council is being tabled, for the Greek people, after being thoroughly informed of the development of the negotiations - as was the case in the debate - which runs from 20 February 2015 to today, intensively in all the institutional frameworks of the European Union and the Eurozone, to take a position on the content of the proposal of the above three institutions and to authorize its Government to further deal with the critical national affairs. The referendum is therefore part of the negotiation process for the conclusion of the agreement and the people are asked by the government to have the first reason for this agreement. The referendum will take place throughout the country on Sunday 5 July 2015, according to electoral law, if the proposal is accepted. Parliament is also invited to set a deadline for the adoption of a Presidential Decree if the proposal is accepted. In order for all Members of the House to know this before the start of the roll-call vote, I tell you, for you to know, that I have contacted the President of the Republic and if the proposal is accepted, the deadline which I propose that Parliament should ask for the relevant Presidential Decree to be adopted today, i.e. 28 June 2015. It is a matter of particular importance, if the proposal is accepted, that I deliver the relevant report to the President of the Republic. In accordance with Article 2(3) of the Law. The Plenary Session contains the time limit within which the Presidential Decree of the referendum is adopted. So I offered you that date, that is today, 28 June 2015. Therefore, the roll-call vote on the proposal of the Ministerial Council of Ministers of 26 June 2015 will take place on this point. In accordance with Rule 72(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be held either by electronic system or by roll-call. The Secretaries of the Parliament Mr Panagiota Dricelis from SYRIZA and Mr Yiannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy pursuant to Rule 72(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure are on the list. Receiving the proposal of the Ministerial Council to Parliament to hold a referendum, they say "HAI". Those who do not accept the proposal of the Ministerial Council to the House to hold a referendum are saying 'OH'. Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues who exercise the right to vote in writing on the proposal from the Council of Ministers under Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure. These votes and these letters will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. I would ask Mrs Drichelli to start reading the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u883	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, sent to the Bureau by Mr.Ioannis Drasakis, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos, Mr. Athanasios Bourres, Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis, Mr. Stavros Arachovitis and Mr. Andreas Michaelides, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u884	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by Mrs Maria Antonio, who knows that she is absent from the vote and that if she were present, she would vote 'no'. This letter expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u885	Ladies and gentlemen, the voting procedure is being concluded, and I would ask the Members of Parliament and Mr Barkas, who have come to assist us, to count the votes and to export the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u886	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[To enter Protocol page 583a]] A total of 298 Members voted. In favour of the proposal of the Ministerial Council to Parliament, namely 'NAI', they voted 178 Members. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Against the proposal of the Ministerial Council to Parliament, in other words, 'NO', they voted 120 Members. ‘PARON’ did not state any Member, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u887	Therefore, the proposal from the Ministerial Council to the House to hold a referendum on a critical national issue was accepted by a much larger majority than the required absolute majority. They will follow what is set out in the Constitution for the holding of the referendum, and I think that is a victory for democracy in the face of the dark plans of those who would never want the people to have a voice for their choice. With the consent of the House, I will hand over to the President of the Republic the decision taken by the House on the day after the Presidential Decree was adopted. Already the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Katrugalos, is responsible for the procedures to be followed. Before I declare the meeting closed, because it is precisely because the moment includes the historicity of this decision to emanate our people, I would like to wish the citizens to vote by looking high, straightforward and lonelinessful, optimistic, with determination, without fear, with passion. Finally, I would like to inform the House that the normal agenda will be implemented as it has been posted. The House will remain open. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-27-S1-commons.u888	With the agreement of the House at 3.13 p.m., the sitting on Monday, 29 June 2015, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work is closed: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate, and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
