ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the quorum is to be established. We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion on the articles, the amendment and the entire draft law of the Minister of State: ‘Authorisation of providers of free-of-charge digital television broadcasts - Establishment linked to ERT SA. Anonymous Company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Setting up of the themes of the National Telecommunications and Postal Commission (ETC) - National Communication Policy, Organization of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and a Register for Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions.’; Before entering the debate, I would like to make a statement. From New Democracy, from Mr. Placiotakis, Mr Mitsotakis, President-in-Office of the Council. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Mitsotakis on his excellent report. At its meeting on 22 November 2015, the bill was discussed and passed at the outset. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as a unity. The procedure that I propose - and it has already been decided - is as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will speak on the articles. I would like to have your consent so that after the first two rapporteurs - for you all understand - we can give Mr Mitsotakis the floor for eight minutes, because he will have to leave for a journey. I've talked to almost all the parties, and I imagine you're going to do that to him. Then the other special speakers will continue. The remaining speakers will follow from the meeting on the principle, who will speak in principle and on the articles. Then, colleagues who will be enrolled during the speech of the first two rapporteurs will speak about the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u2	Apart from Mr. Mitsotakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u3	Normally, they are during a speech on the articles of the first four rapporteurs, but seeing the image, I don't think it's necessary. We had taken a unanimous decision at the Conference of Presidents - and I remind you of it - that today's sitting should be closed at 6 p.m., taking into account that it is Saturday, with all the political parties involved in all the political parties, particularly those in the region. If the time is respected, I believe that, if not everyone, at least the overwhelming majority and those who have left beforehand and those who may be enrolled in the articles will speak. I think we can start, so we don't waste time. Time is eight minutes. The rapporteurs and special speakers will show a small tolerance for not using dentistry. Everyone speaks eight minutes, by the Prime Minister, the Minister, the party leaders and all colleagues. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Spyridon Lappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a fruitful dialogue with many arguments, many times and confrontation. Perhaps the debate on the committees, on the principle and on the articles, has also been intensified. It was also a fruitful debate in the debate yesterday in plenary. I'm starting with a statement and a question. We now know that the only network provider is DIGEA. We now know how, with what methods and with what purpose the only candidate network provider was. The question is this: is it possible that this only network provider, namely frequencies to programme providers, was also formulated by the President of Parliament himself, Mr Voutsi, to be a cartel of all the programme providers themselves, namely the channels, which are the only members of DIGEA? Yes, it is. These channels, in the form of a company and essentially as a cartel, are the well known to all of us programme providers. They are both members of the cartel, which is the network and frequency provider. In other words, we have a case where the network provider is signaling its own members, so to himself. When, how and why they are known to all of us. This phenomenon, in addition to being a horror of illegality, is also a misery, as the ministers and the President of Parliament described it. So let us keep the knowledge of this phenomenon and go to the regulation of the bill. This is a legislative initiative for us, the SYRIZA Government, the relevant ministers and its Members, which is an institutional aspect in the field of information. And for the only thing anyone can blame us for is that he's coming late. For no other reason! Because, furthermore, this bill is an urgent political need, a social requirement and an initiative of a democratic nature, since it covers the institutional gap, which the political system for twenty-five years has refused to cover, despite the fact that a number of senior courts, particularly the TEC, have been talking about anomaly and lack of legitimacy in the field of the television scene. Today we, the legislature of our country, are discussing for the first time a bill, which attempts to put a class in the landscape of private television, a class which has not been in place for twenty-five years. And when we talk about order, we mean nothing more than the ones that the CTB diagnosed many times about the continuing illegality that prevailed and prevailed in the television scenery. Since the time has come for our speech, and I do not want to read basic parts of the decisions of the CSR, I am tabling a characteristic decision - from the other hand - on finding this illegality, anomaly and misery. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, of the anti-population parties, can one be deafened to the dreadful current television reality, which cries for intervention and changes, when the Council of State itself itself - some even declare institutionalists - stigmatizes a long-standing illegality and this stigmatisation is almost the rule of law and stains the body of Greek society? As we mentioned earlier in the debate at the outset, the draft law includes funds for the authorisation process of content providers, the strengthening of competition in the area of digital signal provision by the creation of the ERT network, the intervention for the operation of the telecommunications market and the competent regulatory authorities, the establishment of the National Communication Policy Council, the establishment of the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications, and the creation of the Internet Media Register, which we consider to be something very important, despite the fact that we have had acute reactions and conflicts in this chapter. Is there really a Greek citizen who believes that the situation, as it is today, can continue to exist? Can anyone claim in here that he's happy with the current situation? There can be no followers, because there can be no followers of illegality, misery, deception, decline. And today's situation has precisely these sad traits. We are aware today that there has been a stockholder of a channel, in which there was an offshore company, namely - which demonstrates the nature and size of the big mistake, with which the Greek state and the previous governments have gone to date. And today is a great, historic opportunity for the political system to gain credibility, authority, to be effective and in association with society, which is thirsty for justice and legitimacy. And when we are all aware of this sad situation, we should find common paces, at least those which must be changed immediately and urgently. That will mean institutional consensus. Society demands it. And we can argue in here for a lot. But for what is confessed to the entire Greek society, we could, through controversy and controversy, reach convergences. The most acute controversy is allowed. But we must not agree on what society demands. I will remind you of the well-known of Heraklitos, "and that is harmony as a result of the dialogue. As the Minister of State yesterday stated, our intention is to contribute to the development of the audiovisual industry and communication, taking into account all horizontal links between the communication sector and public diplomacy and the development of technology infrastructure. That is why we are selecting interministerial character in actions and ensuring action among the public bodies involved. The first part, and in particular the first and second Article, defines the concept of 'consumer content' and regulates the licensing procedure. The Rules of Procedure are the selection of the tender procedure, which is in line with the principles of the rule of law and democratic status, since there is no other option, which gathers elements of greater validity and of competitive credibility. It guarantees, more than anything else, the inequality of the competitive process. And does each of us ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen: do we accept the auction as the most valid and most reliable method of licensing or not? In its position, what is proposed, who proposes it and why in particular? In this respect, all aspects of Parliament must take a clear position. We reiterate that this process provides all the guarantees to return to legitimacy, in accordance with the explicit constitutional requirement of Article 15(2) of the Constitution and the decisions of the CoR, such as the one I gave just now in the Minutes. It was criticised and it was claimed that the television spectrum is unlimited and that there is no need for licensing in today's so-called digital age. It is, however, a criticism, which, as Mr Spirtz explained yesterday, is not correct, and proved scientifically that the television spectrum is not unlimited, not only in our country, but throughout the world. This arbitrary and unfounded criticism must not be reproduced to decouple one of the main objectives of the bill, which is the auctioning of licences. We all need to know that the core of this bill is the concept of tender. They must all be placed on this. So the spectrum is not unlimited, ladies and gentlemen. This finding is not a political claim, where one might argue that it contains elements of feasibility or arbitraryness. It's a scientific admission that Mr. Spirzis analysed. You remember, however, that it was mentioned in detail in the debate on the principle in committee and the technical director of the ERT, Mr Michalitsis. Look for all the minutes of the committee and you will see what I am telling you. And it will be fully confirmed. The following should also be added: in no country in the world there is any technical, economic and business possibility for the network provider to provide quality and reliable services to an infinite number of television channels. The first time, in the debate on the principle, it was argued that the market was the only one responsible and capable of regulating the number of channels that can and should be broadcast. But this argument is a neoliberal concept, which is disgusted by a ruthless reality, which gives ruthless answers. Really, the market over the past twenty-five years has been how it self-regulationd the subject of television frequencies? Do you see anything that this market could have done - even the correction of the television document - as a benefit to Greek society, pluralism, the rule of law, information and democratic status? To answer these questions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would just like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u5	Go on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u6	It has also been heard several times both in committee and in plenary yesterday that a minister - and hence the government - cannot determine the number of television licences and that this is unconstitutional. Mr. Poppas made you a very serious reminder yesterday. It produced the minutes from the database of the European Audiovisual Observatory, according to which in seven European Union countries authorisations belong exclusively to the relevant Ministry without any intervention, without any mediation of any regulatory authority. This record shall be submitted to the minutes. It concerns the countries of Spain, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland and I do not know how many others. No one is intervening and no regulatory authority. The authorisations shall be granted only to the relevant Ministry. Is this in breach of Union law and the European acquis, as some people claim, particularly on the side of the New Democracy colleagues? I'm up against a few things. We were accused of blocking the ERC. The ERR is responsible for everything, except for two things. It is not responsible for the number of providers and the amount of the starting price. Everything, procedure, conditions, suspensions, all set by the ERR. I don't repeat it, the law says it. For the minimum number of workers, we have heard criticisms from various aspects. Others said it's too big a number, others less. We removed the number twenty (20) for regional channels, because that is what their Panhellenic Union demands, which we have heard. I also think there is an amendment today to municipal television stations. This issue is also resolved, in line with their proposal. As you know, too, licenses have a ten-year duration. All the conditions and conditions are laid down so that there is now a spectrum throughout the State. Yesterday, Mr Pappas said that during the previous government period 12 questions were put to Parliament for Mr Pappas and Mr Spiritzis, due to the fact that too many regions, mountainous, islands, etc., did not see the television signal. The National Communication Policy Council, which is also detailed in the text of the Act, is established. We also have the National Centre for Audiovisual Media, which other colleagues will develop. I conclude by saying that the content providers may and must be known under their surname and should not be hidden. That is why a nominalisation of the shares is also introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to tell you that we will fight what John Dewey said, namely politics is the shadow of big business and society. That's what we'll fight for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u7	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u8	His name is John Dewey, Mr. Tasula.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u9	You say whiskey?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u10	Where does he live?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u11	He lives in France. I repeat he said that politics is the shadow of large businesses and companies on society. And he said it about the European given over the last few years. We will vindicate our own Isocrat who said: "The city of all morality is like the rulers", that is, the morale of the state will be exactly like the spirit of the rulers. We are aware that we do not have the absolute truth. But we have the passion of research and doubt, because as the philosopher and historian Andre Zide said: "I believe those who are looking for the truth, I question those who said they found it." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u12	Before calling on Mr Aygeakis to step up and because I see Mr Phil here, I would say - if colleagues allow it - that he be given the floor for three minutes to develop his amendment, which is ministerial and, as I understand it, he will probably be broadly accepted. I suggest, indeed, that everyone you want should also be on the amendment so that we do not keep him here until late at noon after the morning. Mr. Philly, I'll give you three minutes. Do they reach you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u13	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u14	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. With the amendment we call for Parliament to be approved, in order to deal with money entered in the Ministry of Education's budget, in the Public Investment Programme, which is in place, educational staff. This year there is a peculiarity. The NRV, which covered much of the expenditure for the Deputy Professors and Teachers, cannot be used for large regions such as Attica, southern Aegean and Western Macedonia. We therefore have to find money from national resources to deal with this problem. We therefore call on you to allow us to make use of money so that, within a short period of time, we can proceed with the necessary recruitment of substitutes in particular in Attica. We have said this to be done as a priority in special education schools, in municipal schools where there are problems with teachers, but of course in the entire day's schools. I would like to tell you that in recent years twenty-five thousand teachers have retired and some thousand have been recruited. That is to say, this is a great outburst of educational resources and the economic, financial and past choices made have not enabled it to be replaced with permanent staff. Without permanent staff, the school operates with great pathogens, the most important of which is the lack of a stable relationship between the teacher and the student. This necessary stable relationship that creates and trusts around the educational work is replaced by an opportunistic one, today one, tomorrow, now one, then the other. This educational problem arising from the lack of the adequate number of permanent teachers is even more visible in the schools of special education, where the teacher is a second father for the child and the second mother teacher, where it is necessary to develop a strong relationship of confidence in order to address the problems arising from the personal situations of these children. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We therefore ask you to give us this possibility, which is partly covered by the 2015 budget and the draft budget for 2016. We give Parliament the promise that we will work to stop what we have been living in recent years. We will work to open schools with teachers in their positions. This has to do with the preparation of the administrative mechanism of the Ministry, but also with timely political choices, as well as with the need for the state - and here I speak as a government - depending on the progress of the budgets to tackle education as a priority for permanent recruitment. Of course, it has to do with our commitment to solve the problem of the secondments of teachers outside the hall, where, as you know, some four thousand teachers do not serve in their organic positions in the Chamber, but in other places, whether they have an indirect relationship with education or are purely administrative. Our intention is whether there are teachers who have been serving for many or several years outside the hall, to allow them to transfer from school to the administrative work of the public administration. [[At this point the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time repetitively rings.]] However - and I conclude with this - the promise we make before the Greek Parliament - that we will work and hope to succeed - is next year that schools will be able to operate without the problems of the last decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. To facilitate the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u18	Mr Aygeakis, I wanted to say that I asked Mr Philis to put himself at the beginning so that both speakers, speakers or Parliamentary representatives at the time of their speech can make any criticism of what Mr Philis said. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u19	First of all, we agree on the amendment. However, our parliamentary representative, Mr Mitsotakis, will analyse this more. So I will confine myself to the issues of the draft law. Mr President, in order to facilitate the process, I would like to use dentistry as well, so that I do not have time on a second level and deal with a whole...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u20	What you're going to do with the dentistry doesn't make up your mind. The Bureau decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u21	The Rules of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u22	It'll be the same for everyone. As I have shown tolerance to Mr. Lappa, I will show the same tolerance. Let go of the dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, please, let my time start from scratch. Nearly all the MPs of the Opposition and Co-Population have pointed out the very serious weaknesses of the bill and structurally for its purpose and the object it wants to regulate, but also its provisions. As a New Democracy, we are not opposed to the fact that we have to get into the television scenery. But we are opposed, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the bill creates a state-of-the-art, a super-Candar who is on the verge. It regulates, decides as he likes, as he likes from the channels, the number, the staff, the licenses, the contents. Even the foreign policy of our country will be regulated by Mr Pappas. However, since we are really and essentially seeking to reach agreement, at least in the major ones, unfortunately we did not see the legislative improvements made yesterday by the government. We hope to see it within the day. But I shall put forward the New Democracy's views on the articles and improvements brought by the government just yesterday. Since the constitutional legislature, ladies and gentlemen, has created institutional counterweights so that political power can be governed by legal regulations and not exercise uncontrolled and arbitrary control, this legislation will not stand either in the courts or in the Council of State, nor in the European institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the multi-advertised law on a hundred instalments, which was then forced, on the troika's command, to take him back? Do you remember the arrangement for insured EDFs, CSMEDE, Mr. Spirtzi, concerning doctors, lawyers, engineers and two months later - the other day - you took him back again? And then, you had to send open letters, tears, wanting to justify to colleagues engineers why you had to get him back. And you ready to fight with who? With yourself? Do you remember the much-advertised humanitarian crisis law that later, when you became memorialists, you had to retire several of its well-advertised provisions? I do not want to say either about the first residence or pensions or the ENPI. I confine myself to three or four examples, and I tell you that the same thing will happen with this law. You think you're mocking the Commission, you think you're making fun of the citizens. We have told you all about it, we say it today: you cannot define how many licences you will give. You cannot identify number of employees. You can't define the specialties each operation will get. You can't violate competition. You cannot interfere with the independent authorities and be punished. You cannot violate the Constitution, international conventions, Community law. And that, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you will find it in front of you. And we'll find it in front of us in the prerequisites of November. You will find it from the troika itself, unfortunately, gentlemen of the government. Let me just say to you that in France - we had the honour yesterday to be visited by the French President - today, thirty-six national channels operate in Germany, forty-four, in Spain, fifteen, in Cyprus, ten, apart from the regional ones. The New Democracy wants to help. We want to help and testify from our past experience, but also so that our country does not come to the unpleasant position to get another bill back. While this space needs to be arranged, with your diligence, with your lack of preparation, with your lack of aiming, your arrogance, the ideas and the remnants you carry, with your adoption, you lose and we lose the opportunity to put real order in this field. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the agony of many colleagues elected in remote areas. They referred to movements in the acquisition of regional television channels which have already begun to be carried out by entrepreneurs from neighbouring countries. So I would like to inform you about this and I ask you to assess it as a proposal - a solution to the problem, because that is a problem. At the time of analogue TV, the geographical coverage of the areas of Eastern Macedonia, Thrace, North and South Aegean was completely poor. The Government of New Democracy, especially for these sensitive regions, has made a brave political decision, proper political decision, to integrate these two regions into the operational digital convening programme and to fund the facilities of the local transponders. The SYRIZA government that won the elections in Genoa - and today it is cut off for the incomplete coverage of these sensitive areas - has awarded both important projects for the installation of transponders. So we ask that the government rethink this decision and see it clearly from a national perspective alone. The notion was. I now go further into the articles: it is characteristic of the contempt that you show the Scientific Service of the Parliament, whose role, ladies and gentlemen, is to help your work and the work of all of us here in the practice of good legislation. Main ministers, on Article 2(4) and (5), on the starting price per category of auctioned licence, given that the number of auctioned content licences and the starting price by category of auctioned licence are not specific detailed or technical issues with regard to the authorisation procedure, would be appropriate to lay down in the text of the proposed provision, even indicative criteria on the basis of which the said Ministerial Decisions will be adopted. In addition, at the end of paragraph 1 of Article 2, the word ‘reasoned’ shall be added before the word ‘Opinion’. We ask that it be 'consental opinion' not to be a simple opinion, an opinion of the councils, because at that time the Minister will be a sovereign of everything. And there will be a question whether the PSE or the EBRD are not legally and directly formed. It is therefore the government's duty at this point to investigate it and to lead the House to make a decision to set up these committees in a legitimate way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is good that you have changed the first subparagraph of Article 2 with legislative improvements. And you made a legislative improvement in Article 10(4) with regard to the statements to be audited by the PSE. It's in the right direction. However, we have also told you that there are signs in the PSE that you can use them to mobilise candidates on the basis of the criteria of old age, consistency, complaints and a number of other elements that would be useful in the tender. I move on to Article 9, because the draft law sets a minimum number of employees per provider category, and not only does it not objectively meet the needs of modern digital television, but on the contrary doubles the number laid down by equivalent laws on analogue television. Furthermore, with the provision that the Ministerial Decision determines the qualifications of employees and a minimum number of employees per qualification, the administrative right of a provider undertaking is effectively being dismantled. And not only that, you come and define, not only the number of workers, but also the specialities and, furthermore, the adoption of a joint ministerial decision. Only the names of those you want to hire have not yet given us, remains to include this by ministerial decision. With regard to the issue of auctions, the subject matter of the authorisation of content shall not be understood to be an invitation to tender, as, in addition to the fact that there is no question of granting frequencies, there is no difference in one licence to provide one type of content from another of the same category. This is, however, a distortion of competition. And we will repeat once again: Separate regional channels from national channels. Article 16. As regards ERT's connected network provider, the setting up of a 100 % State-owned company, which has paid no fees for the use of specific frequencies nor has it been subjected to a competitive procedure and will provide network services for third parties — other than ERT - of content providers, raises a question of conflict with European competition law and, where appropriate, State aid. This is a distortion of competition. And you must take this very seriously, because, as I have said before, the European Commission and the troika are now waiting for you and waiting for us as a country, at the corner. And you, deliberately and childishly, do not bring the letters you have exchanged with the Commission. In Article 17, the third subparagraph of Article 4(1) and Article 6 n. 4070/2012 provides that the exercise of its powers is supervised by the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks. As the above-mentioned article sets out the responsibilities of the Minister for Electronic Communications, and with regard to the EBA, cases are mentioned where the authority makes a recommendation or an opinion to the Minister working with the Ministry would be appropriate to clarify which responsibilities of the ECB are supervised by the Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to article 21. You are required to take it immediately, to withdraw it. I am not talking about the legislative improvement, which relates to the Code of Added Value Tax, but about the point that it is said to allow existing direct connections to closed motorways. In essence, it opens a window, ladies and gentlemen, to create direct connections to closed motorways, creating a very important road safety issue - from there I begin - while this regulation comes into direct conflict with judicial decisions, as well as with the European Union regulations on motorways belonging to the trans-European networks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, in Section 22 of Chapter V of the Bill, it's Press Offices...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Ignace, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u25	It's the last chapter. A supposedly new organization of Greece's international image is being created in the press offices. Ladies and gentlemen, they are trying not to build a positive mechanism for producing and implementing national communication policy in the sensitive area of foreign policy, but to satisfy personal visas and ambitions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] What you invoke doesn't make sense of becoming...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Ausgeus, please, finish up, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u27	... neither at the Foreig Office of Great Britain nor at the Quai d'Orsay of France nor at the State Department of America.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Ausgeus, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u29	In conclusion, I refer to the article on ERT journalists. You started right. You gave an opportunity to the employees of the Athenian News Agency, General Secretariat. We also expect ERT officials to have the same chance of employment as others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u30	Well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u31	For the amendment, as I told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Mitsotakis will speak, you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u33	Yeah. Thank you very much. We think there's time for the government to bring some improvements to these remarks that we made and we're here, even at this time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Ignace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u35	...to vote in favour of some of the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u36	Can you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u38	After thanking all my fellow Members again for the courtesy of Mr Mitsotakis to speak, for the reasons I have explained, he will take the floor as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I wish SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman. Watch out, just with the broken hand, don't Mr. Kammenos see you and ask you to play on his next TV spot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u40	We looked at the man!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u41	The right one is broken!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, for twenty-six years television stations have been operating without licensing status in our country. Therefore, in principle, no one can disagree with the Government's initiative to put order in a broadcasting landscape, which actually operated without clear rules. However, there are a number of reasonable questions about your legislative initiative, many of which Mr Ausgekis also mentioned. I am, however, beginning with this sense of urgency of this bill, which came to Parliament, without any real consultation. You had seven months at your disposal. You didn't bring it earlier. You seem to be very urgent for this bill to be passed, and I wonder exactly what you are looking for with this bill. Really exalt the broadcasting landscape or create a new landscape, which may be more prosperous to the government? Because here there are a number of questions that have not yet been answered by you. Why does the bill give such strong responsibilities to the Minister of State to determine the number of licences when under normal conditions the number of licences should be determined by the market itself? Why do you, Minister, put so much severe restrictions on the number of television broadcasters? Why don't you do it to other types of business? What kind of strange concept of state is this, where the Minister responsible and legislative authority will identify in a private company how many workers will have? Can you explain that to us? What exactly do you want to serve with this purpose? In any case, does it not concern you that, in the way in which you transfer ERC powers to your Ministry, is competition distorted? You are already aware of this, too, of a number of letters that raise such issues, which have not yet been answered. So, what are you pursuing? Should we be accountable to the European Court of Justice at some point for distortion of competition? Did you read today's letter from the Association of Commercial Television Networks published today in the press, which raises exactly all these issues? It clearly tells you that a structure is being created here, a market organisation which is not like any other European market. So it is reasonable to ask you the question. What are your real intentions? If all you care about is creating a new landscape, which will be more friendly to the government, to serve your own political interests. In any case, how do you understand - and this question is not for you, Mr Pappas, but for Mr Spirtzi - the functioning of the independent authorities? What is the role of ETT at last? Because we know very well that since your previous governance, you have already encouraged - in a way that interfered with the autonomous and independent functioning of ETUC - its members to resign and then Mr Katrugalos' efforts to put age limits on the independent authorities. Now, what you are doing is actually to destroy ETT's independence and get it under control of your own ministry. Is that how you understand the functioning of the independent authorities? Is this the organization of the state that you ambassador? What role should the independent authorities at last have in the way in which you understand the control they must exercise in the executive? So I fear, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that here we are witnessing a wider effort to alleviate the independent pillars of the state by an executive authority, which is disturbed by all the independent voices. I'm not just talking about the bill, Ministers. There are other cases which are extremely worrying and for which you, as a government, must apologize. What happened to Mrs Savvaidou's case, exactly? What do you blame Mrs. Savvaidou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u43	Speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u44	Do you not know that one of the main obligations we have as a country is to guarantee the independence of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue? Do you know it or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u45	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u46	If you have a problem with each Mrs Savvaidou, if each Mrs Savvaidou does not achieve the goals which the political leadership has set, then go out here and say so. And don't rush to say that we might have done the same, because I've done the self-criticism and our own party on the matter of Mr. Theocharis. So we have to agree at some point that once there are independent structures, the executive power, Mr Ministers, cannot intervene at all. Whenever something suits you, pass a setup and carat people or transfer responsibilities to executive power. That's not how coordinate states work. So there is here an overall attempt to erode the state and abolish the independence of authorities, which are constitutionally guaranteed. And, unfortunately, I fear that you are not just confined to the issues of independent authorities and relations with the executive. Yesterday, the New Democracy issued a communication with the relevant judiciary on the choices you made in justice. Mr. Athanasios was very detailed in his communication and will require some clear explanations, because you have dived so deeply in the yearbook, Ministers. Why have you been overrun by judges acquainted with authority with considerable scientific work? I cannot imagine that you did so because perhaps some in the past on important cases of public interest, made decisions which were incompatible with the political wishes of the government. I can't imagine that might have happened. But, in any case, some explanations about this extremely deep-sighted dip in the year of justice must be made by the relevant Minister, but also by the government as a whole. I am afraid, Mr President-in-Office, that we are here before a worrying phenomenon, a government which is beginning to act in a semi-autonomous manner. I'm reminded of your behavior of other times of affliction in the state. It goes my mind back to other times, where other governments, who came to power, considered themselves to be indebted to the state and to place their own friends on the subject. Don't make the same mistake, Ministers. You will find us against these practices, which undermine the democratic organisation of the state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, so that I do not misuse time and once again thank you for my exceptional intervention in the list of rapporteurs - with two comments on the amendment tabled by the Minister of Education for filling gaps in schools. Mr. Friend isn't here, but, really, did you remember that now? "First time left" are you or are you "second time left" government? Who is responsible for the fact that there were so many gaps in schools? Mr. Friends may not be, Mr. Baltas and Mr. Kourakis are personally responsible, because we had warned them since January of the proper planning of staff, as we had done and had far fewer gaps than they exist today. So there are clear planning responsibilities. The Minister is now coming and he is talking about the issue of secondments. How many distractions, really, did Mr. Kourakis do before the beginning of the school year? How many distractions did he make so he could do the favors to his trade unionists? And you come now and say that you will suspend the distractions you have made yourself? You are not the first time a government, Mr. Ministers. You are the second government and you will be judged for the seven months' insufficiency. In any case, if you want to speak frankly - and I am closing down with that, Mr President, only a phrase - the issues of manpower management in education, we are here to do so. We have the largest number of teachers in Europe, and we cannot do this, we are unable to serve schools properly. Well, there's a problem. Let's talk about this. We will therefore support the amendment, but the responsibility for the fact that there are still kindergartens, which are closed, has been fully respected by the SYRIZA Government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u47	Until Mr. Ioannis Ragos comes to Stepma, whom I invite, I would ask, in particular, the representatives of the opposition parties at a reasonable time, around 13.00 p.m. -14.00 p.m. at the latest, if they intend to vote for a roll-call vote, that the Bureau be informed, because there are colleagues who may have made tickets to leave for their regions and should change them and suspend their departure. I would like to ask you not to leave it for the last minute, since it's a pretext that we're done. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. The current circumstances and today's conversation are the right thing to answer some questions about the cloudy landscape that exists in the sale and exploitation of television frequencies. A few days ago, from this step of the House, we denounced the Communist Party of Greece as Golden Dawn for some opaque procedures it had done. We are here, then, again today to say that we also have elements in our hands, because in these ten days we have allowed ourselves to say where the broadcasting frequency of the Communist Party has been sold has not been answered. So today, as Golden Dawn, we are presenting the contract signed between the company that bought from offshore a Cypriot company the frequency of the Communist Party of Greece - the former '902 left to FM' and radio - and we want to ask why they are trading with them and are taking tens of millions of euros out of this process? We also want to ask this House's Step and get an answer: What right did they have - I repeat - the radio and television frequency and, above all, what right they sold it later, about a year and a half to two years ago? Minister, there is evidence here. Here's the market sale that's been done. The original sales between the Communist Party and offshore, based in Cyprus, is lost. The evidence is here and if there is a prosecutor against corruption, if there is independent justice there must now intervene and see the evidence. We are asking for nothing but self-evident, to see what right the Communist Party had received this frequency and what right it was sold at a price of EUR 10,000 000, which money has been lost somewhere in the course of Cyprus, which is the transaction and Greece, Amarousi, which is the seat of one company and we continue. In fact, in order to see what exists, in the transaction between the second and third buyers in the course, there is an agreement that says that the buyer is not allowed for the next three years to transfer or in any other way to grant all its rights in the future from the radio station company that acquires with the present in a political party other than the Communist Party of Greece or in a company in which he participates or controls in any way. This is the transaction that exists and there are probably some too much rushing to cover up all these scandals and to give forgiveness to what has happened. We are here as Golden Dawn, and we have endured the price of our names, just because we expose everyone and everything. Can I tell you something else? How is it possible for the existing political system to claim and render justice when - I repeat - the New Democracy Government had illegally taken the television and radio station, when in the New Democracy it sold it along the way and took these tens of millions of euros that put it in their pockets, in their party fund - I do not know what has happened - and when the rest of the government's makeups in here are most left-wing ones? So, because we are talking about this issue which is scandalous and which is now official, I repeat, there is the market paper that has been made, I call on the prosecutor to intervene and tell us whether the sale that has been made is legal. Tell us. As far as I know, however, unless I'm wrong, we will be told by the rulings, there is no legal procedure to sell a frequency that belongs to the Greek people. So when the left here, the KKE, talk to us about the fairness of the worker and the ordinary Greek citizen, it would be a good thing, the broadcasters who have taken illegally and who belong to the Greek citizen, not to sell them afterward, and not to take the money to put them in their pocket, because they are not with the Greek citizen of course, but they know where they stand and are with themselves, they are with their party army. We would like you to tell us, Minister, if you are going to find responsibilities on what has been done, political responsibilities at least in the whole process, because I repeat that those who are shouting for the great interests are those who do exactly the same thing, it is the long hand of the system, which forty-one years has been depriving the Greek people, taking their rights and doing their protectors. But that's what we live. The "go" in the JRC what is it? The "go" to the JRC from the system all these years is not to be persecuted for any illegal act, it is to have the right to enter the maritime repair zone of Perama, at any time and at any time, and to download workers by tie them down, it is to get radio frequencies and sell them by taking 10,000,000 euros and putting them in the pocket - these are official elements I repeat - to an offshore company in Cyprus. And what does the JRC do for all this? The JRC is the speed shell until now when any reaction was made by the Greek people, took it and evaporated it, so that this space of Parliament and of lawlessness, as has been done for forty years, a man of corrupts. That is why the JRC a few years ago, when it was done outside with the indignant Greek citizens, it had taken the role of the far hand of the system, I repeat, and it was on the steps and was burdening people who had come to protest and said their opposition to it. So we can't talk about this anymore. We demand that the government and the judiciary answer be given as Golden Dawn to what is the movement of money, which has gone EUR 10 million since the sale of '902', which have disappeared and which pockets have gone to. We will also ask once again, as we as Golden Dawn have been persecuted and thoroughly controlled on our finances by the ILO, to become also on all the other parties, starting with the JRC, which supposedly surrounds with love and dedication the worker and the ordinary Greek citizen. We won't stop. We'll bring everything in the attic slowly. That is obviously the price we pay, but we are not going to do back. There's, for anyone after that, the shopping paper. They have been covered on a legitimate but unreasonable law, Law No 479, to which they do not directly sell the broadcasting frequency, but are allegedly selling the equipment. And within this equipment they also sell the broadcasting frequency, which they illegally possessed. And these people come to ask us for the change for Bobola, for Vardinoyannis, for the great interests that exist, for Alfouzo, for all of them. They can't do that because they're just the same. They can't do this because they've taken a small piece of the pie they've given, but they're very capable of alleviating thousands of our Greek compatriots. They've taken it, they've accepted it, and they've been in that process. To check all these procedures, Mr Ministers, and not just change from here to beyond, but seek responsibilities in the past. Otherwise, you will also be responsible and will have covered this truly terrible lawlessness, which exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u50	As what? I don't mean what you represent. But for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u51	Didn't you hear? What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u52	Yes, I will give you the time, because you are obviously asking him as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u53	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u54	Five minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u55	I guess it's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u57	Of course, it is not so good to answer people who have given orders for murders and are accused and every day it turns out what they have done, such as the one who spoke beforehand. But because they show up and spent all their time blaming the JRC with slandering, because that is their role - the hood, you know, never leave - and because they chose from the dozens of sales that have taken place all these years to talk about the Communist Party of Greece, we want to say that all of this is slander. What they said here today in the Chamber is well known. The so-called contracts they submit here are all known. We've testified to the tax office and everywhere. It is also well known, of course, that the sale of the company and not the frequency that the JRC has made to a legal company, which everyone who was president knows, has something else that is inconceivable for those performing contracts, whether death or other things, namely that the money collected went to the workers and to the insurance funds and no euro has gone to the Communist Party of Greece. So what is confirmed today is that the rival of the Golden Dawn fascists who, among other things, are fascists, but they never say it - have the courage to say it now, start and renounce it - is to strike the Communist Party of Greece and not the great interests with which they are connected in a variety of ways. And we all know each other in this place. We have nothing to answer but that these are slanders, that they are carrying out contracts of another kind and that the position as a whole must give them and the people are where they are put, as their Chief says, to the defeaters of 1945, namely, in the trash of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u59	I'll give you two minutes' response to Mr. Rabbit, and the matter closes here. Because I am not going to waste a minute more at the expense of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u60	You'll give me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u61	And to clarify, the contracts were not filed. Mr. Rabbit invoked them. If he wants to testify in the Minutes, he can testify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr. President, excuse me. Take them, they're on the tax office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u63	That's a very top secret.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u64	Mr Pafile, because you said that they were tabled, I would clarify that they were not tabled. If he wants to, he can testify. But he invoked them, that's why I said it. One more, the other one. Here you go, Mr. Rabbit, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u65	I understand the difficult position of the JRC at the moment. He's here right now to tell us what? Nothing. We once again ask the Greek Parliament to give the way to the money that exists, to the sale by the Communist Party to an offshore company. Why are you so scared? Show us the route of money, and if we're wrong, we'll apologize. That's the first. Secondly, for the accusations made by the Parliamentary spokesman for so-called orders, he is ignorant, he is not at all aware of the case-file. He can get the courtesy to see why we're indicted. We are accused - if you do not know, Mr Palhei - of speeches. Take the case and read it. For the rest that you want to say to each other, to say it among you and not to go into the Greek people, because it is a lie. So we will bring you the case-file, because you have not read it, to see that the charge against the Chief and Members of the Golden Dawn does not include any orders for anything. It includes speeches we have made in our offices. And as far as - once again, I shall say - the route that exists, these gentlemen are - swinging our fingers and telling us about great interests - which are traded with great interests. They have made this sale, as if it were their grandfather's property, for a radio and television frequency, which never belonged to them and which they had taken from their so-called rivals in the New Democracy. When they bring the route of the black money that has been made from the JRC offices to the offshore company in Cyprus and it turns out to be clean, then I'll apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Pachilis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u67	I'm saying I won't spend too much saliva to answer because it's lost. As for the categories of speeches, it seems that knives call them speeches and murders they are called political action. With a clear command, everything comes out with videos and everything. And let them talk, Mr President, because it is probably not going to be possible for life again because of the murder.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u68	Can you tell us anything about the truck?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u69	For the rest, then, I have nothing else to answer. It's all known, everything's been deposited, everything. Everyone knows. And I'm just saying it's the heirs of the hood. Their ancestors did the same on the roadblocks, wore hoods and looked. And who did they show? The ones who fought the Germans and the conquerors. That is why we have nothing more to answer. It's all known, it's all open. And so no one needs to spend any more saliva.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u70	Absolutely clear. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, on behalf of the Democratic Alliance, it is my position. You didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u72	I said it when I first called you. I'm sorry I didn't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u73	It's all right, Mr. President. It's to change the atmosphere a little, which suddenly bored. I think justice will give her answer both with the calmness and calmness that distinguishes her and with the evidence available.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u74	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u75	For the Golden Dawn trial, Mr. Paphie. Alas, Mr. Palphie!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u76	So there's no misunderstanding. Deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u77	I am pleased that Mr Friends is here because I would like to start with the amendment he has tabled. Mr Philly, we agree on the amendment. Of course we agree. We agree, because it is necessary at the moment, even in October, in November, perhaps in some areas, to fill the gaps, which for the first time have been a great deal all over Greece. But I wanted to tell you this: I think you rightly want to cover and protect the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Education. However, it was not because the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Education was not aware of the situation it had taken over. Mr. Loverdos, who is here Parliamentary Representative, could tell you that at the time of delivery - receipt of the Ministry of Education in January 2015, there was an absolute description by file and the needs of primary and secondary education and the course of the NRPs. Mr Baltas thought it was right to throw all this into the nut bin and do nothing for months. There are gaps and there have always been, ladies and gentlemen, the first concern of the Minister of Education - and I say this because I was responsible for primary and secondary as State Secretary - was and is to provide for gaps. We know very soon about pensions, or we can calculate pensions, as we also know above - down where the gaps are moving and what resources must be used and can be exploited. We therefore knew from January 2015, Minister, that the new NSRP does not provide human resources and you cannot get it from there - to get the government from there - the funds necessary for the recruitment of substitute teachers. The delay this year at the expense of the operation of schools, kindergartens, primary and high schools has therefore essentially to do with the indifference and frustration of the previous government to deal with the problem. Do you want me to tell you something else? It's not inexperience, it's not ignorance. It was just that they believed that there were magical solutions, which they eventually do not exist. And because we're talking about the Ministry's finances, Minister, please, look at the fact that you're going to make a change of the officials responsible for the Ministry of Education and the IPE, for the Institute for Education Policy. But also for a number of such bodies, there should be wisdom and the protection of the good of education. And one final reference to the university budget. Minister, the universities are at the moment incapable of meeting their operational needs. The budget's on the air. I think there should be a special effort for this. I am going through the issues of the bill under discussion, which are many open and open, beginning with what we have said to every one of our positions since the beginning of the draft law debate. The Democratic Reconciliation is in favour. We are in favour of guaranteeing legality and order in the broadcasting field. We are in favour of a reform of the legislative framework. We've made it clear. This reform of the legislative framework should be carried out both with values and with rules ensuring the constitutionally guaranteed good of the right to information, as well as ensuring what the Constitution in Article 15(2) states how state control is exercised on radio and television. The control of the state - I said it the other day, but today I shall also be counting on the opinion submitted by the Scientific Council - is identified within the Constitution as being in the operation of the National Broadcasting Council. The Scientific Council of Parliament comes in and tells you that even in the current drafting of Article 2 there is no criterion according to which the Minister would be obliged to determine the number of licences. The Scientific Council gives you a number of European countries, where all - depending on the procedures followed - define objective criteria which will form the Minister's opinion. In this case, therefore, there is not only any criterion according to which the Minister must take his decision on the number of licences, as well as on the content or the starting price of licences, but he comes and tells you that there is a question here. There is also an issue of unconstitutionality for an additional reason. Even if we accept that the intention of the Minister of State is to amend the relevant paragraph and to be the opinion of the National Broadcasting Council, we all know that this opinion can be easily circumvented by the Minister. I said from the outset that what is needed in this case - something that would meet our view - is the agreement of the National Broadcasting Council, so that the Minister is bound by an independent authority. And since we are talking about the independent authorities, Mr Ministers, I think that here we should see the matter again. Their operation within the state is questioned. Their independence has been questioned since the beginning of this debate within the functioning of the institutions. They're not barbaric - I said it again - the independent authorities. It is an institutional counterweight to executive power. There may have been mistakes in the placement of persons. Very good. However, this cannot in any way lead us to question both their constitutional safeguard - for the five constitutionally guaranteed authorities - and the role they play on the other side in the functioning and quality of democracy. So, if there is thought - I do not know, Minister, so I am told - about legislative intervention to change the composition of the Broadcasting Council, you will find us across the street. And you will find us across, not only because there is a contrasting opinion from the Scientific Council, but also because we now have an PSE, which has four members, whose term of office is predetermined and three members whose term of office has been completed. So let us go with consensus in order to function this institution, which is a constitutionally guaranteed independent authority, to complete the number of members of the PSE and, from there on, we can work this law as well as when it is voted on. There are two other issues which are very important to us. The Scientific Council tells you: 'You are looking forward to permits for ten years. Renewal of licences do not you see?’ What do we do next? Is there the chaos? This is yet another element of the curiosity of this draft law. To say two words for regional channels too. Mr Minister, I think it should be made clear today that the relevant provisions are withdrawn. It must be clear, because we have too many regional questions. It's close to the number ninety and employs thousands of workers. Their function has a social dimension in the province. So what is needed today is - clearly - to withdraw the relevant provisions from the draft law. You must also say that, in the next either FYROM or legislation, there will be, after consultation with the institutions, a new legislative framework for regional instruments, but also for local instruments, which are excluded from the existing form of the draft law. You see that even today, after four days of discussion, there are too many issues open. There are issues relating to the functioning of the independent authorities. I have the impression that if you spoke of bravery on the part of the Anti-Population, so that there would be consensus on a major issue for the functioning of institutions and democracy, we would have to show it from all sides. I would ask you, Mr Papapas, to understand that the solution which requires consensus is that the PSE give a binding opinion, that is to say, that the Minister agrees. So the system is balanced, and so we could discuss any development of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u78	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u79	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u80	Please, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u81	About what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u82	For an intervention from the Minister of Education, Mr. Friend, which was made...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u83	No, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u84	Listen, Mr President, there has been a position of the Minister of Education on the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u85	Please, Mr. Loverdo, you weren't in the Chamber. We have consulted and said that the representatives and the speakers should also be present when they speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u86	No, this isn't about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u87	What's this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u88	The rapporteurs had begun to speak, and for reasons of Mr Mitsotakis' personal reasons, who had to leave, the Bureau accepted - quite rightly - to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u89	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u90	After breaking this series, the Minister for Education, as he has the right and responsibility, supported his amendment. We didn't react...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Loverdo, you weren't in the Chamber. It was not supported by the Minister of Education. I asked him, immediately after the first rapporteur, Mr Lappa, to have a picture of this House so that anyone who wants to speak, rapporteurs or parliamentary representatives, when he will speak at the time when he has to be put on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u92	But these speeches...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u93	Please don't waste time. After I give you the floor later, speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u94	Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u95	Well, but, Mr. Loverdo, that's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u96	The House has the advantage...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u97	I give you the floor for a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u98	The House has the advantage of having the Minister of Education here. The Minister of Education won't sit here all day. If you stay, Minister, all day here, we wait for you and talk at noon. I have no objections. I don't want the floor. But I know you'll be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u99	I don't get it. Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I am so sorry. You're unfair. While generally fair, you are unjust to me today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Loverdo, please very much. You weren't in the Chamber to know how we were in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u102	The Minister tabled an amendment. Shouldn't we talk now that the Minister is here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u103	I told you that you have the right, when the time comes, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u104	When the Minister's gone, will we?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u105	Yeah, that's how they all did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. We'll talk when he's away!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u107	That's how they all did. You want an exception!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u108	It is unacceptable that what you are doing and for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u109	Okay, in your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u110	You have no reason to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u111	In your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u112	You are the only president who so presides!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u113	All right, all right. You disagree, but everyone else agrees. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u114	This is an arbitrary opinion of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u115	Come on, Mr. Gioka. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that on our side the criticism we have had from the first moment in the bill and in the debate in the committee and in the debate in the first place has been exhausted. In fact, we were the only party that, from the outset and in the committee today, we took the same stand on the criticism of the bill, unlike other parties, which in the first debate in the committee said 'what good is the bill!' And that they were in a positive direction and in the course they turned around and changed their minds. I come to some of the issues that have been raised. Our criticism is not the restriction of licences, nor do we believe that the technological potential that exists must be used unlimitedly. We consider the technological potentials available and can also be restricted to these possibilities, depending on the people's needs. Our problem with today's bill is not the number of permits. The problem with the bill is the holders. That is, once again, by maintaining a regime that exists over the years, the media belonged, owned and owned, and by the specific draft law and by the tender procedure it chooses, to the large business groups. That's what needs to be overturned. This does not, however, change with this draft law. The only thing that changes is that, possibly, you may receive something from this tender procedure, undetermined, of course, since neither the General Accounting Office report nor approximate to the amount that can be saved through this procedure. The second question, which emerged from the debate and on which there was a controversy between the Government, the New Democracy, the other parties, and so on. What is this controversy? The controversy is whether the market will regulate itself or whether there will be State interference in market regulation and control. In our view, this is a false mistake. What does "market regulation" mean? Self-regulation of the market means, in simple terms, that basically the big fish eats the smallest and in the end the strong ones survive and dominate the monopolies, the big business groups, whether we talk about the media or any other sector of the economy. Will your state intervention, the intervention that is being made with this draft law, change this reality? Aren't they going to get the licenses to buy through the auction contest again? The little ones will take them? In the case of regional channels and in relation to municipal channels, there are also conditions for some young people to fly out of the market and collect the pie in even less hands. Therefore, either by self-regulation of the market, which the New Democracy says or by your own state intervention, we are basically another way to the exact same result. Second issue...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u117	Just the opposite is true. And it seems to us that you do not understand that this is how society and decentralisation are served.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u118	No relationship, Mr. Famele. No relationship. And see what arrangements are being made for both municipal TVs and regional channels, which are basically leading to concentration. And this is also the criticism they make of a number of institutions. The names of the shares, where you are, Mr. Famele, and what you said the other day. There is an exception - and we say so again - from the denomination of shares for listed stock exchanges, members of the European Union and of the OECD. And because here, Mr. Famelos said the other day that he was named, I would tell him he was wrong. The provision of an exemption for shares in listed companies is available in each public tendering procedure. If you see public tenders for contracts, for supplies, this term always comes in. Why? Because there is an exemption for listed companies from the members of the European Union and the OECD. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Mr Voutsis spoke yesterday - and rightly so - about the 'basic shareholder' law. Just because there is this exception, in the 2005 ‘basic shareholder’ Act 2005, there was the prediction that such listed companies cannot hold more than 10% of the media share capital. This provision was, of course, rejected by the European Union and the Commission, because it was incompatible with Community law, the freedom to move capital, all these sacred and loyal things, not ours, and today this draft law comes and does not even place the restriction on these companies in the 2005 Act. So there is an exception to the obligation to name the shares, and you basically respect this regime, with everything that implies for the controlability, and it goes by saying. Third issue: Workers. We believe that if these provisions do not change, and there is no explicit provision that we are talking about sectoral collective agreements for staff, which should also exist throughout the period of application of the licence, and not if one takes the leave and then the employment relationships deteriorate to maintain it, then the work jungle in this area is legalised. In fact, we will be tabling an amendment, which was also an earlier commitment from the SYRIZA, to change the provision in the Multifibre Arrangement that was voted for in the first implementation of the OECD toolbox, which exempted technicians and cinemas from having a licence to pursue a profession. We will table an amendment to this issue in order to change the regulation that had been passed on to the Government of New Democracy and PASOK in the first phase of the implementation of the OECD toolbox. Fourth issue in relation to the state of ERT. We have no objections, we have said so in committee. We, in fact, believe that such infrastructure must be exclusively state-owned. We agree with the description made by Mr Spirtzis the other day in the debate on the procedure for conducting the DIGEA competition. But here, you are actually building a state-owned limited company that will compete with the private company. Here again, we repeat that there is absolutely no example that coexistence between public and private sectors in a number of sectors of the economy and competition between them in the final analysis has benefited the people, the needs of Mr Santer. This will not be done with this company either, which will also be polite, so that there can be access to a number of services it will provide. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] As far as the National Communication Policy Council is concerned, other representatives will speak from our party. I just want to say that a mechanism of governmental state propaganda is actually being built, with fully controlled and filtered personnel. It is no coincidence that the recruitment of staff, journalists and officials from the lowest steps towards the highest levels is done by direct intervention and choice from the Minister concerned, and we are essentially talking about a mechanism for the reproduction of sovereign government propaganda both internally and abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to say two words about the Audio Center.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u119	And with these words to close, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u120	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. We have another proposal, to support and to finance the existing public bodies that exist in this area. There is the Greek Film Center, there are the Film and Audiovisual Archives, public institutions that are underfunded, which are in a bad financial situation. Instead of doing this, you are once again building an anonymous company, which will co-operate with private entrepreneurs in this area and with what this implies for the use of the artistic work and, of course, for the role of the creator, in this context, which is essentially an integral part of the market laws that are particularly predominant in this area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude with the amendment from the Ministry of Education. We will support it, Mr. Friend. Of course, there is the problem here that there are no gaps and shortages in schools again with the issue of substitutes, wages, etc. You described a situation. You said about appointments. I invoke your statement, your position in the debate on the programming declarations, which has not actually been committed to permanent appointments. You said to yourself: 'We will explore the possibility if we can make permanent appointments'. So here you are good at describing the problem, but it is your own policy that maintains it, that it is acidifying and is not solved by such amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u121	You need to put a perfect one, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u122	Nevertheless, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Philly a question. I sought it before, I did not succeed. Give me the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Loverdo, you will when you take the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u125	Because we have consulted representatives to talk after noon, because we have agreed to talk after 1 o'clock, one question I would like to ask him, because when he spoke, he spoke out of programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u126	Shouldn't the Minister be here then?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u127	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u128	Won't the Minister be here when you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u129	I don't know if it's gonna be. I'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u130	Let him ask the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u131	One question I want to ask, it's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u132	I did not say that it was bad, but I say this, Mr Loverdo, without saying it for you personally. I'm making an appeal. We all agree that, in order for this House to be better, Members must also speak more. One of the conditions for doing this is that the other speakers should respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u133	Yes, but it is an amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u134	It would have been over now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u136	I'd be done. Minister, I heard you talking about gaps and gaps in schools in the morning, that is to say, emergency gaps in cover and gaps in another need, not so urgent. I agree and we will support the amendment. However, because I have heard you give some figures this morning, I would also like to say to the Members who will vote, but to you that, because some things have not been done, as Mr Papatheodorou said, in time when we handed over to Mr Kourakis, we have delivered a very serious file. We said to him: "You have no money. You have the possibility with the troika, if you discuss and close an agreement with her - you closed it - "to give you the right of ten thousand exceptionally hired with the AACC". He said to me: 'I don't care about the troika.' It was that time. That's what went out. We had to close the deal to cover ten thousand permanent posts. That was matured. I gave him the study we had done. Look for her from Mr. Kourakis. He'll give it to you. If she doesn't give it to you, we'll send it to you. I told him then that the Public Investment Programme should be mobilised. He didn't get it. I told him that the ESDP should be mobilised, as Mr Papatheodorou said. It cannot cover everything, but special treatment, which is justified by the NRP, not philosophers. He wouldn't listen to that. I told him that he should 'turn' the transfers quickly and generally the mobility of staff. He didn't. We've reached where we've arrived. He didn't post a circular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u137	The question, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u138	Now you're asking us to get this money from the Public Investment Programme. That should have happened a long time ago. No matter when the House votes, you do it now. That's fine. Slowly, but good. How many thousands of places is the total prediction? Because, Minister, last year the gaps we covered were sixteen thousand. Ten thousand of them were when the school year opened. If we calculate these pensions as well, these emergency gaps will increase. Give the image you have what we cover with and what else you will need. Anything else you need, we'll give it to you as a parliament as soon as possible. But we want to understand that you are aware of the scale of the problem and what is being solved by this intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u139	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u140	As we have said in the programming statements, Mr Loverdos, we will seek to be appointed in schools this year - I mean by the programme of deputys either from the NSRF or from the Public Investment Programme - nine and a half thousand alternates. They are also the wage earners and reduced staff. In the proposal we are making today, we hope that this figure will be increased by a thousand to two thousand. I say this because the gaps created by the NRP, especially in the three regions that I mentioned in Attica, of course, which are the largest share of the gaps, will have to cover them as a priority from the Public Investment Programme. We are aware that other gaps will emerge during the year, as they arise. This reality is known in education. That's why we're keeping a stock and we're predicting recruitment. You are right, at least in finding out, as are other speakers from the JRC who spoke earlier, that the problem of education needs to be addressed, not by chance, but by appointments of permanent. The debate that we are having in the context of the national social dialogue will also concern this issue, namely how we can cover with permanent recruitment in the next four years, starting with a brave, if possible, hiring dose from next year, this great gap, which has - and we stressed this earlier - a serious educational impact. In recruitment, we have made a hierarchy. We want to place a greater emphasis on special treatment, for reasons that we have mentioned in detail. We want to strengthen artistic and musical schools where the number of recruitments is currently low. We want to fill the gaps that exist in primary schools, with all specialties. Moreover, in secondary education, the three branches that will need some assistance are the three main, i.e. philosophers, mathematicians and physicists. That's our programming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u141	Minister, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u142	I have to tell you that I do not adopt the criticism, which you have outragedly made, of my predecessors at the Ministry of Education. You know that the position of the Minister of Education is a very difficult position in terms of responsibility. In conditions of budgetary crisis and coercion, things are even more difficult. And Mr Baltas and Mr Kourakis - and I am not saying this by some kind of party solidarity - have given their best self to inspire the reopening of the educational system. They have fallen into the problem of the ESDP, which I mentioned earlier, but also the problem of judicial involvement, for which the SYRIZA Government is not responsible. I mean the involvement of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u143	But he didn't publish the circular. We published it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u144	But, Mr. Loverdo...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u145	Please. You're responding to every intervention!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u146	Please, Mr. Loverdo. You don't have the floor. Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Loverdo, please. Don't ruin a climate if we're all agreed. Don't mess it up with controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u148	Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u149	I'll be right over. We'll talk about this again. The universities, as Mr Papatheodorou said, are facing a problem of underfunding. That's true. Our choice, according to our hierarchy, is a priority in primary and secondary education, in the context of narrow budgetary margins. For universities, we have promised joint actions to reduce energy costs, PPC, etc., and also to reduce municipal charges. These are a major burden on schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u150	Minister, this is not about the amendment. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u151	I conclude by saying that universities can also ask for funding from the European Investment Bank. Some discussions have begun and we will see how they will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u152	Minister, with this amendment, how many will you get?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u154	Thousand to two thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u155	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative if the Minister remains.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Carras, you have also been influenced by the surrounding atmosphere. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u158	Should you remind the parliamentary group I represent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Amyras has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we Members, the Parliamentary eleventh Chamber of Deputies, have come to the debate on the draft law on the licensing of television stations well and from the outset to the question whether or not we need a law dealing with the control of the broadcasting market, the part of this economy which is directly related to democracy, we said 'yes'. It takes a law that puts the broadcasting scenery in a classroom and, at the same time, put it together, break the triangle parties - canal - banks. That's an easy question. We all agree that a law like this needs, as I described it to you. But what answer does this draft law give to the question of who should decide how much channels they will be going to operate in the country and how much money the canals should give for their licenses? This is a dilemma very important. It's at the core of this change that needs to be made in the space. So who should decide? The Pope or the seven? Where 'Pappas', of course, the former Minister of State, in this case Mr. Pappas, and the seven members of the PSE, are concerned. Let's see the two candidacies. First, the PSE. The EPP, which is constitutionally regulated under Article 15(2) of the Rules of Procedure, is to be found in Article 15(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. It has the fate and role of all the independent authorities in Greece and Europe, the role of mushroom in the woods. Where there is shadow, where there is manure, where there is underground, there grows a mushroom. Who are these seven? The ‘seven’ are four, i.e. in essence no one, since the PSE is not legally composed. Who will they be? We don't know. This House, this House, is responsible with the increased majority of the four fifths of the Conference of Presidents to find those who are capable, above parties, to pay the PSE's seats. Will they be tall and blue-eyed? Will they be wise and old? Are they gonna be brilliant brains? Will they be Greeks abroad? It's our responsibility, all the parties, to find the best. Second candidacy - I would remind you - to the question of who will have the power to decide how much channels will work on the day after the law is implemented and how much money the canals should give, is, we said, the respective Minister of State: Today the Pope, tomorrow someone else, the day after tomorrow. The old man can hear the wish, and 30 years later, the retreat of becoming a minister can do it! Are we going to trust the Minister? Trust him on what criteria? Should we trust him that the Minister will decide how to shape and how to make the broadcast scenery in the country? On what criteria? With the criteria it has in mind and which has no obligation to explain, publish, put them into the suffering of the experts or the criteria of the PSE, which should be justified, substantiated and subject to public scrutiny? Article 2 of that bill gives the answer. The law that Mr Pappas wants to vote on clearly says so: the Minister in question will decide on all these critical and important matters. We ask: What guarantee? On what criteria? With what transparency? With what guns against the interlocutory? There are no such clauses, these security variations. Today is the Minister, Mr. Pappas. Tomorrow, Mr. Pappas will be in Antipopulation. I'm sure he won't see - how can we say it? - in a positive way and trust the other Minister, who will decide on these major and critical issues. And he'll do well not to see him with confidence, just like we don't see with confidence not Mr. Poppa as a person but his position. And here, for example, we will have reason to worry: yesterday the 50-page report by the Group of States against the Corruption of the Council of Europe, which speaks of sources of corruption by Greek Members, was published. It is the GRECO group that refers to Greece. I put it in the Minutes in a flash drive, because it's fifty-six pages. I'd like you to put the document in the file and return it to me after the flash drive. I put forward the last two pages of the report with the nineteen proposals. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So Caesar’s wife is not enough to be honest, she must also be honest. We do not accuse anyone of complexion, but we ask Mr. Pappas: why do you insist on keeping the decisive responsibilities for yourself? Why are you favouring the National Broadcasting Council? I only have two responsibilities, says Mr Papapas, to decide how much channels will work in the country and how much money the canalarchs should give as a starting price for the auction. You have six more responsibilities, Minister. It's not just those two. You define the minimum paid-up share capital of regional channels, which will claim a licence. You determine by means of the Specialty Register the minimum number of ratings per category. You are adjusting the own funds that the channels must keep by your decision. You can modify the frequency maps and appoint five of the seven members as far as ERT - NET is concerned. We would tell you to look less centralised and move in another way. Be a little more taller. Many of these responsibilities should be given to the PSE. So we, the well-meaning Members of the River, who have come here well in this Chamber and in the three meetings, where we are working, discussing and studying this bill, tell you: Move in the same way and reverse your position with the PSE. You reasoned opinion, the PSE is decisive. Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, do not want beads. We have civilians, not voters. The voters want the beads. Citizens want to see, at last, some of the political system messing with the stranding, lifting up the carpet, finally getting light and cleanliness under this blurred and gray landscape of the complex parties, banks and canals. That's the whole point. We, ladies and gentlemen, have shown our good will. We told him that yes, a law needs to be taken care of all these issues of interlocutoryism - I will say directly - but the government must also show the courage. Is the government bold enough to mess with the few-gaugeers in the complexion? Does the government itself dare to decide that the Minister must not be the emperor of everything? The PSE must take decisive responsibilities and by then we will expect to hear whether you will make this shift and shift the centre of gravity from the Minister of the Canalarch, from the Emperor to the constitutionally structured landscape, which the PSE must decide. Ladies and gentlemen, we will expect to hear and, of course, we are telling you that for us it is very crucial that you do not leave yourself, that you yourself decide as a new case of disguised conflicting issues which have been afflicted by the political system, the economy and society for twenty-five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Mr. Kokalis of the Independent Greeks has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we said the day before yesterday at the beginning of the bill that this bill serves above all the principle of transparency and with two words we could call it the bill of cynical justice. It regulates self-evident. What do you mean? It obliges businessmen to be lawful, to be licensed. After twenty years of unsuccessful legislative initiatives, even this review process, the current government comes to put a class and what does it say? The self-evident thing: If you want, Mr. Businessman, to deal with the media, you have to have permission. Temporary permits issued in 2000 and 2001 were the spark to light the fire of interlocutory. For giving temporary leave, necessarily, the government needed the operation and vice versa. What does this bill do with basic articles. Does it define the flagship of democratic processes, which is it? The auction. Here too, it would be a good thing if all parties were to be placed. Do they agree with the invitation to tender as a means of obtaining licences? One can say 'no' by entrusting or otherwise. The Greek people must know that this government is proposing to legislate as a way of obtaining the authorisation to operate the auction. Who organises it, who validates it and who decides on the formality? The National Broadcasting Council. According to Article 2, for which we have also received criticism, the Minister arranges for permits. Well, the Minister has to take care of something. He is given the opportunity of both the Constitution and the law. It does not, however, decide on the way in which the tender is to be conducted, it is not him who will ratify the tender, it is not him who will reject the tenders, but the National Broadcasting Council. Who have the right? Anonymous companies, consortia and OTA companies. Article 4: Minimum guaranteed share capital. This draft law, too, has been criticised for Article 5. We also said at the meeting of the Standing Committees that rights are being violated in the course of the development of a legislative initiative. Article 5 conflicts with the right to economic freedom, which the shareholder of the public limited company has, with the public interest, the principle of transparency. In this respect, the principle of transparency is more prevalent. That is right, therefore, it is compulsory for the state to know who these shareholders are. Legislative improvements are ensured and put into effect also the prohibitions of Law 3414/2015 for the main shareholder. Article 8: Minimum duration of programme. Article 9: Staff. Already, with relative legislative improvement, it is up to the relevant ministers, at least for regional channels, the number of staff. Article 10 lays down negative conditions which are under the law. Article 11: The tendering procedure, as well as in accordance with Article 12, shall examine at the pre-selection stage the applications and draw up a list of the qualifying candidates. In 14, where improvements were made, the notary type was deleted in case of transfer of licences. And Article 15, of course, sets out the reasons why it will be withdrawn - and it must be withdrawn - the authorisation. Article 16 then provides for the setting-up of a subsidiary exclusively for digital transmissions. In the whole committee procedure and so far, the opposite arguments have been heard and it makes sense. It was, on the one hand, New Democracy, that there was a risk that this law would be unconstitutional. The argument, however, is exactly the same as PASOK’s argument in 2015 to the main shareholder.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u163	It's three decisions. We did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u164	But he was judged. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u165	Yeah, but it wasn't digital at the time. It was proportionate. That's three decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u166	It's three, yes. This government reiterates a provision, which has already been decided by the Constitution, at least for the constitutional wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u167	Okay. It is clear from the main considerations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u168	From there on, I think it is a one-way for opposition parties to vote on this bill. It is a one-way, in fact, because contrary to arguments such as the fact that the Minister is given much more powers, they are not capable, they are not convincing, they do not stand with reason. This is because this bill is about self-evident. What? That it puts one class in, stipulates that all the businessmen involved in the media must be licensed, that the procedure is the auction. Does the Opposition agree, yes or no? Can the licence be issued in a different way? Don't give it? To continue with the temporaryity of licences, which have been considered unconstitutional by the Council of State, too? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I think it's a one-way bill vote. It is imperative that all opposition parties finally stand up to the circumstances and, beyond party divisions, say 'yes' to this bill and on the principle and on the articles. Of course, we also support the amendment by the Minister of Education. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-four students and students and four teachers from the 2nd High School of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We close the cycle of special speakers with Mr. Saridis and open a circle, even small, with MPs. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Central Association started our election campaign a little earlier than the others. We had seen the obligation, as a small party outside the House, to find people, to find worthy executives who would frame our lists, whose principles and values would be identical to the values of the Central Association. We returned all over Greece, with our President many times. To every one of those who was interested, the President said the same expression: "It is a great responsibility to be a congressman and you have to withstand it." That is a great responsibility. In a Greece that we are called upon to vote for insurance, for pensions, for the future of our children, in a country which is affected by the recession, in Greece where farmers and farmers come out with tractors on the streets, which thousands of borrowers are in the bars for the end of the protection of the first home that they are planning, where VAT on private education is still looking at its equivalent in the four major tax evasion cases, in a Greece that needs truths, in a parliament that President Holland has come to say that it is the obligation of the five hot spots instead of saying that we have an obligation to stop the wars that create them, in a Greece that changes policy every time, not because the government is changing, but simply because a minister changes to that Greek government brings a bill for SMEs and within it also includes foreign policy. Has anyone asked the Diplomatic Body for Articles 22 to 43? Oh, no. Only the Commission has sent us a memorandum on the follow-up to the press. We brought all the bodies involved in this bill. Did we bring the Diplomatic Body? Oh, no. And we have no information on this. I appeal to everyone, but above all to those who vote 'yes' and which are expected, poorly in my opinion, but will vote. I would ask you to listen to me, and I would ask you to listen to me, because the responsibility for those who brought the Centro Association to the House is great for us and for all it should be. I will not insist on Articles 2 to 19. They're almost all over the wings. Our parliamentary representative will be put back to them later. It's already been placed. All the wings covered in one way or another. In other words, the government has changed, in other words, no. Someone's gonna vote, someone's not. But what I have seen is that in the fifth chapter of this, in Articles 22 to 43, this bill does not talk about channels, but about foreign policy. It delivers the country's foreign policy to the hands appointed by the government. We deliver national sovereignty, not just on our economic issues. With this bill, we deliver Greece's voice. In this draft law we deliver the exercise of a national foreign policy to people who do not qualify for it. I cannot understand why you are not reacting, honourable Members. Anyone who reads Articles 22 and 43 will understand that we are giving the right to the government's choice journalists, of doubtful knowledge and experience, to pursue a national foreign policy. What am I supposed to tell you first, to document it? I ask the educated people of this place to speak. The definitions set out in Article 22 are in themselves the indicators of the quality of this draft law. One of them, for example, tries to define the phrase "showing the image abroad" and so in Chapter V, Article 22(c), the following are written: "Showing the image of the country abroad is the promotion and promotion of the quality characteristics and the presentation of quantitative or demographic data and data from the Greek society and the Hellenic Republic before the international public opinion". Where is my respectable friend, who I honor from a young man, Mr. Zouraris? I would like to hear his opinion on Article 22. Please, I would like you to honour us with your opinion, especially the definition of Article 22(h). He's small in size. Listen to him if you haven't read him. He says "Public mediation is the mediation of journalists for international negotiations". Yes, sir. This is for the government, press mediation. It recommends the exercise of a governmental foreign policy. In Article 23 it is understood that the Minister will not take the title of "Minister of the Canalarch". According to Article 23, the Minister on Monday has the right to pursue a foreign policy without the checks and restrictions which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to impose and which the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to suffer. Mr. Kotzia, Minister of Foreign Affairs, tell me where I'm wrong about interpretation. Will the Minister of State have the right to pursue a foreign policy? We deliver foreign policy to journalists, yes or no? Article 24 talks about some strategic planning. Strategic design of what? The Minister? The Deputy Minister? The reporter? Homeland? Who? In Article 25, what are you going to do with the establishment of the National Communication Policy Council? Since this Council is composed exclusively of Ministers, one wonders what you are doing at the Ministerial Council. Are you and the ministers going to be absent permanently from all the Council meetings, so will some legal substitutes be exercised by national politicians without drawing the attention of the people? What's the matter, gentlemen? What is it that you have called part of the 'SEE' Ministerial Council? This thing reminds us of other times. Article 26 is a translated proof of the quality of this draft law, which contains Article 22, as we have said, of the definitions. Where are your constitutional reflexes, main constitutionalists? What do you have to say about the constitutionality of Article 26? After spending a page and an article on definitions, improvisations and imperials, you have also spent some pages and seventeen articles, from Article 27 to Article 43, to settle people. For example, I quote the titles of these articles, so that the world understands what is happening: "Following the Press and Communication Offices", "Counsel and Communication Secretaries' Division", "Following positions of the Consultative and Communication Secretaries' Branch", "Promotion, Special Expenditure, Transfers, Posts", and go by saying. In a few days I am invited to the commemoration events of "Sun 1940-1941" in Thessaloniki. It was then that, with a sense of responsibility the government at the time, the Greek people had said "OH" to those who demanded the country's tradition. With such bills, it won't be long before it's done already. With the responsibility of the President of the Centroon Association, when he looked at voters in the eye, with this same responsibility, we look at yours and say "no" in the bill at first. We say 'no' to Articles 22-43. We say 'no' to policies that do not have design and vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mrs. Canelley is the first on the list of speakers. Until Mrs Canelli comes to Stepma, I would like to inform the House that as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy at today's sitting Mrs Sophia Vultesis is appointed. Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I will not go into the permits because I have the impression that this has now been exhausted. In any case, he'll be exhausted in reality. Believe me, it will actually run out! At some point you should look deeply at the subject of the presence of techniques. Otherwise, people will go out on the street to defend their work, along with the right to make it professional. You know, if you see the bill, you'll find there's no technician anywhere. There aren't any. There are no technicians. We're removing conditions that no matter how advanced technology is, we shouldn't. For example, the motage, even if you don't do it like they used to do it with the film, and you do it with a computer, it's an opinion and position. That's why he wants a professional. And I turn to a government that has used the term'montazier' more than once for political reasons. If you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u173	No, actually.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u174	On the substance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u175	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u176	On the substance! Listen! There is an old profession called "Shoes" and they were women who worked very hard and without any right, most of the time at home either making the vodka for shoes or doing the work from the time of the knitting machines and many other things, which were also tax haven. It's not like that, dear colleague. These professions were extended to the exploitation and capitalist possession of all modern media technology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u177	We agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u178	So, if anyone wants to innovate, get ahead of them and think about them and they're ahead. So as far as the technicians are concerned, listen to me. It is not sufficient to place ‘one channel’, for example, ‘when it has three news releases’. Do you want me to do this at zero cost? I'll have a stock exchange card, a sports card and a policy bulletin. Three days of five. Am I out of law? I'm telling you, the ninety minutes where I want them. If I could open a debate on this, I would tell you that the papers actually define the number of technicians. If I have no respondents and respondents on the ground, for example, I will rely on the cheap purchase of material from the phones, from the spontaneous, from these commonly-inspired, suspect and many times rich, not always spontaneous, opinion polls, schoolchildren and recorders, which are almost the whole of the world in modern form of social - and not necessarily social - networking. Therefore, ten things had to get clearer. I will return to what, in my opinion, harms the country in its original arrest, as it is made. And it hurts her and will easily hurt any Prime Minister. Anyone! Let me ask you a question: has the country of Iraq recognized as a state? Iraqi Kurdistan's capital is typically Arbil. You're building a second-class press office in Arbil without an embassy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u179	There's a reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u180	Listen to me! When you discuss the articles, the general political position has taken place in the debate at the outset. I can't sit down and make you an ideological political position in each of them! Here we go find trouble! Dear colleague, you're a journalist!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u181	It's a photographic device!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u182	I don't want to enter into dialogue. You'll get me one of the few eight minutes I've got! The president's not helping, I'm doing it myself! I've had 15 years, and I know how it's done. Don't eat me my five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u183	I don't eat you time. I'm telling you it's a photographic device!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u184	It's a problem here. It's a problem! Then I told you last time and you thought what? That I was attacking myself when I told you "the unfortunate Prime Minister, don't you feel sorry for him?" Tomorrow morning put anyone you want. Put the gentleman, the gentleman, the Prime Minister's seat. Is it possible for you to build, be the Prime Minister responsible and give a line for things he doesn't know? I'll get you an example, because I'm saying he doesn't know. When you move on to determining what the press offices are doing, tell me what you want, since you are fans of the free economy, of the free market, of competition. I have pointed out that it is dangerous for the foreign press to accept 50,000 sponsorships each. You may be ignoring that, for example, in large countries such as the United States, such as Russia - I mean large volumes, in terms of size, of influence, imperialist countries - where you go and you are a correspondent in a country, entering a parallel list, not a parallel programme, where you are considered by definition an agent of your country. Agent, you're counting! That's why you hear very often that this was caught and the spy was caught. And you come and say that the Prime Minister will give the mandate for both content, direction, image? And among them, you go to responsibilities - I've seen the old arrangement - which you say the head of the press office will be on programs, TVs, in the country, in the area that it will be and written. Is that gonna fix the image of the country? Because this is where I start, and I go, I know the job. The head of the press office must first of all coordinate, secondly, to facilitate. You're going to make a state propaganda. But, as you do, it'll be propaganda against us. Against us! You won't be able to control it. What are you gonna do? It will come out and give an interview to the head of the press office in the country and the city "f". And there will also be five Greek correspondents here - private and state, it does not concern me - and they will give an interview "h". What will you have out as a picture of the country? Freedom and pluralism of opinion? Because you're talking about image. Image is made in too many ways and reproduced. It reproduces an excellent picture, even by the word. You don't have to have a picture. That's why I'm telling you she needs a technician. Can I get you an example? The suitcase that accompanied the president's nuclear weapons, did anyone see it? Nobody! And everyone saw it! As soon as someone was seen moving in a uniform next to the president, they saw the suitcase. Therefore, do not discuss this matter 'poor loops'. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] You say they'll write, they'll update the diplomatic principle of their headquarters. It's coming back! You arrive here and you make a press office in areas where there are no embassies. Is that gonna make the image of the country or break it down into a oxenized form? And I have no other way to give you to understand the danger from non-centralised control. Be careful, in capitalist conditions you need extraordinarily, to achieve an elementary national control of the image of the country. You know better than me that you need it, because anyway the pyramid is inverted. It's not coming down, it's up and down from the interests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately, at less than fifteen seconds. But we're talking about pixel, pixel is the modern form of the old Byzantine mosaic. To achieve high resolution, you need more pixels, but much more technology to bring them close to, to make a single picture. It can't be done that way. I would invite you to make these detailed articles, to leave them for the future, to build a founding place, to sit down and to see how you can do so, which, not to offend the country's foreign policy, nor to leave it in the hands of those who have money to buy positions, conferences, opinions and programmes. Why do you know something? The way you have it organized, the press offices are media shops, which will buy and sell time. And since it's media shop in this market, the last one to have power is any government and any Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u185	Mrs. Gara from SYRIZA has the floor. I would ask that we keep time to prevent more Members from waiting for stunted parliamentary representatives, ministers and various speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to return the debate a little, because rather our disagreement is fundamental to this bill. We have all recognised that there is an unreserved landscape with regard to broadcasting, which is characterized by the stigma of a very intense interface. So I have been waiting for all of the political forces to contribute to an initiative and debate, which will lay down basic rules of organisation and equality in this landscape. On the contrary, by following these positions with no arguments, in particular the Officerial Opposition, only one phrase and one image spin as a wedge in my mind: "Don't tell me the circles of the interoperable turbulence." Again and again the same phrase. One weed that, however much you expel, colleagues from the counter-population remind me of it constantly, unequivocally and out-of-dately. So I heard, through the New Democracy rapporteur's mouth on the committees: 'The new bill introduces a number of provisions which circumvent pluralism and pluralism, operate anachronistically, create anarchy and confusion in the broadcasting field'. Has the rapporteur of the New Democracy clearly described the current situation? A situation that was maintained and strengthened by the same people. A situation where they do not want any intervention that would upset their own interests. The answers are obvious to all of us. But let us see how the communication scientists describe the landscape in Greece. I read: 'The entry of private broadcasters into the system has brought great changes to the landscape, which has since been characterised by full anarchy, since almost no body has complied with the existing provisions. Thus, radio deregulation was a liberation, carried out without any program or study. In practice, deregulation was the result of the political context, mainly based on political purposes. However, the granting of television licences also seems to have been made on the basis of political objectives. Of course, Greek broadcasting is closely linked to the contradictions, tensions and purposes of the political system. As this is characterized by a highly centralised and paternalistic character of political power, it is not by chance that the country's broadcasting field is highly politicised." I'm not talking about it. The media scientists say it. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past twenty-five years, many legislative interventions have been made to get into the broadcasting landscape of the country. And I would remind you very briefly: the 1989 Act, the PSE is being set up. A 1993 Act obliges the ERC to grant television licences. The 1995 Act regulates frequency-setting and licensing regime. The result? Licences have not been issued, but decisions to impose fines are not accompanied by their implementation and enforcement. The daily violation of programming arrangements by private television stations is a proof that canalarchs have nothing to fear. And we continue: The 2004 Karamanlis Act for the main shareholder. Breakdown for season and fist for interests and national contractors. This law had been discussed for years. It has never been applied to the substance. And yet, does it not seem to any of us strange that the New Democracy of 2015 opposes the New Democracy of 2004? However, one of the main elements of this draft law is Article 6, which describes the incompatibilities of television licences and clear terms. It is the incompatibility of the canalarch with the one concluding public contracts. Of course, various inmates in this House with no arguments react to the resolution of the new bill, because they realize their sovereignty is disrupted. A dominance that is maintained through interlocutory. Also, a reasonable question is why the New Democracy is in favour of this interlocutory. The answer is very simple: Located in the smart and insidious deal of the Samara-Venizelos coexistence with canalarchs for the 'DIGEA monopoly'. According to the European Regulation, as many colleagues have said from this Step, the network provider cannot be a content provider. What do we call 'DIGEA'? The exact opposite. Here, then, as to why the great reaction of counterpopulation that has ruled for forty years and screwed its chairs by taking a rebellion in systemic media, with particular preference in the 20: 00 issues. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the proposed bill is concerned, we must finally make it clear that frequencies are a public asset and also resources in scarceness. So valuable resources cannot be given to friends and national contractors. This bill is a follow-up to SYRIZA's expressed policy on the reorganisation of the broadcasting system in the country. We must not forget, of course, the SYRIZA Government's initiative at last to apply the advertising tax and to charge the fees imposed on television stations for the use of national frequencies. Also, the lifting of the DIGEA monopoly is considered necessary, both in order for there to be healthy competition for the benefit of citizens, and for there to be greater coverage of the digital signal in all regions, one of them and the extreme Evros, from which I come, where there is a failure to broadcast a signal in many parts of the prefecture. We consider it incomprehensible that there was no provision for the outermost regions in the context of social and national interests and I will not analyse it any more. The new bill also establishes conditions for transparency in the ownership status and financial media. The denomination of the shares, the incompatibilities of the shareholders, the ‘where they were’ of them as well as the tax information of them and the bank are necessary licensing parameters. Don't you think all this should be checked out? Finally, Article 9 is particularly important when setting the clause on the number of staff. I believe that it leads to the retention of unemployment, the safeguarding of jobs and the protection of employment, in a place where the middle-aged working population rises. I am also calling on the Minister here, and I propose that a provision should be introduced, which will provide for annual checks on the payment of workers' insurance contributions, so that black work can also be stopped in any way that we can. Ladies and gentlemen, I call upon the entire political system to strike down the misery of the broadcasting system, while also hitting the political and media involvement. Let us defend our obligation to independence of political forces and to exercise power for the benefit of the people and, at the same time, to independence of information and of forming public opinion. At the same time, let us defend workers' right to quality work and to protection of journalism, let us defend citizens' right to quality information, entertainment and uninterrupted information. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I would like to mention that the ERT's defence movement and the outcome of the elections and the referendum have shown that systemic media and manipulation methods have been bankrupt - thirty seconds, Mr President - they have sincerely been bankrupt in our conscience and our overall fantasy to create a new society. And since the word 'culture' has been heard several times, I would like to close with this: Culture means respect for the Constitution and human rights. Culture is the way we use public goods, such as public frequencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Tsoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled by the government is urgent. This reminds him of a phrase by the relentless George Papandreou when he was asked to deal with an urgent matter, and he replied to his Minister, Mr Papapas: "My child, there are no urgent issues. There are urgent people." Mr. Pappa, you're an emergency man! And I understand that you are an urgent man on the basis of this theory, because you had no reason to deprive the House and yourself of two more, three, four days of discussion on an issue that is crucial and crucial, because it concerns the right, as the decision of the Council of State, the information, the right to be informed and the right to be informed. You also turned that into the size of an urgent procedure, at the same time that the government - and it is not neutral - omitted forty-three supreme judges, an unprecedented number! - in judgments of Supreme Courts. Forty-three supreme judges have been omitted from their right to promotion in Vice-Chairs of Supreme Courts. Thirteen councillors were omitted the day beforehand to promote Vice-Presidents. Ten virtues, nineteen advisors of the Court of Auditors and two Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors were omitted for promotion to the President. At the same time, the Emergency Government, by a disproportionate decision of the Ministerial Council, is paying tribute to the Secretary-General of Public Revenue. I wonder, what will be the conduct and reaction of the Government, which has badly done offspring, if justice renders Mrs Sabbaidou white and innocent? At the same time, the government embarrassedly attended the messes, the unworthiness, the uncertainties, the omissions, the secrets of its officials from the "outside" which, by decision of the relevant committee of Parliament, are investigating sworn accountants. Mr. Ministers, whoever opposes as prosecutor rules as a defendant. This epithet that has suffered many governments and many oppositions you have not understood. However, to be honest, the draft law of the Urgent Ministers has two good starting points. One right starting point is that the issue must be regulated and the other correct starting point is that the licences must obviously be auctioned. Apart from these two right, basic starting points, the rest of the building is prone to criticism, suspicion, mistakes and a desire and a tendency to control the crucial democratic information. I explain and read by violating the Rules of Procedure. I read from the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament that: ‘Since the number of auctioned content licences and a starting price by category of auctioned licence are not specific detailed or technical issues in respect of the procedure, it would be appropriate to lay down in the text of the proposed provision, even indicatively, not restrictively, criteria on the basis of which the above Ministerial Decisions will be adopted’. The crucial thing in what you do is the number of licences and the starting price per category of auctioned licence. And this crucial element, this twin of critical elements, you hold it for yourself. Instead of correcting the incompetence and inability of the PSE to become the dominant element of control and guidance of the television scenery, you take on you all these critical responsibilities and within a suspicion society, in a system of reasonable suspicion, as we are, confirm not your tendency to correct the two right starting points of this bill, but your tendency to subject them to your control. It is certain that this is and you are using various methods, such as the fact that you have marginal conditions for participation in both the Greek and the regional networks. You are using as a threat to reducing the number of licences, but you are also using as a bait the excess of frequencies that is certain to arise from regional auctions and which is a bait for those who would like to have an effect at regional level too. Through it, therefore, the method of absolute control of the landscape, through this method of bait and threat, you want to dominate the television scenery, a television scene which has indeed been regulated for years. I would remind you very quickly that in 1998 it was considered legal stations and the Council of State, in its Decision 3578/2010/EC, said that the legality given in 1998 was lacking, because it did not take a reasonable time during this legality until final authorisations were issued. So, that's right, he's got to get in order. To get in order, not get in the boss's way. You're not a class player, you're a boss. And you take this role with a bill you bring here in the emergency procedure. For that very reason - and because you are not correcting it - we cannot help you, we cannot consent to this desire to check and manipulate the information. As to the charges that the briefing in the previous period of pending was controlled by the parties of the establishment - God will do it in Greece what we had, its scare! - It's completely wrong. Because - I inform you - one of the reasons why public opinion today is sympathetic to SYRIZA and all SYRIZA's idealisms and dogmas, about world conspiracy, about neoliberalism, about being someone else's fault for the fate of the country, is the behaviour of the media, that is, the establishment you are supposed to be afflicted, which has been bombing the Greek people for decades with tons of demagogicism and populism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The strange thing and the revenge of history is that this establishment, in recent months, in recent years, has been afraid of the attitude that created the same attitude to the Greek people and has decided to return, but too late. This establishment is abominable. But that's not a establishment. This is a mess, which must end. And once Greece must actually have a establishment, not as you mean it, but as all modern countries do. And this establishment is acquired by strengthening dignity, supremacy of excellence, helping it separate those who deserve it. And all that left-hand evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Tasula,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u190	...which is the swan song of postpopulation, not only does it not have it, but it fights them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Tasoula, until Greece has all this, your speech must be finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, other Members have to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u193	That is why we today, because we do not represent this establishment, do not accept the position of a chaotic situation in which a totalitarian situation can enter. We are giving you the totalitarian status of the information control, which has, in any case, helped you so far. What doesn't help you up to now is the reality, which you can't deal with no matter how much you check the update. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u194	President Evangelos Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, let us make it clear whether it is seven or eight minutes. We ask, because the previous speaker was seven minutes and now it was eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u196	So is the speech seven or eight minutes? There is, however, a distinction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u197	I forgot to put on, and I removed this time. There's no distinction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u198	There's a distinction here. Others have seven more and eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u199	There's no distinction. I assure you. There's no discrimination!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, you will also give me the time to discuss this report, because I am on both lists. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to see President Holland's visit yesterday and the day before yesterday to Greece, the climate of friendship, solidarity and optimism that was emitted, and I had to remember other situations with President Holland a few years ago. I remembered that in May 2012 Mr. Tsipras visited the French capital to stand up to Mr. Melanson of the European Left and to say the famous "Olandreou" for President Olad. And a few days later, I visited President Holland at the Helysian Palace to explain the situation in Greece - he was a fresh president at that time - and I beg him to ask him to help our country. Our country! Not my party or our government. And on February 19, 2013, I remembered that President Holland's previous visit to Athens took place, which we had the opportunity to welcome and discuss with him in depth, but Mr. Tsipras welcomed the gathering of a protest against the memorandum, including the visit of Olad. And, of course, President Holland did not want to meet SYRIZA's official opposition at that time, because he considered that it is insulting, counterproductive, that it does not help either European policy or the country's national prospect of rescuing and rescuing. I'm glad for the turn, and I think it's good for the place. But isn't there an element of political cynicism that shocks you when the conversion takes place so extremely, so claustrophey? It is precisely because this historically unprecedented and democratically unjustified conversion has become, because the orders given by the Greek people and the January elections and the July referendum have been betrayed, Mr. Tsipras and his Government are looking for a account. Now they're late memorials. Now it's, I'd say, zealous. They're not negotiating at all. They adopt and introduce the toughest versions of the measures they themselves made necessary, because if the country continued on the road that was in December 2014, we would like a little effort, and now we want a superhuman effort to regain the pace of December 2014. What's this new account? Is it the restoration of justice? Is the fight against opaqueness and interlocutory? Is the poor person seeking to help the poorer through a redistribution that eventually eliminates the middle and medium-sized strata at all levels? This policy is served by the paradox socialism of the elderly, especially the retired, who, when we get to the age of retirement, are we necessarily all under the veil of equilibrium, regardless of what someone did before in his life and what has contributed to the insurance system? So this shift, this great political deception, the absolute cynicism, really needs some exorcism first in order to maintain your own strength, ladies and gentlemen, so that you can vote for the measures which you have taken over the previous years, you have condemned as unpopular, as dangerous. And now, of course, you are obliged to vote and to 'lick', as I have repeatedly said, 'the place where you spat.' So you want some pretext. The media bill is part of these pretexts. Because here we must remember that anti-immemorial demagoguery, which happened in the last five and a half years in the country, the illusions, the lies, the undermining of the unity of the Greek people, the unity of the nation was not only based on the anti-immemorandum opposition, which found the wave of misery and the difficulty of the Greek people to change electoral size. It was also based on the media, the way in which the media handled our efforts. I have a very strong memory of how the communication system of the country faced my period at the Ministry of Finance and how it faced the period of Mr. Varoufakis, the man who harmed the country's course, which caused by the command or tolerance of Mr. Tsipras, a huge harm to the Greek people, to citizens, to businesses and to households. Measure the hours of viewing, the hours of television novelization and see the morning shows of the last six years. See the SYRIZA executives explain how the insurance system is being destroyed and compare these endless television hours to the morning shows with the SYRIZA executives and advisors, with the Syriza Committee of Sages of Mr Katrugal and the proposals that the government is now presenting. These are the interconnected and installed media in Greece! The historian of the future also recalls that the distribution of licences and the media landscape was formed in 1989 in Greece, with the decisive involvement of the then unified ASSOCIATION, which played a role because he controlled the Ministry of Home Affairs and Justice. Mr. Konstantopoulos and Mr. Kouvelis were decisive players in the allocation of licences at that time. And now this bill comes! The bill, like I said yesterday, appears to be something innovative and modern, as something radical and transparent? I have made many predictions from the Step, which unfortunately are verified. In a few months you will see what the situation will be in practice. The bill, therefore, which today with the majority of SYRIZA and ANLL will become the law of the state, is a solid tool of opacity and transparency whether it is implemented or not. First version: Not applicable or delayed to apply. The existing stations are still operating under blackmail. There is not even a National Broadcasting Council with legal form. Second version: Applicable speed. The existing stations lose their legitimate power, their license, and they cease to operate. This means bankruptcy of the public limited companies, with consequences not for the shareholders - which can be expressed in other company shapes - either directly or through other persons - it means a lot to the workers who will be made redundant, waiting for a compensation that will not come. It means a lot to the insurance funds that will lose what they have to take. It means a lot to the State, which will not receive tax revenue. It means a lot to the banks belonging to the public-sector portfolio and to the bank lending in the media. Let us say that new permits will also be granted. New permits to whom? I said the other day: why are the provisions on merger bans and the provisions on the 'basic shareholder', but are the provisions on denomination being changed? Because as Article 4 and Article 5 is concerned, there is no denomination at all. Silence the government. It does not accept my proposal - regardless of whether the company is a foreign or national company, a Community or a non-Community company, regardless of the obligation to denomination - that an international auditing company should be instructed to carry out audits and say by means of a report who is the true businessman, the beneficiary, and where the financial instruments of the company were acquired. Accept it. You will once, historically, if you do not accept it in the year 2015. And, of course, how many licenses in a digital environment. There's no frequency rare. Let anyone who fulfils the conditions of the law and not just businessmen express themselves. Let social actors express themselves. Let the Church express itself. See what you're going to do with the regional stations. Don't drown them. See the amendment tabled by your party for municipal stations on the occasion of the municipal TV in Thessaloniki. There must be pluralism, which is not just business. Reply, ‘yes, the price per licence category is fixed’. Will the invitation be made separately per licence, whenever a licence is empty, or is it always for all licences? The difference is enormous, because the price depends on the overall landscape and the total number of licences, which - I repeat - must be the maximum possible according to digital capabilities, otherwise the right to access information and pluralism is violated. And, of course, what does it matter to offer the auction an unreasonable business and financial price? Why would he do that? He needs an explanation. One must explain when he provides paradoxically a great price. Because he's not investing financially, but something else he's doing, that's not economic, it's political. And it's weird? Is it dark? So the excessive price is not a success of the state because it took some money. It is a failure of the rule of law and transparency. And unify supervision, because the Constitution makes the National Broadcasting Council a competent body directly. Do not insult the National Telecommunications and Post Committee as a body provided for in European Community legislation. Please clarify the relationship between the Competition Committee and the National Television Council in the field of concentration. And you say, where are you the opponents of the interlocutory, why are you satisfied with the 2002, 2005 regulations for the main shareholder? Is everything okay? That is enough, that is, all we have done. You must confess to the adequacy of the regulations, as they have been interpreted by the case-law of the Council of State and the Court of Justice of the European Union. Are guarantees and arrangements sufficient? You respect them and keep them. Then what do you keep saying that something has happened and needs further intervention? You're not doing any further intervention. So you accept that the institutional framework is sufficient.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u202	And one final comment on communication diplomacy. Listen, I spent 1993-1995 with the Minister of the Press and imposed an absolute harmonisation of the offices of the foreign press offices with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and diplomatic missions. I have also experienced these issues from all the critical positions and as Foreign Minister. It is a huge mistake nowadays to create two-headed principles abroad. The country is singled out by the ambassador and the embassy or by the head of the permanent delegation and all others are subject to a single foreign policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, what about time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u204	This was ultimately the case with the economic and commercial followers, who a time and the previous government had to flirt with the Ministry of Development, but I brought them back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And now the foreign press offices, which are valuable instruments of the country and of foreign policy, must be fully integrated into the policy that the Ministry is shaping.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u205	Put a perfect one, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u208	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u209	I just want to say two things. I think one criticism has just been repeated, that our government wants to continue with a status quo with the channels. It's an argument I'm forced to quote again, Mr. Venizelo. And you are aware of them and know what their behaviour is against us, despite everything you claimed a moment ago from the Step of the House. I repeat, the government has nothing to do with this process. The EPP may reject a dossier, accept a dossier, be obliged to carry out the tender and give the licences. The auction - because you said and implied a opacity regime and asked questions about possible higher prices in relation to market opportunities - is precisely the method of revealing themselves, invoiced by the interested parties, who are supposedly sensing the market, how much the licence can be invoiced, what the price can be obtained with a minimum starting price. So that is precisely this procedure, despite all your disagreements with many aspects of the bill - as we have heard them - I would also call on you and the Democratic Compact to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u210	Minister, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u211	No, Mr. Loverdos, you won't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Loverdo, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u213	As regards pensions, because you mentioned them, I am also in favour of the pensions bill being cut at around 15 billion a year in previous programmes. This is the first time that this thing has been trying to stop happening. I would like to remind the Greek people that when the debate was about the immediate abolition of the CSCE, some were invited to accept it immediately. So, I would say, the criticism of our own party and this government must be more modest. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] In relation to President Olad's visit, it is clear that there are very serious processes in European social democracy. I would personally like you to be able to follow them. The European Social Democracy seems to some extent to have seen that the choices of the great coalition and the neoliberal consensus of the past twenty years have led it to a dead end. And you will know, because you are in this political family - I am sure you will have heard it many more times than we have - that PASOK in Greece is the example. The Social Democrats are talking about how they will avoid having what happened to the once-for-all PASOK party. A source of these processes is precisely what is currently being discussed in Portugal, that is, the convergence work between the Socialist Party of Portugal, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. You'd like to be able to follow them. You must have made other choices! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u214	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u215	You have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u216	Why? Is there any reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u217	That's the rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u218	I want the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u219	Madam President, I would like to speak on a point of order. It cannot go on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u220	I am starting with European social democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u221	Will only the Ministers and Parliamentary Representatives speak in this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u222	Madam President, it took 13 minutes from seven. Please! We want to talk, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u223	That's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u224	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u225	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u226	Calm down! Madam President, I begin with Mr Pappa's last remark.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u227	We want the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u228	Let him speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u229	That's how much my word bothers you? That much?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u230	No, but we want to talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u231	That much? I'm glad it bothers you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u232	What are you? House barons?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u233	Instead of reacting, think about what you have heard. Madam President, I begin with Mr Pappa's last remark. Now they are fans of European social democracy. Who? Mr Tsipras, who led the European Communist Left to the European elections. They are now waiting for the European social democracy to support. But we fought to convince the European Socialist Party and its parliamentary Group in the European Parliament to help and help. But don't be delusional. Forces in Europe are intergovernmental, intergovernmental, and they are a correlation of international national interests. Mr. Holland, of course, is affected by his socialist identity. He is, however, the President of the French Republic. He does what serves French interests, the correlation on the Franco-German axis. And he told you yesterday here: 'Keep the agreeds!'. ‘Follow the agreed!’. He praised you for changing a hundred and eighty degrees of line. And on the notorious debt issue he said to you: "We will consider debt service." He didn't even talk about restructuring. Unfortunately, I'll say! ‘Le service de la dette’. He didn't talk about haircuts, reprofiling, restructuring. And to get us to the point right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Venizelos, we can't get to the point right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u235	Do you accept that the auditing of who is the real businessman is and where did he get the money? Put it in the law. If you put that in law, I'll vote for the auctions. As long as you tell me that auctions will become uniform for each category of licences - one single, at the same time - so that everyone knows how many licences are. At least make a commitment to regional municipal and social resources. Make moves that ensure basic guarantees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u237	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u238	No need, Mr Balaura. What personal? There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u239	There's personalities and give me the floor to develop it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u240	There's no staff. I'm here. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u241	I want to develop why I ask for the floor on staff. I'm offended by your behavior and Mr. Venizelos' behavior.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u242	The Bureau did not see any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u243	There are no barons here, there are no wheels, there are no people who...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u244	Is there any staff? Say it and I'll answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Venizelos, like you guys are taking advantage, I want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u246	Say it and I'll answer for a personal answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u247	You answer for a personal answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Balaura, please! Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u249	It's not like that! Don't mess this House, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u250	Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u251	Madam President, I asked for the floor. It's not about Mr. Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u252	Now the speaker, Mr Triantafylides, has come up in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u253	I am appealing to the Bureau. Converts the House to a House of Clients and Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Triantafylides, the speaker has gone up in Step and counts his time. Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, following the interesting speech by Mr Evangelos Venizelos, there are two issues on which, perhaps, his party should, of course, not personally, give some further explanations. The first is that in Greece, quite well or badly, the last twenty-five or thirty years have created this carcinoma, which has made many metastases in the political system, which refers to what is called "private television licensing". There is therefore a political issue here of self-criticism, in which context, in which terms and for what reasons this whole rather than nature has happened. The second is this: I hear him constantly talking about options, the consensus of the then left in the framework of the Jandetaki Government, and later on on the licensing of the channels. Here we have to make it clear that that time and the persons to whom it relates do not give any alibis to the conflict that was later created. To take things from the beginning, to say what is the essential issue. The essential issue we are discussing here today is the auctioning of licences, is the core, it is the original, foundation of any political regulation that should take place in this area. In 1989, under the Government of Jandetaki, with only one article, the fourth of Law 1886/1989, the possibility of creating non-State television is given - be careful! - to those who had experience and tradition in the media. It was a photographic device, which had its implications later. It is the law that was characterised as unconstitutional by the later President of the Republic, Kostis Stefanopoulos. It is the beginning of the Greek reality of private television in the country, which starts without legal status and without any regulatory framework in terms of state. And why should there be a regulatory framework? Because this is the essence of the bill we are discussing, because the frequencies - either in their analogue or in their current digital form - are a public asset, it is a public place where the state must have a regulatory framework. Shortly afterward, the Zolota government attempts to introduce this necessary regulatory tool, namely the law of licensing. However, it is true that the Council of the three political leaders, which operated, informally, but essentially as the mechanism for adopting legislative initiatives, suspends the adoption of the law, on the grounds that it would be better if the legislative initiative were given not to that transitional government, but to the one that would result from the 1990 elections, which would never happen. In the meantime, a regime is slowly being created but stablely within the media, but mainly within the country's social and economic reality. There is no world precedent for decades that all broadcasters in the country have been operating in this semi-unlawed manner without permission or with temporary permits, the validity of which has either expired or has been unlawfully extended. This situation has become a state of affairs. These companies have become established, gained goodwill, integrated into a solid framework of economic interests and later some people come in and talk about free competition in an area that is the definition of non-competition. They have been radically transformed. It was no longer informative or cultural platforms. They were mechanisms and pressure groups to serve strategic economic choices. Since these enterprises and the regulatory framework introduced by Mr Venizelos did not only overturn it, but strengthened it, they acted as if these activities were the result of a horizontal carteling of the Greek economy. Basically, they ceased to live from the product of their work and this dimension was gigantic in the 1990s and the early 2000s. In fact, in Greece it worked through private television, but also because of its connection with the other media, a special mint of political money. In this mint, many factors of political life, but also parts of parties, and so on, entered. And the agreement was simple, such as all the simple agreements created on the market: the media operated in a peculiar and distinct economic and tax immunity regime but also in a clear triangular trade regime and exchanged this immunity with the political support they gave. Many of the parties and all the parties know that. I wonder, for example, how many of the New Democracy Members today remember the aggressive attitude taken by the media in the years 2000 and later towards the New Democracy Party and its political leadership, precisely why he then raised a question of the quality of democracy. And it would be very interesting to know once how the ex-institutional centres worked to cancel the legislation of the main shareholder in 2005-2007. If something would be interesting, it is to discuss, not the essential guarantees of the Constitution, which Mr Venizelos invoked for transparency and public control, but precisely the opposite. To circumvent the Constitution, in order to impose the current rules of immunity and corruption and restore public dialogue on its correct basis, describing how we have reached this point. From the so-called shipwreck of the main shareholder, the DIGEA scandal to the ERT black. This time is described in the Greek median reality, unfortunately, the bowing of part of the Greek polar system to the interests of an ex-institutional interest group, and that is the reality that we know in Greece from an end. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'll be done in a minute. I am not going to talk about much, I will simply say that the major issue today is to re-establish what is an obligation of the Constitution, which results from the Constitution and which is the duty of each government, to auction the licences, to re-establish the basis for a proper functioning of the media and only through this process will we guarantee free and fair competition and transparency and jobs. Because let us not forget what has happened all these years. No such regime, such as what it has operated, has defended the positions of workers in the media. No such regime has defended the interests of the public. You remember three to four years ago a large national channel, which closes and leaves all its obligations to the state insurers and three hundred people on the street. You remember very well and we know very well that this daily life of black work in the media is a daily life. It is therefore the government's duty, in honor of the popular mandate and in view of the obligations arising therefrom, to put an end to the conflict, to ensure the public good of information and its pluralist character and to restore democracy. And this bill is another confirmation of the intentions we have in this section in the right direction. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! If you disagree with the details of the bill, at least vote on the start of this process, this lifting of the historical pending status of private television stations in Greece and the occupation of public spaces and public frequencies by people who have earned many good value by selling these licences in the years to come. Beat the political money where it is actually produced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u256	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u257	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u258	I have the right to react by giving me two minutes to every Minister's speech. But I do not want to react to the Minister's speech. I would like to ask you, because it is insulted by the majority Members who are registered for today, an unpleasant fact that they are not given the floor, I would like to say to you that the Minister has now said something that this four-day thing has been said ten times. But he came and said it again. In fact, he invited us as a party to respond. But in this way, ladies and gentlemen, we are not to blame. When he starts his speech and says 'I am not talking about Mr Venizelos, I am talking about PASOK and I ask him to say...' we should say. If this thing goes up to night, you won't talk. That is why I ask you, Madam President, to make a deal, a co-operation with the government of which ministers will speak. We had said the Parliamentary Representatives, the respondents, at the initiative of the SYRIZA representative, to speak at 13.00 p.m. That's what's going on. Let's say whatever you say. Do you want 15:00? 3:00 p.m. Do you want 17:00? 17:00 p.m. I should like my colleagues to know when they will speak. Do not speak to us in a pitiful and derogatory way, when we are not to blame, and understand how the Rules of Procedure, which some first understand, meet him. Do us this favor and we'll adjust.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u259	All right, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Famelos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u260	Now they're not yelling, my colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Loverdos, you know the problem was created because Mr. Venizelos exceeded 60% the year of his speech. Someone's not respecting this House's timetable, Mr. Loverdo. On the contrary, you asked us to do this before 14.00 p.m. We're off, Mr. Loverdo. [[Noise in the Chamber]] First of all, Mrs Voutesis, because Mr Mitsotakis began his speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u262	After the Minister had to precede a Member...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u263	Please, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u264	Besides, the Minister didn't say anything. So the Minister has taken the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Mitsotakis started with his wishes this morning and he's... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Okay, I can't help it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u266	He didn't add anything to our life!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u267	All right, you're all alive today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Mitsotakis started this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u269	So I had to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u270	Please, Mrs. Vulture, you want to have my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u271	Mrs. Vulture, let it go. Time's running.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u272	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u273	So let me say, Mrs Vulture, that I would like you to offer Mr Mitsotakis my thanks for his wishes for the little accident we had yesterday. We will not need Mr Kammenos because he has important work in Parliament and in the government. Besides, a little crack on the right doesn't matter. We do left policy, we don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u274	That's what Kammenos taught you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is not a pretext. The pretext is the way that many colleagues in the opposition and former party leaders are trying to avoid discussing the substance. The debate which is taking place today is an element of the democratic reconstruction of our country and is not the only measure, the only intervention in the field of television channels and frequencies. The issue of the introduction and payment, payment of advertising tax, the issue of the certification and payment of fees for the use of frequencies, the control of channels by labour inspections and tax control, and the procedure of authorisation currently imported are specific interventions and evidence that this government is consistent with its first basic constitutional obligation under Article 15 of the Constitution. This also proves that, for the past twenty-five years, the Constitution for the control of channels was not applied. And no one's apologized to the editorial legislator. I think, in reply to a rhetoric question put by my colleague, Mr Tasoulus, that democracy is urgent to discuss something we have not discussed for twenty-five years. The Constitution is urgent. And the basic coherence towards democracy is pressured on us, and it obliges us to discuss all these issues today. Because no one can ignore the Constitution. No one, too, can ignore democracy and cannot ignore legislation. Here, let me say, because issues have been raised on the subject of the General Secretariat of Public Incomes, that one of the issues that I mentioned at the outset at the outset was that the payment of taxes on television advertising and the channels was confirmed with this government. However, is a public servant in this time of crisis, in this period of poverty in our society, not to apply or underestimate or to violate or delay legislation and to delay public revenues from a particular sector of society and the economy to the detriment of all the others? I think no one's above the law. Transparency, equality and legitimacy are essential elements of the policy that the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks have put as a front for this period. A lot of things have changed in our country's policy over the last period. They changed things that the last governments could not change. It is false what was mentioned by this Step a little while ago, that we had a little effort in 2014 to make it. Why is the question raised to the ordinary citizen: why didn't you put that little effort? Why didn't you try to save Greece? Isn't Greece worth a little effort? Aren't Greek citizens worth a little effort? But what attempt would it be? The attempt to legitimize team redundancies? Trying to sell the public property? The effort to sell PPC? Trying to undo all pension and insurance rights? This little effort you wanted to put at the end of 2014? It is obvious that moral and political stature did not exist in the previous government to make this little effort. The people gave SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Green Economists the great effort they need to make to win all the gains that they won in the first semester negotiations and were guaranteed in July and August and continue to be guaranteed. Because what we have never undone is that negotiation continues and the current safeguarding of democratic rights, with regard to the Constitution and the control of television frequencies, is the effort that is going on in our country. And we won't stop trying. Because MPs are not elected to sit in nice offices and be with rich cars, in nice meals, in nice suits. They are elected to try to change the country and help citizens. And this basic right and our obligation will not be rebutted. However, I think that what we need to make clear is that ensuring access to what we call "ground digital broadcasting" is a public asset not only because the Constitution says it, but because it opens two major roads, two major doors to the new democracy, the democracy that our country needs: pluralism and pluralism, which perhaps define in today's society what is objective information. We understand that there is a serious problem in defining objective information. But in pluralism and pluralism, who's been closing the door all these years? Who excluded the Greek citizen from what is the right to choose? The anarchy of twenty-five years in terms of television frequencies. Obviously the lifting of the 'DIGEA' monopoly is quite clear and is a step forward in progress and - if you want - an adjustment to the path of pluralism and the path of pluralism. The opposition raised too many objections to the procedure in committees and to the constitutionality of plenary. But were these objections real? Do these objections hide the responsibility of counter-population for the past of television broadcasts and interacting with canalarchs? Does he at the same time hide the absence of another proposal? Because we are still waiting for it to be clear, in particular, the Qualifications, whether there is a need today for competitions to be carried out and authorizations to be made transparently for television channels, as the Constitution requires. At the same time, are some people trying to hide their internal conflicts and the lack of a programme or personal barbarians' quarrels behind the fuss about the issue of a truly democratic bill that we are tabling? Who is currently serving the adoption of the Co-decision proposals? If we agreed there was an issue of unconstitutionality, what would happen? Quite simply, the television scene would be unreserved and lawless. Does anyone want that? In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that the policy must not take the footprints of the canalarchs who have the logic of'say, say, something will remain'. Because we came to hear from the Step of the House that SYRIZA was the favorite canal child and that SYRIZA came out of the canals to the government. What channels? The channels of terrorism for the referendum? The channels of terrorism for the 'left parenthesis'? The channels of terrorism for bankruptcy helped SYRIZA? I think the nerve has some limits. It is a shame that it is political to charge to the Government of '89 all the things that were fifteen, twenty years in which you were unable to resolve from a position of central minister and vice-president. Because you either did not have the political power to resolve them and had to say it to Parliament or simply agree with the lawlessness that existed up to now in the channels. And that is what I think we also need to make it clear in the Greek Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, since we need to close down and say things, I would like to say that the legalisation of the government and the elections have given the Minister the right to keep two decisions on government policy: obviously the determination of the price, because it is directly linked to the budget, and obviously the number, but it is not finite. Ladies and gentlemen, false information from the Step of the House is disseminated. It's not a process. Evidently the process can be repeated in circles, depending on the proposals of the social spaces and on the suggestions of reasoning and on the regional organization of the country, but also on the need to represent groups. In this direction of the social groups, I think we should also ask as a Parliamentary Group to make it clear that we have some proposals that need to be adapted to the legislative process and that the Minister sees them at the best possible glance. Firstly, we have discussed and agreed that the National Broadcasting Council - and it has said so - has an incomplete composition - said it and Mr Venizelos - is not doing his job. At the moment, he can't help and is in a state of inertia and incomplete staffing. I think there should be an agreement policy to instruct the maximum majority of the House's Transparency Committee to appoint a new Broadcasting Council in full composition, because the television scene is required to exist as an independent authority that will make the competitions for the channels, which will monitor the documentation of the competitions. The Minister won't do that. The independent authority will do it. Secondly, we need to identify the operating environment of regional channels. The decentralisation of the country and the functioning of the local voice and the expression of local production is an element of democracy. In order to do this, Minister, we think that we need authorisation for the technical characteristics of the regional channels to be linked to the spatial, geographical characteristics, population density, Gross National Product and the technical support of the channels. It is not Thessaly and Central Greece itself with island Greece, mountainous Greece and the border region. There must be an adjustment to have regional voices. Thirdly, the self-government channels. We know that the area of self-government is controlled by both the Code of Municipalities and Communities and by the 'KALICRATES' Act. 3852/2010. At the same time, it is financed by the public budget and is the broad concept of public space. We think that for existing municipal channels there should be an exception to the process of today's draft law that we are discussing, but not protecting, but respecting specific ethical rules, equipment, personnel, not downgrading quality, but portraying the local reality of self-government that we think is a feeder for our lives and for development. Fourth question: With regard to labour, we clearly agree that there should be protection and definition of employment rules either today or in a subsequent legislative act. The scenery is not an anarchy. I think I fully disagree with Mr Mitsotakis' reasoning that he said 'why we do not leave the market in the canal sector free'. The channels aren't buying. Article 15 of the Constitution clearly stipulates that state control is needed because they manage the public good of frequencies. Here, therefore, we also need protection, both in terms of professions and journalism and correspondents in national information channels. There must be a regional response. It's not just Athens. We also need to look at the technical issue, whether today or at another stage, if you want. Obviously we also need to see the issue of the insurance and tax information of channels on an annual basis. It is clear that insurance rights, black work, but also tax obligations must be fulfilled. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, I think we have been able to find ourselves in these five days, through a rich dialogue, a path towards the development and defence of democracy, a road that drives us away from the ERT black. I believe that, in such a process of synthesis, there will also be possibilities for the other parties to have a result for the progress of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u277	Madam President, however, only three Members have spoken since the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u278	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u279	You don't sound. What do you want? To keep time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u280	I've been trying since the morning, I've had a card from the day before, to find out what time I'm going to talk, because you know, because of the process we have, we have a heavy schedule. I asked the Seed to tell me when I was going to talk about and they said that in ten minutes I'm talking. Now I come here and you tell me that the parliamentarians are also coming in. Excuse me, would you like to make the House a decorative instrument, not talk at all? But what do you have to do? Don't talk to the MPs on a card. Let's get this straight. I beg your pardon, Madam President, but you have a responsibility as Bureau. The SYRIZA colleagues are right. He cannot speak, Minister, no MEP. I'm not just saying it for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u281	You're right, Mr. Georgiadis. After the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman started, the rest follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u282	Before Mr Loverdos told you to start the parliamentary cycle and one and two hours later. This proposal was made by Mr Loverdes to the Chair and you did not even discuss it, Madam President. You didn't even talk about her! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u283	How? I talked about it, but I didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u284	Who did you talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u285	There are also procedural issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u286	Can you tell us about when? I, the second speaker, can you tell me when I'm going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u287	I can't tell you. If all the Parliamentary Representatives ask for the floor, how can I identify the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u288	You can all limit yourself to the time you propose. That's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u289	That's what you're right about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u290	Everyone speaks 50% and 100% more. Limiting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u291	You're right. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u292	Madam President, because you have given me time, I agree with you, and if you want me to come down from the Step, I will go down, as long as the government tells us by whom ministers it will express itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u293	Madam President, I am sorry, from Thursday to noon, I expect to speak and it is Saturday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u294	My colleagues are being pushed forward and they are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u295	From Thursday at one noon, I expect to speak. I put my card on. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u296	Everyone put the card on. There was an attempt to restrain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u297	Three Members spoke only. Three MPs in four hours of meeting!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u298	I know. I can see that, Mr. Georgioda. What can we do? That's what the Rules of Procedure say. Anyone who wants to speak. What can we do? Well, let's go now, so we can get some time. Come on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u299	Let me begin by something the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Famelos, said, if I understood it correctly. He proposed to the Government or Parliament - I do not know how you said that, because I do not remember exactly your words - in relation to the National Broadcasting Council to become a new beginning. And that means, if I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u300	Because Mr. Venizelos said it's not working and it's already inertial.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u301	We all say that. We all say that there is a problem and what we have to do is solve the problem. The solution to the problem, however, is not to intervene in a way prohibited by its Rules of Procedure to abolish existing members to a constitutional authority for the remainder of their term of office. It's to complete the National Council. And that's what he has to do. I don't know exactly what the proposal was...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u302	Their term of office is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u303	It's not all over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u304	For whoever has expired his term of office, he should definitely be completed. For some time now, I have said so yesterday that it was the Minister of State's confrontation with the former President of Parliament. We are in favour of the membership to be completed. If it is for supplementation or if everyone's terms have expired, let us move on to what is right, but not imagine that a law can be passed here that interrupts the term of office for the rest of the members of this National Broadcasting Council. It is inconsistent with Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. Read it. You know that. That's forbidden. Only the Conference of Presidents can deal with such a matter. To be clean. Secondly, the Minister of State has made many appeals to vote on the tenders. He has said: 'Move against everything, as long as you vote on Rule 13'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u305	I said 'at least'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u306	At least. That's right. To vote on Article 13. I told him in my speech the other day - it was a time when he was gone and I told Mr Spirtzi to take it to you - that, as we read Article 13 in conjunction with corresponding regulations, we understand that the auctions will take place for each licence alone. Solve it, because as it is arranged, he understands that there will be auctions for the frequencies, the number of which you will have set - and it is our disagreement with Article 2 - and then for each licence we will have a single auction. We will conclude - we cannot do that - one permit to do 7 million - now one example - and the other 15 million. I told you in my first speech yesterday that it is right from a governmental point of view to determine the amount of money you want to take from this point of view and to determine the price of each licence, since, of course, you yourself will have determined their number. Otherwise, we're going to an inequality situation that's problematic. You need to make that clear. You need to do so before the votes that will take place at night. A lot is said here and repeated and we too feel the need to place ourselves once and twice and three times. You're sad. I get it. But you see that many ministers, many of your own Members - of the majority, I mean - raise these issues that need answers. You're talking about biasing against you on the media of electronics, television stations, and so on. The experience of five years - and some journalists you know very well - shows that 80% or 90% of cases were 'find an agreement', 'risk not of finding the deal, of breaking the deal, of finding the country in chaos', and after the agreement, 'I say, what a bad agreement that was!'. This is the media stop: "Do what the country needs" and then: "Whoa, what a bad thing you did for the country!" That's what you guys are pulling now. And you'll pull it down. There's nothing you can do. Nor could we do anything, because the media attitude is sensible to always be in line with the attitude of the majority of citizens. The majority of citizens do not want chaos or burdens. This bitter glass will drink up to the last drop. Let me remind you once again, ladies and gentlemen, that most of you have made a career through the media and you are here. And that's because you've been saying for five years how many traitors, bad ones, are the others, the rulers, the individual ones. That's what you did. All your "stars" were the daily guests of TV mornings. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u307	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Varoufakis, Mr. Katrugalos and many others, who broke their garments for anti-constitutionalisms, for illegality, for other magical solutions that proved to exist. Don't complain. To understand that the government has the facts against it. And these events play a role, not the critical statement about them. We have said that we are in agreement that a solution needs to be found, but not every solution proposed, especially when it is not and is not using old-fashioned instruments and giving rise to suspicions about the intentions of the one who promotes it. We have, as Mr Papatheodorou said the other day, alive the loose ends for our final position, which is the only thing that government intervention can solve by amending the arrangements that he has made. Until the meeting ends, this dialogue on our side will be alive. But you do not serve him so far with changes. I said, Mr Minister of State, that the change from an PSE 'an opinion' about the number of permits to you in a'reasoned opinion' is not a change. All opinions submitted by the independent authorities and the administrative bodies must be substantiated, otherwise illegal. Your commitment and assent would solve the problem and make the independent authority truly independent. Now your regulation is problematic and there will be consequences when it is implemented. Because, Minister, you have not given us time. I said in my previous speech that it takes at least a year and a half to implement this draft law, even if the loose ends with the National Broadcasting Council progress quickly. All this time, you will have the room pending, and this attitude gives rise to suspicions. I said more, which makes no sense to repeat or have time. However, I think that in relation to what we have to do until night, what I said is the most important. I want to say a lot about Mr Philly's amendment. I feel that the Bureau, at least for this amendment, will give a separate time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u309	Mr Loverdos, there is no provision for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u310	It's an amendment. It's gonna be a special round. We asked him to tell us. From the numbers he gave, my colleague, the number he says doesn't come out. From the money he puts here, the number of twenty thousand substitutes doesn't come out. These calculations will be made here before the House, so that we know what we are voting on later. In any case, I would like to end by saying this: I do not know, Mr SYRIZA's parliamentary representative, if you intend to bring regulation and if that is what you said because you have something like that in the scaffolding, but you have to take a very close look at this issue. It will open up, ladies and gentlemen, self-interested dialogue and intense debate on an individual topic - keep it in mind - if it is to have such a regulation here on the National Broadcasting Council. We have set three conditions. One condition was respect for the full independence of the independent authorities. Mr. Spirtz has been adapted and we will vote for his articles. Secondly, we have said that the legislative initiative should be adapted to the comments of the National Broadcasting Council. It hasn't been adjusted. We won't play a multitude game of pretext here, tell you in all the remarks, but at least two, three basics. There's no such adjustment. We're still waiting. Thirdly, we have raised a number of issues for adapting to technological developments, and this is particularly related to the number of licences. We wait and wait until the last minute of this process for the ministerial reason, not on a past criticism and on arguments that concern decades ago, but on the ground, to clarify our final attitude. As things stand, we have to be across the street. However, we are still waiting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u311	Thank you. Before giving the floor to any parliamentary representative who wants to speak, a Member will be present. Mrs Vagonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, the time has already gone for only two minutes. It's been about four hours, and I'm the fourth MP to climb the Step. You understand what that means. I have the impression that we are not fighting with each other, apart from the others, that there is a question of changing the Rules of Procedure of the House, which the Bureau should see. In order not to waste time, our pursuit to put order in the anarchist landscape of frequencies, since they are good, we knew from the outset that it would meet many and powerful obstacles. We also knew that it would cause the anger of an extremely powerful system, which for decades has literally defied in the field of frequencies with zero control and without any limits. However, at no time did the government lose sight of the objective, at no time did it show signs of re-electionism, revenge, even after its re-election, even though the overwhelming majority of SMEs were engaged in an unprecedented warfare towards it, both during the referendum and during the recent election period. On the contrary, we are seeking open dialogue and are presenting ourselves with a broad consensus. Attention, though! Not to stir the deck, but in the direction of a realistic approach to the issue of frequency management, as is also required by the large social majority of us, in order to ensure the regulatory conditions necessary for the frequency area to function for the first time in our country in a transparent, efficient and efficient way. And if we were to expect, more or less, the orchestrated reaction of the system to strengthen it by the parties of the old two-partyism, what we did not expect was the reaction of other forces presented as guardians of the battle against interlocutory. Because criticism is legitimate, it is legitimate that anyone who can express for the quality and quantity of licensed channels on the next day is legitimate not to revert to the same or similar players as the previous ones. However, from supposedly fearing the new conflict of channels to the point of defending the old, there is a huge difference. This rhetoric is extremely suited to the old mediators, who have until now remained intact and completely dominated by possessing, with the blessings of former government Samaras - Venizelos, and public frequencies and the monopoly of distribution and the content of the digital signal, but also the institutional capacity to overcome any obstacles. And all this through the "DIGEA", which managed to completely control the country's television scenery. Can we talk about the so-called frequency auction, in which it was not actually possible to participate, because of the photographic specifications, at the same time as the facility, if only one of the participants, does the competition not have to be cancelled? Such a term has never been in public competitions. Should we talk about the price? It was 18.3m euros for a 15-year operation. Compare with the corresponding auction for the same frequency range, which was granted against EUR 309 million to the three mobile companies for a similar period of time and draw your conclusions. Should we talk about population coverage, when a few months ago the 'DIGEA' was adopted by a joint ministerial decision which reduced the compulsory population coverage from 98% to 95%? Most importantly, this 95% leaves a 5% non-labelled 5%, which is translated into a much larger percentage, as it concerns difficult and remote regions. I give you an example. In the northern Aegean the coverage reaches about 83% of the population, which means that one out of five does not watch television. You tell me, this can be solved. Of course. And that is why the 'DIGEA' had taken care of, since the costs of covering the rest of the 5% left unmarked, under the agreement, are transferred to the Ottawa, i.e. moving to the public. However, the ERT's 'black' has a direct bearing on the ability of DIGEA to play itself, since in this landscape it would be impossible to have another competitive platform. The creation of the ERT digital platform will be able to cover those areas that have been forgotten by DIGEA and I think it is our patriotic duty to do so. At the same time, it will be the alternative to the regional TV stations that are caught in the expensive private monopoly 'DIGEA'. Before I close, I would like to make three comments. Firstly, something has also been said in the committee debate. Care should be taken to ensure that applicants for local authorisation are checked for the participation in other local tenders at the same time. An audit should also be carried out to have a partnership of participation with other schemes requesting corresponding permits for other regions. Secondly, I have the opinion that OTA stations should not and cannot be treated with the same political, institutional and legal framework as others. On the other hand, special treatment should be given to suitably shaped in order to be able to function effectively. Third point. I believe that cooperative schemes with incentives and facilities should be encouraged so that they can play the media too. Ladies and gentlemen, everything I have described previously did not happen in the period of post-government 'part'. All this was done in the Memorandum of Greece and some even today are talking about movements of impression. So where is the aggressive rhetoric aimed at against the bill? In not laying down strict criteria, restrictions, specifications, testing on the origin of SMEs' capital, the number of their employees, the number and the cost of licences? Why not get healthy businesses in line with the strengths and potentials of the Greek economy at last? If some wish to give the kiss of life to this system, which only a small part of its activities have been able to describe, they will find us opposite and determined to move forward and each one assumes his responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mrs Vayonakis, for keeping time. Mr Dannelis has the floor and Mr Barbarousis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a comment in the context of the culture and people's understanding of the Prime Minister. In the courtyards of kings, among the idiots and enemies on the face of friends, the figure of the mad king, the one who chose to tell thousands of truths, provoke, reveal and ultimately protect the king from the mistakes he has often made, following the voice or the word of the collars. That's why the lunatic was always the king's favorite, and if that love were hidden behind the insanity of madness. But when crazy becomes the king's ass, when thousands of real madmen, who are not other than the artists who in Greece today continue to do art, are isolated, when power adopts a supposedly flattered art, then we can say with certainty that "there is something rotten in the kingdom of Denmark". Mr. Ministers, you insist on a wrong model. You are condemning, in this bill, the absolute sovereignty of the broadcasting scenery and you are trying to convince us that this very absolute personal sovereignty is the one that will put an end to the complexion. Unfortunately, we cannot follow you in that logic. We believe that only strong institutions can stand against complexity and corruption. Today, at last, after twenty-six years the political system is even trying to break this so widespread belief in society in the complexion between civilian staff and those who control media. This is a step that society has been demanding for years. It is precisely this requirement that we should respond with courage and honesty. That is why you will find us firmly against you in an attempt to set up a new type of complex that will be guided clearly by the Minister of State. We said yesterday that we did not question the good intentions of this Minister. But tomorrow, Mr Papapas can be Mr Papadopoulos and so on. Who ensures us for its good, good intentions? If we had the parliamentary power imposed by the Rules of Procedure, we would ask for a roll-call vote on Rule 2, because we believe that the opinion of each Member should be recorded separately. We welcome Mr Famelou's proposal, on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and we agree. We have been doing so since the first moment, since the previous term of office, when we talked about the ERT bill. We believe that the basis and prerequisite for the resolution of the media site is the substantial reconstruction of the National Television Council. Mr President, whatever we decide today - good or bad, we agree or do not agree - it will be dead, it will be in the air, to the limits of constitutionality for whatever act it follows if the National Broadcasting Council has not restored its legitimacy. So we think that the primary issue is to ensure that there is a guarantee that both the National Broadcasting Council and the EBRD will acquire those powers and the prestige, ladies and gentlemen, that they are unfortunately deprived of - which will enable them to take order in the irresponsible broadcasting landscape. However, there are other signs of friction: a legacy motif that is constantly repeated now cannot be ignored, ladies and gentlemen. The bill you brought presents all the weaknesses and the tradition of the bad legislature that characterizes you from the first bill you brought to Parliament last March. Every bill you bring to this House is not allowed to have a proper consultation, to be discussed under procedures - expressly, when there is time and, of course, to contain unnecessarily and emblematically - provisions which have nothing to do with its title and content. In this case, we have a second bill hidden in the main bill. These are Articles 22 to 43, concerning the strategic planning and organisation of national communication policy. Questions are being raised about the real intentions of the government to put under control - again at random! - the Minister of State, Communication diplomacy, internal political information, regulation and supervision of the media and where State advertising will be directed. Legislation by concentrating powers, rather than really solving problems. You have been missed, for example, by the drafting of a regulation on the dangerous public health of antenna parks and another on the licensing of radio stations, that is to say, two issues directly related to the bill. But you have completely accidentally incorporated, with Article 21, an entirely unrelated regulation for automobile service stations. In fact, we cannot understand the logic with which Mr Spirtz makes this arrangement. Clearly it endangers the life and safety of drivers in the national road network, while at the same time creating issues, because such arrangements are contrary to European legislation governing the trans-European transport networks, the TEN-T, part of which is our central national network. In addition, you have escaped that there is a clear dividing line between national television stations and those that emit regionally. Regional media have specific features that you do not take into account. We agree - because we raised this issue yesterday - with Mr Famelos that they should be dealt with on different criteria, which have to do with the specificities and specificities of the regions, in relation to the number of licences and the staff employed by each channel. We believe that a radical approach to this issue requires that every reference to regional channels should be withdrawn from this bill and that it should come to Parliament very quickly, after a brief consultation, to address all the issues relating to the licensing of regional channels. I believe that this view is supported by a large majority of colleagues. We agree with the proposal - we put it yesterday - for municipal broadcasting stations, because this approach effectively abolishes and disappears. Finally, I would like to say that we will be voting in favour of Mr Philly's amendment. However, this year's huge gaps, the unprecedented gaps, which are not due to Mr. Phile, are due solely to the indifference of Mr. Balta and Mr. Kourakis, since they were busy with the deregulation of the law of Diamantopoulou and the extermination of excellence. There they did not seem to have a way of dealing with this issue. We hope and expect you to understand, ladies and gentlemen, what the Left has been saying over the years, namely that no issue is dealt with without transparency and strict observance of the rules imposed by institutional aid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Good intentions, if they are left to the management of persons, however illuminated they are, in no case ensure the proper functioning of democracy. The chaos we spoke about yesterday, which bears the backs of the fair and unjust political system, the civil servants of the country, will not go away if we do not have a real dealing with the enormous and lasting issue of the interlocutory between those who control the media - and therefore manage public opinion - and the political staff of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mr Barbarousis has the floor and Mr Georgiadis will follow. Here, Mr. Barbaroussi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u316	Thank you. First of all, before I speak about the bill, I would like to make a little comment on the unacceptable image of the Prime Minister yesterday in the Unknown Soldier. While everyone was at a cautionary stand in the upheaval of the National Hymns of Greece and France - at least, Mr. Kammenos was trying to sit, though his pounds weren't at him - the Prime Minister was sitting with his feet open, as if he were making his orders so that his procurers would not get caught and had his hands crossed, as if he waited for the trolley. What can I say? Okay, I understand that for Mr. Tsipras he may not mean anything by the National Anthem and the Unknown Soldier, but he should, for the eyes, also sit at a attention stand and, if anything, have the elementary seriousness rather than look at the sky and open the mouth laughing. I think it is unacceptable and I think it has given us one more time. As far as the bill is concerned, from the first sight of the bill we see all these democratic about objectivity, equality, pluralism and the fact that all opinions and others must be heard. We, of course, at the Golden Dawn by hollow words are full. We know your sensitivity and how much you really care about pluralism and independence of information. We've lived on it all these years. We do not expect - and I wish we could disprove - to change something and to be treated on equal terms. Of course, it would be good for all those who muddle us and exclude us from looking at themselves first, to do their self-criticism and to tell us what they have given to the Greek people so far, because this is where the proverb of the Greek people is saying: "The donkey said the petal head." We are accused of not being democrats and of abolishing your famous democracy. What democracy are we talking about, gentlemen? Who are you kidding? Don't be ridiculous. Democracy, at least here in Greece, does not exist. This was reflected in the famous referendum that the Greek people said by a overwhelming majority, 62%, "no" and you ignored it and did what your bosses commanded you. So let us leave democracy, equality and objectivity, because we are full of words. Let us now move on to specific issues of the bill. Not many years have passed since digital television began, the famous "DIGEA" and all Greeks had to buy either new TVs or decoders. All emitted signals are now controlled by one company. In simple terms, there is a switch, which any government can - we do not say you will, but there is this possibility, if anyone wants it - to take it down and throw black everywhere. We think it's wrong only one body to control 100% of all communication. Another serious issue arising from this bill is what will happen with licences for the province's channels. The Hellenic Region's Information Television Association describes as politically and nationally problematic and institutionally paradoxical the system for granting licences, which is licensed by the most. The contribution of regional stations to information, culture, entertainment and the development of local society is also ignored. Regional stations which are legally operating until now will thus be in a more unfavourable position towards ambitious investors who have not suffered the blow of a long-term economic crisis. In addition, it notes that the provisions promoted are completely ignored and do not take into account the huge dividing line between national and regional television stations at all. The interests of regional television do not match the interests of national television broadcasts. The President of the association also strikes the danger of television frequencies being transferred to Turkish and Albanian business interests, which our Chief spoke about as well as other members of the MPs. You must pay particular attention to this issue, Mr Minister, because it is a national issue with many specific features. However, in what we do not see any reference being made is for the sea-loving of the great-cannaals. You do commonly arrogantly and say nothing about the debts of the channels. Were you, gentlemen of the Left, not the ones who told us you'd clash with the great interests? We see nothing here either for the sea loans taken by the big-fashioned and made villas in Kifissia and Katali or for anything else. We don't see any conflict. On the contrary, I would say. I do not understand why there are no grounds and no references from any other party on this matter. Or maybe I understand! Because they do not have the same status as the common mortals. No one touches them. Every Greek citizen with debts cannot get insurance information and open a new business. Why can they take new loans and licences for the operation of television and radio stations? Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, you're finally one of the same. All words, words, but the essence remains the same. All you have left is the "left" phrase and nothing else. You're actually doing what the previous ones do and you're just as capitalists as the liberals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u317	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Georgiadis now has the floor and Mr Georgiodas then. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, Minister, Mr Skourletis, I would like to express my sympathy for the attack you have taken in Exarchia. As passions, and indeed many times, I can share the anxiety of yours and your family. Of course, it was a time when I was the bad guy and you were the good guy. That doesn't matter. Violence is appalling against anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u319	And now that's true!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Philly, I'm so glad you're here. Before I go into the bill, I'd like to tell you the following. You said today that VAT on education and private schools has a social significance and affects the privileged. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister said he would not hurt those who give EUR 7 000 today to give EUR 500 more. It would make sense, Minister, to discuss what you are saying, but I would like to ask you a question, which I would very much like you to answer later. Mr. Tsipras in the debate before the elections why did he not say that to the Greek people, so that the Greek people know what the true and authentic view of SYRIZA is? Because you, as the Minister of Education, obviously express SYRIZA's genuine opinion on this matter. It would not be democratically nice - that you like democracy! - to have Mr. Tsipras said in debate, not what he said, that I am going to abolish VAT on education, because it is unacceptable - the exact phrase of the Prime Minister - but what you said today? Why did you keep it to us, Mr. Friend, secret for post-election? Why are you old-fashioned politicians? I accept that today you have expressed your ideological position. I would like you to tell me, however, why Mr Tsipras made fun of the whole field of education in an election. And you have to give another answer. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is first news on the largest news sites that the troika - which you have abolished - does not accept, because of the European directive, the gradient VAT on education and says '0% or 23%'. Since the morning that this has become known, there has been absolutely no mention by the government of what it intends to do. And, you know, here we talk about thousands of people who have great agony. Please, Minister, do not tell us general and vague things, but say to us: will it be 0% or 23%? And you can also tell us why Mr Tsipras electionally made fun of the Greek people in vowing the abolition of VAT on education, while you thought he even had a social sign, as you said today. Unless you agree with me that this is a political fraud - I do not want to say that you will, I say it. But someone who elections says something else than what he does a month later... You will also allow me to say this because I have heard Mr Pappas - unfortunately he is now missing - about pensions. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA: You must have too much courage today, following Mr Karugalos' interview with Nikos Hatzinikolaou and what he said, SYRIZA must talk about pensions. I do not know if this House has understood it, but you have fought to prevent the zero deficit clause from being applied, that is to say, reducing supplementary pensions by 5% to 8%. - to finally tell us that Mr. Katrugalos is abolishing the supplementary pension. For it says, Minister, that it incorporates it into the main, but for the main pension it only guarantees EUR 390. So what did Mr. Katrugalos say to us? Auxiliary pension, actually, it's over! And we get all 2.7 billion, which is the property of the ancillary insurance funds, in which, I am sure, the state is not involved, because it is the employer and the insured only contributions. And he gets them and puts them in the state corps. So I do not see you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, react. I see, above all, the SYRIZA Members who were fighting so much for pensions, who were sad at pensions, who did not want the zero deficit clause, to say absolutely nothing about what Mr Katrugalos said. And I wonder, Mr Sakellaridis, - I saw and know you are, he says, and in the inner-party opposition - I wonder, Mr. former Government Representative: A month before this conclusion of the Committee on Wise Men did not Mr. Tsipras know about it? Why would he keep this from us, Mr. Sakellaridis, a month ago? Would it not be democratically nice for the Greek people to know before the pensioner can vote and know that he is voting SYRIZA and will not have a supplementary pension and have democratic legitimacy? Why did you keep this from us for 15 days? Unless you convince us of this Committee of Wise Men, which proposed, among other things, the'softness': a horizontal reduction of 33% in pensions of over EUR 1,000 to solve the insurance problem! Obviously - so that we do not get tired - if we do not give any pensions, the insurance will be solved. That's not much wisdom, it's just mathematics. But I wonder, Mr. Sakellaridis: did Mr. Tsipras not know all these nice things to tell us in the election, that the Greek people should count them in the polls? Now we're going to the bill. Listen, here we have to say clear words, Mr Ministers - Mr Poppas is missing, but it doesn't matter - for this bill and you shouldn't be mocking us. If your aim was to strike the conflict - which we all want in a democratic society no strand - you would not do what you are doing now, namely not say that the Minister will decide on the number of licences. Because obviously we all understand here. As long as the Minister decides the number of licences, it is obviously up to the number of licences and the price of licences, because it is another thing to call for five, and for you to declare fifteen. Another price, another price. And leave the technical details of the auction analysed by Mr. Loverdos. These are technical details. The essence of the tender is: Will it be the same price for five or fifteen or twenty-five? No, of course not! So the price actually has it in his hands. What Minister? The one who will determine the number of permits. But be careful now. This is something worse than complication, because there is something worse than complexity: it is totalitarianism. Why don't you tell us what your Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Famelos, said 'the channels of interlocutory which fought 'no' in the referendum, which was always against SYRIZA'? Tell us that because the channels fought you because you don't like their opinion you want to check them out and blackmail them. But that is the principle of totalitarianism. Don't tell us here that it's supposedly an attempt to resolute and fight the interlocutory war and the rest. It is your ultimate attempt to control the flow of information in full, it is the beginning of totalitarianism. In fact, let us put this together with Mrs Savvaidou and the Savvaid case, ladies and gentlemen, where? That's interesting. Because - it says - it has been prosecuted for breach of duty - I am sure that Mr. Loverdos as an excellent legal officer or Mr. Vorides will tell you how easy it is to prosecute a breach of duty to a public servant, it is almost automatic if a lawsuit is lodged - you have shown the excessive sensitivity to recover the Ministerial Council and to give up Mrs. Savvaidou. I have a question, Minister, and I would like the government to be honest. If it wasn't for Sabbaud and it was called Flambury, would you have shown the same sensitivity to get him out of his place of duty violation? So, in order not to be fooled, a party that swallows Flambury, a party that does not listen to Stathakis, obviously cannot be tempted to prosecute a duty violation. So you don't mind breaking duty. You mind if you didn't have control over the charges. If you link the first thing I said to you, the number of licences, the check that you want to do, through the resignation of Saturdays, to financial control, and if all we hear are true, and we see how you slowly define justice - because that is where SYRIZA begins to be appointed and strange routes - then it starts to compose a hideous face of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, a person who does not want to have democratic control in society, but wants SYRIZA to be able to control anyone who opposes it. And if that happens, ladies and gentlemen, then the SYRIZA period will be the most black period for democracy in the last forty years. I would like specific answers for them. If you really think you want to fight the argument, give the number of licences to the National Radio Council. To make a commitment here that the National Broadcasting Council will say that it will undertake a study of how many licenses technically can be launched and we will go out and publish what the study tells us. Of course, I'm telling you to know, because technology is not 1990 and you know very well that digital frequencies are many, that's where we won't have five or eight or eighteen. We might have five hundred. Because that is the real technical possibility today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u321	Five hundred!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u322	Because that is the real technical possibility today. So you have to tell us why you want to keep the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u323	We'll forget what we know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u324	Five hundred are exaggerated, Minister. Let it be ten. The question is why you should have the exclusive right to determine the number of licences. What's the real reason behind this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u325	I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u326	And to close, since President Holland is here, I want to make two comments. The first observation is to the Minister of Education and the second to the former Minister of Migration and the current President. Mr. Philly, it's a nice visit, Olad. What did the President of France tell us here in this Chamber yesterday? He said: 'We invite you to bring more students to France'. But you should have been upset by this first. You should say: "We want to bring more French students to Greece." That's what you'd like as Minister of Education. But how can we do this when you oppose any attempt to upgrade the university? You were opposed to the revision of Article 16. You don't want any progress in the universities with the foreign language departments. So, obviously, Mr. Holland came here to say a little bit about the Internet language to scare you. But he said something else, for which he did not hear any comment from the government. He did an analysis of the immigration issue and made a clear distinction, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. He said: 'Others the refugees, whom we must quickly see how we can help them take the papers they deserve, but illegal immigrants', those I say illegal immigrants, 'we must tell them that they will be deported immediately and must leave Europe.' To date, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, since you have analysed, with Mr Papa, the European Social Democracy, this distinction made yesterday by Mr Holland, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, has never made it as Minister. And you here in the Chamber refuse to do it and you don't tell us what you're going to do about what your loved one, your new friend, once "Oldreou" told you! - on this big subject. These are the major and fundamental political issues to which your Government must respond, and not generally have chicken battles. If you think, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that the New Democracy will leave you undisturbed to establish a totalitarian city in Greece, you are mistaken! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u327	Come on, Mr. Georgioda. A little over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u328	Madam President, we're only here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u329	I said they'd talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u330	We are only the parliamentary representative and the rapporteur. We don't have another MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u331	I know. Wait, Mr. Carras, there are others in order. Before you are Mr. Papachristopoulos. Come on, Mr. Georgioda. Please keep time! You're all cut when you wait for your turn. But when you go up to the Step, you forget it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Madam President. If you look at all the videos from my speech, Madam President, you will see that I always keep track of time. I would like this, as a sign of genuinely democratic conscience and respect for colleagues, to be done by all of us. Here there is a certain time, a specific rule that we must observe. We cannot all, who thinks he is the holder of the absolute truth, want to analyse it as he thinks, in the time he thinks, by denying the opportunity of other colleagues to speak. Of course, everyone must have a sense of self-restraint, but I think that is something to be imposed by the Bureau, as this is its role. Otherwise, there are issues within the Chamber which do not even honour the parliamentary procedure, and there are also conflicts between fellow Members. I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to take this into account and keep in mind at least the time. The bill. For at least six months, at least, the Prime Minister has been bombing us with a bill on television media, which will stop stranding, which will change the whole country's landscape, which will cut off the Gordian link between the media and various unspeakable interests in the country. In fact, this whole semester is mentioned and progressively promoted. In other words, six months ago, it was first mentioned, after three months it was announced, after two months it was also tabled today, Saturday, it is being discussed. This bill, today, which, in the opinion of the Government and Prime Minister, is what breaks the media system, do you know what news is in today's news reports? Seventh, eighth, maybe tenth. They don't deal with the media about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u333	That makes sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u334	It makes sense. Can I tell you why it makes sense? Two are possible: Or they really don't mind the complexion and they don't care or have the channels of communication between the media and the current government. Because I will remind everyone in the Chamber that when something like this went to be done in 2005, the media were going on by the newspapers. All journalists had turned against the Karamanlis government for the effort it tried to make in 2005. Remind me what happened in 2005 and what happens today? Today, no one deals with this bill, which breaks the abscess of interlocutory in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u335	With only six months of rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u336	That's right. And let me tell you, Minister, why? Because now it's much easier to get through this diaphragm. Do you know why? By concentrating all the powers on the face of a man, the Minister concerned, it is now very easy to create any complication. I'm not saying whether or not it's going to happen, but it's a much easier way. Let me say and remind you of something else in the Chamber, because when SYRIZA's colleagues talk about the phenomena of media interaction, they are looking towards the side of the New Democracy. Do you know the joke that exists in the country? ‘New Democracy-friendly media’. It's a joke. Tell me a media station, a television station that is friendly to the New Democracy, which has shown tolerance to New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u337	Everybody!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u338	Remind entire semesters of the first news supposedly scandals, which have never proved to be scandalous? Can I remind you of the Zahopoulou case? I'll have to say, to remember. Six months was the first news on all television media. Was there any findings, some Zachopoulos scandal? Tell me. How much and how much to remind of! In the consciousness of the world, what everyone knows is precisely that the media, a television station that was New Democracy-friendly! And the Antonis Samaras government and Kostas Karamanlis' government have accepted such a war from all the media, many times overzealous journalists' zeal, many times changing the news agenda when the New Democracy really wanted to go ahead with some innovations and some regulations. So let us stay in this bill, which comes and says one thing: A minister, a man decides the number of permits. I am not going to say a lot of details on this matter. A lot has been mentioned. There are a lot of questions about how licences will come out, whether they will all come out together, if one is left alone, because it is five and not twenty-five, as in all of Europe, since there are no technical obstacles to this. There are many issues that need to be answered. There are many questions you have to answer to the committee and there are many questions about which all associations, whether workers or the media are asking questions. The regional channels sent to all parliamentarians a note with twenty points in which they disagree with the bill. And it's perfectly reasonable. Why, then, come the regional channels - which should normally be rejoicing for this bill today, as they theoretically come to break the conflict, which exists between the four - five large media and any political power - and are protesting? So I think that foolishness and jokes should stop. I don't see with this particular bill making any effort to get clear rules in place. The need to get clear rules in there and there is. Rules which are respected by everyone, but on the basis of which everyone can participate, in order to get any permission and get into television media. There is no solution to this issue, and I think we will all find it in very few months' time, as has been said by other speakers in this Chamber. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I wanted to make two other issues of topicality. One issue is the dismissal of Mrs Savvaidou. Many lawyers here, Mr. Adoni Georgiadis. Can I tell you what would be the least that should have been done? You did well to talk about it. It's not enough to prosecute. I, at least, would like the irrevocable prosecution. I would like the persecution to be irreversible, to allow Mrs Savvaidou to defend herself, in relation to persecution, and then to dismiss herself. I am curious, and I would like to hear how Mr Katrugalos is placed on the Ministerial Council, when he unanimously decided simply to prosecute. I would not like us to expect to go to the audience and perhaps there is a possible conviction, but at least the irrevocable referral, the irrevocable exercise of the criminal prosecution is a right which every defendant has, much more when he has such a position. It was an obligation, both in our legal culture and in the credibility of the political system, not to allow this to happen before irrevocable referral. I will add something to what you said, Mr. Georgiades, in relation to what Mr. Holland said. When we try to separate refugees from economic migrants, we do not have time to complete our phrase. We are under attack from Parliament in particular, that this segregation should not be carried out. It is necessary to make this division. No one has said that the refugees should not be treated in the country. But this separation is necessary, because otherwise we move on dangerous paths. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. It had been announced before by the President-in-Office that Mr Papachristopoulos will speak immediately after Mr Georgiodas. A request has been made and we ask for your consent - I am addressing you, Mr Papachristopoulos - from the Member, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, to be put forward, because there is a serious reason why he should depart. Can you give him your turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u340	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u341	Immediately, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u342	After Mr Papachristopoulos, I would like to take the floor, Mr President. I've asked for it a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Papachristopoulos, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when information is considered to be a dominant factor in growth and prosperity, we here are called upon to vote for a law which clearly ignores the modern age. Because I come from the northern county of Greece, the portal of Europe, Evros, you will allow me to focus on regional television stations. Regional channels have two very basic characters: economic and national. As far as the economy is concerned, they are an integral part of the economy of each province, as they ensure that the people of the region, the border, the islands, remote regions of the country are informed immediately and validly. They promote local markets and show problems and practices, employ dozens of workers and invest thousands of euros, creating multiplier gains. This is a unique means of expressing the countryside but also an appropriate tool for the authorities, in cases of emergency in a time of peace and not just. And these operations under this bill, you show, Minister, that you are against them and do not accept them. You prefer conditions that are unknown yet, giving the Minister in question enormous responsibilities, perhaps even more than with the pan-Hellenic channels. Really, why's he taking them so many powers? Listen to me, power should be equally allocated to authorities, bodies, persons and institutions. Otherwise, there is a risk that the anger of the Greek people will be verified: The madman saw authority and fled. You do not take into account the fact that for twenty-five years private regional stations have been in full possession of their economic activities. The National Broadcasting Council can tell you who are trustworthy, what investments they have made and what investments they have offered, contrary to what they have offered - to add here - to the state, which is not so fair in terms of the regulated quota of state advertising on regional channels. This twenty-five-year course of business, which - let us not forget - has endured the crisis, is now, unfortunately, being thrown into the bench of the unusable. Businesses with nails and teeth hold workers who still damp or pay back investments are at risk of extinction. In addition, it is heard that it is intended to only give two licences per region. When in the digital age there is no problem with frequencies, you limit and strangle. In view of my constituency, Evros, where four stations operate, who will you close? On what criteria? The family business, which all the members of the family have permanently taken over from one sector to another, administrative and financial, other news, technical and electronic, and other newspapers? They work exemplaryly. The business he's giving 20 employees and a bunch of free professionals, journalists and associates, and whose owners don't know what he's going to say day and night? Or does the Orestiad Municipal Television, which manages with four officials - please - deserve to represent the most northern and modern city in Greece? We have many other examples in our region with five and ten employees. All these enterprises are fine in their obligations towards the state, the workers and the market. Most of them are housed, with no great loan. Altogether in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace there are fifteen channels today, eighteen years ago, with an average of about ten employees. You intend, without even taking into account the proportions of population and permits, to leave two stations with twenty people each. For the remaining hundred families who will stay on the road without bread, after the canals have been eliminated, what are you going to do? Where did the three-fold 'bread, education, freedom' go, Mr President? Or, as the directly interested ones fear and declare, do you intend to have these families with a Minister's decision in quasi-minority? Finish the matter with the wall today or remove it. The world directly states that, unfortunately, it does not trust you. Don't make it hard for people of the toil. In which country in Europe do we have such anti-development restrictions on entrepreneurship? Even where? To the briefing! And because I also referred to municipal TV stations, why so much importance in the bill to shut them down? They are special-purpose enterprises and you are trying to turn them into anonymous companies, i.e. by definition unsustainable. It is not your fault, however, that it is the primary television stations. I suggest you exclude them from your intentions. Here I would like to go to the second - and more important - of the regional channels, the national one. Regional channels can be units of multiplier power in a time of peace. In Evros alone, we only have the four TVs I've said and who, in all hours and days, send their programs, their signal and beyond the borders of Greece, to the neighbouring countries, but also to the Internet throughout the world, defending and promoting Hellenism. I'd like to say one more thing. Mr President, you are legislating without taking into account national plans, and indeed, Minister, special handling. There are, they're in place. Read it or, if you don't want it, remove it, because we're not always in a time of peace and at difficult times, regional stations are imperative to be open. Watch out for that. You mutilate a basic arm of national security. Read the classified national plans. It'll be useful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Nor can I comment on the breakdown of the functional capacity of our embassies around the world. You're creating dominance. You break up the single administration and responsibility. There is no provision for protection against targeted redemption movements of large capital licences from abroad, not necessarily investment guidelines. I think you understand what I mean. Some of them are in custody. Don't open the ferry door. Even your ideological red lines to protect the poor businessman against the rich are not protected. Do you have the luxury of putting the country at risk on national issues? No, of course not. I think neither do you want it, and of course you're planning it. It goes without saying that we must stimulate the regional voice, not strangle it. It goes without saying that we must reward regional television, regional radio, the regional newspaper, and make it easier for them. We must not forget that radio, newspaper, television, the Internet must be treated homogeneously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u344	But please shorten your time because we spent the eight-minute time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u345	Yes, Mr. President. Starting from the sensitive areas, at the time of analogue TV, Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, the geographical coverage of the regions of eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the islands of the north and south Aegean were problematic. It was designed by the previous government to ensure full coverage through modern technology, through digital. Unfortunately, you have excluded eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the islands of the north and south Aegean. Please review your decision, our region needs it. Besides, you're also having charred education, and I think you're going to listen to us in our report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u348	Wait a minute, Mr. Spirtzi. I will give the floor to Mr Papachristopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Parliamentary spokesman of the Union of Centres has also called for the floor, Mr Karras. After Mr Papachristopoulos, two Members will speak and then Mr Carras will speak. At the same time, I would like us to agree on one thing. We are currently on the'seven' list, I mean from the list of speakers on the list. Sixty-six Members have registered. On the basis of the end of today's sitting, which is the sixth afternoon, they will be able to speak with the eighth day of the sitting, with twenty-seven Members, taking into account the interventions of Parliament, the Ministers and others. The Bureau therefore proposes that the time should be reduced by two minutes, that is to say, six minutes so that they can speak as many Members as possible. Is this House conducive?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u349	The House therefore consents. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u350	Thank you. Mr. Papachristopoulos, I'm sorry. I have just taken the floor, because there can be no misinformation to the Greek people who are watching us. Firstly, the law nowhere states that there will be two channels in Thrace or in any region. For God's sake, tell me where he's saying that? Secondly, because the issues of national importance - you call them'sensitive areas', we say about the country's outermost regions - is a task exclusively of the ministers of the New Democracy, who signed this map of frequencies in good cooperation with the people you put into the so-called independent ECTT authority, that is, the National Telecommunications and Post Offices Commission and had a single objective: to reduce the cost of investing the only provider for a television signal. You hadn't predicted full coverage. What you had anticipated was for the Greek people to continue paying additional equipment "DIGEA", regions and municipalities to pay the operating costs. Why? What for? In order to raise the capital gains of DIGEA and to raise what the regional stations would pay at DIGEA, because they would have a higher coverage. We have responded to the two programmes, firstly because they are contrary to European legislation. There can be no money from the ESRB either for the State, how much more for a private company such as DIGEA. So if you wanted to have in the sensitive areas, which you say, coverage, you had to carry out the approved study of the Ministry with the seventy-five emission points and not your concern to be the hundreds of fifty-six points, to facilitate the one and only candidates who would be in the competition to be the network provider.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u351	Mr. Spirtzi, please, please complete your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u352	I'll be done. As for whether the world trusts us, it seemed a while ago in the elections how much he trusts us and how much you do. I imagine you don't want people to show again who he soon trusts. You say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u353	After you cut your pensions, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u354	All right, well, be nice of you to bring them up for making health and everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u355	Will this work be done, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u356	Minister, don't answer. And, honourable Members, don't ask, don't interfere. Take time from the next speakers. It's clear, so we don't have any congresses later. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor and we thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. I will spend a minute in my speech to plead for it. The role of Members in plenary must be decisive. As a new Member, and not as a parliamentary representative, I therefore have the following to say: This Chamber could be filled if the Member felt there was a reason in this House. And what do I mean? With the exception of the Prime Minister and the Heads of the parties, I propose - and I shall ask, as far as time is concerned, the privileges of the Ministers, the Parliamentary Representatives, the speakers - as far as time is concerned, I am not talking about other privileges - former Presidents or former Presidents of Parliament should be limited and, on the contrary, the privileges should be strengthened in time, more Members should be able to speak. I think, again, she's one of the things she's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u358	Deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u359	It is something that the Bureau of Parliament should see - I am not talking about you, Mr President, but about the Bureau of Parliament as a whole - so that this story can be brought to an end. I feel guilty because we should not be eating time from a Member who may never appear on any channel anywhere and we deprive him of the opportunity to speak in this House. It's a matter of seeing it later. I'm coming to the object. I don't know how strong our memory is, I want to freshen it up a little and remind you of the following. Have we forgotten that to get a MP in the first of Athens, in the second of Athens, in the first Piraeus, in the second Piraeus, in the first Thessaloniki, in the second Thessaloniki, in the second of thessaloniki, in the second of thessaloniki, you must have a barbas in Koroni? And what do I mean? If you don't "love" a canalarch or a great journalist, I'm sorry, but you have a very small chance of electing a MP. Have we forgotten that? I would also like to remind you that, apart from the fact that these regions - and I agree with too many Members - should be broken up and smaller: have we forgotten that events that were directly linked to the interests of canals have been unstable? Do you want me to remind you that we have gone - I will repeat - as sheep for slaughter and we have played all the Greeks - not me - our properties on the Stock Exchange? Did the channels then play any role, which they sabotaged? Do you want me to remind you that the Greek citizen has never learned the overpriced of the Olympic Games? Why is that? May I remind you that six or seven companies have been saying this for years - the Competition Committee has been taking all the projects and giving the other real entrepreneurs some crumbs? Because these were public suppliers and not businessmen. Do you want me to remind you that the DIGEA had been budgeted for 720 million and was given only for 20 million? Why is that? Do you want me to remind you of the 808 million without any guarantee that the media have taken over in a long time, at the same time as a million citizens - not three hundred and fifty thousand - are below the poverty line and are going to the piles of Mrs Fotio? I also want, for those who have a weak memory, to remind a canalarch, with a newspaper and radio, who said "I will make 1 million available to fire the then Prime Minister" and succeeded. Do you want me to remind you how the Prime Ministers - not even the MPs and the ministers - changed if a canalarch wanted it? Did we forget that? We live in another country, in another reality? I remember a month ago saying: 'Don't worry. What are you blackmailing and not bringing the bill?’ So the bill's here. I didn't say it was perfect, and he doesn't even have it all right. It could be imperfect, and we could talk about them. I have heard the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who respects him because he is always decent, Mr Mitsotakis, saying that no private company determines the staff. He's missing a detail. A pan-Hellenic channel is not a simple private company, it is a private company that forms rules of democracy, those who disappeared in the referendum, in which the twenty-two units were zeroed, which we learned at 12:00 p.m. on Friday evening, and while it was forbidden to broadcast this news, that all deposits are tired of 8,000 to 100,000 euros. Did we forget? I could tell you not one, but a hundred examples from now on until tomorrow morning. One would expect - because it is indeed a question of democracy - in this particular bill, yes, to sit down and make our criticism - imperfections will exist - but all together, this House will give a sign of writing, of ending the pan-state of canalarchs, bankers. And we see another attitude, one that Prokopis Pavlopoulos and Costas Karamanlis did not show at that time. I heard a congressman invoking it, and he did well, with one difference. We were all with him then. And when I say everybody, I mean everyone. We wanted Pavlopoulos to succeed with Kostas Karamanlis then. I see something else here. Is that a bill for opposition maniac? Anti-constitutionalism. We have been reminded of the voidity of the institutions of the European Union and much more. Colleagues, I have heard the word 'integralism' many times, the word 'Gebels', and I have heard a number of things. I am telling you, you are right about what you are saying and I wrongly raise the tone, but I have heard too much incredible. Unbelievable excesses! And say something? The ERT1, as it works today, to whom has it deprived of speaking? If he has depraved someone, you tell me. If not everyone came by - opponents, friends, etc. - and if it has even deprived Members of the Golden Dawn, which, let's say, do not want some of us to go out with them - their right - they have deprived it. I don't know, I honestly tell you. I therefore believe that the sample of this government's writing is positive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have nothing more to say. It is a unique opportunity to end the pan-state of public suppliers and to highlight politics. I said it, I say it, and I will support it. Politics here today is a unique opportunity, not anywhere else, either in the morning shops, in the channels, or anywhere else. Here! We should always talk about democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Makis Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something extremely worrying and I will say why. It would be quite legitimate, I would say to you and possibly necessary intervention, to tell the government that the issue of licensing must be regulated. I do not think there could be any objection at least to that. Now, there can be various discussions, I'll say a few things later on how this can be done. But what do I see, ladies and gentlemen? There is a link between the contents of the information and the possible direction which this may have with the issue of licensing. Is that clear what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u362	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u363	In what way?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u364	I heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u365	And your own MPs, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u366	I'll say that from whoever does this, it gets bad. Because what should first be distinguished, and this is the basic principle of democracy, is that it is a matter of the legitimate right of the public to receive a considerable consideration for the concession of the digital spectrum which is a public good and which is also a completely different issue - but, quite different issue - how one ensures pluralism and pluralism within the media. These are two unrelated things between them. And the impression is made, Minister, that your attitude and choices are choices of political vengeance. I have heard here from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, but I have also heard it from the ANEL Parliamentary spokesman - who has just come down - of the two parties supporting the government that the attitude taken by the media on specific political issues is what makes this intervention necessary. Excuse me, this is the absolute confession that this legislative initiative is not to regulate the landscape of licensing, but to check the information through the licensing process. And when this is combined - and I say this now, to my fellow SYRIZA Members, the majority of the government - with the government's request for strong legislative power of wide competence, then a question of democracy arises, then the objections that my colleagues from New Democracy have said about intent to control and totalitarianism are entitled. What does the licensing process have to do with ensuring pluralism, with the content of the information? Do you want me to accept your criticism too? May I say that there were media that expressed their opinion in a militant and cruel manner? Can I take her? Will you check that through the licensing process? That's a PSE issue. This is a question that one needs to say how one ensures the movement of information, with pluralism. What does one have to do with the other? I have heard, for example, the debate on the matter. Listen. What are we interested in in today's digital age? I've said it from this Step before. My colleagues, who have handled this and technically, will understand what I mean. Do you know how far technically the debate today is on this subject? Do you know how old it is? Already what we are discussing has been overtaken. Do you know why? What's the conflict? Mr. Spirtzis will tell you. He's going to testify about it. You think the crash is between the TV channels? The conflict over the use of the digital spectrum around the world is the conflict between mobile telephony companies that provide such services and channels. The channels are the old and mobile phone companies that now provide digital television and digital information and provide internet are the new one. And do you know what the main argument is for governments on how to spread the spectrum? Why do you give the frequencies to the channels? They don't have any money. They're not worth anything. The money's on the cell phone now. The money is to him, who currently provides the internet. Why do they have what? They're charging the mobile user now. And what do you get from TV? No advertising on a shrunk advertising pie. This is conflict within spectrum usage. What does digital technology give? I do not know if it has arrived at your door, but at the door of Europe it has arrived and it has reached too much. In fact, this committee is trying to regulate. And what does today's technology do? What is the advantage of today's television technology in relation to analogues? The same position of spectrum allows for more emissions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have some time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Voridis, you know very well that we've already agreed on six minutes. As long as you take it you will deprive him of the next one. If you want to complete your thoughts in half a minute, it's possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u368	I'll try to finish too, too fast. So I say that what the bill should guarantee is indeed a transparent licensing procedure. And that doesn't want any crowns or that's how the complex is hit in order to come to an understanding. Why is there a conflict, ladies and gentlemen, in which there are ministers? There is the content, not the authorisation procedure. If one ensures pluralism and pluralism in content from there on, there is no complication. What's the complication? So the conversation is over. That's not the point. Is there really a non-normal one that he does? It raises the issue of frequency concessions - and there really needs to be some money for frequencies - and there must be a fair exchange which asks how it will be determined. So wanting to determine the number, wanting to determine the amount of the consideration and not currently discuss the market, that is, on highly technical issues, raises a suspicion and a shadow heavy. Also, let me - because it's not disconnected - nobody has to see it. When you dive thirteen advisors' posts in the CoR to show Vice-Presidents, ten virtues, nineteen advisors to the Court of Auditors and omit them, there is a question why you are making this choice in justice too. And that comes to be combined with it. And you have the attitude you have in the General Secretariat of Income where - if you'll excuse me - how will you justify this discrimination? For the official, you legislated not to cease the simple exercise of persecution. It's Katrugalu legislation. You have voted for it, ladies and gentlemen. And you are using this legislation to abolish what you have abolished and you have made a special exception in order to get Mrs Savvaidou out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Voridis, warm request, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u370	I'll be done in five seconds. This is what actually gives rise to the legitimate belief that you have begun and built an authoritarian state of the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds because he has referred to the SYRIZA and in my name and I have to clarify exactly what I have said, so that there is no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u372	You have the floor for one minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u373	Because I believe that Mr Vorides knows very well to hear and has, I think, the criterion and the possibility, I will repeat that our view is that it is a public good to secure the digital terrestrial broadcast and gives the right to pluralism and pluralism. I said it clearly. And we're talking about an objective, transparent, fair system. What I said, however, and I repeat - I believe he has heard it, but I will repeat it for ethical reasons - is that it is a challenge and a logic of'say, say, something will remain' by stepping on the sidelines of propaganda, the Members' tactics, claiming that SYRIZA is a favorite canal child. And I asked: 'We are talking about the left-hand side channels that were terrified of bankruptcy, 'yes' in the referendum?'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u374	What does the content have to do with it now? You guys deal with the contents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u375	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u376	Construct with content!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u377	What does it have to do with the legislative initiative?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u378	So, ladies and gentlemen, are you entitled to say that SYRIZA is a favorite canal child and we are not entitled to prove to you that this is not the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u379	Everyone deserves to be told.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u380	But why is the competition very important, and not just the debate on content and pluralism and pluralism? Because very simply a closed system wants to be maintained as a closed system so that no one else enters the process of information and no pluralism. This closed system that is not licensed, objective, fair, transparent licensing can resolve it. This has been a democracy and is a constitutional obligation and a decision of the Council of State since 1998.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u381	You're done. Mr Jellonis has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u382	Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Greek region, I would first like to place myself on the regional channels. Their roles, characteristics and peculiarities are known. That is why they need special criteria. I have heard from many previous speakers, both from the Communism and the Opposition, that they agree to exclude regional channels from this bill and to come up with a new bill setting out what I said about the regional channels. We call, as a Democratic Integration, Minister, for you to now be placed to exclude regional channels from this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, when this bill came to a debate in this House, and indeed in the context of the informal urgency procedure, I felt at first that the government went to change the agenda for political topicality in order to vote for the prerequisites - first home auctions, over-taxation of farmers, education, homes - and the recapitalisation of banks and evaluation before us. And all this, within a time-consuming terribly suffocating, so we don't have to live again in situations that were never known as a country. And I have to say what urgent means. We took it Monday night, to come on Tuesday morning to discuss the bill. On the way, however, as I read the bill, and according to what it contains, it turns out that everything else. The bill brought it in to move it to those who do not comply with your suggestions. Because, anyway, this bill is not applicable a year ago. In fact, the urgency procedure once again offends parliamentaryism and any democratic concepts, when for all of them, you have been tearing your clothes into Parliament for the past year. With regard to what we are constantly hearing about the conduct of the channels towards both sides, and I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek people have not suffered either amnesia nor amnesia. He knows very well that you have grown politically and supported you for this by the fathers of national unjust populism every morning for five years, who have supported your anti-immemorial rhetoric. On the contrary, today, they too have a mutation of memorial in front of Armageddon the third memorial. I now come to the analysis of the draft law, which, according to the requirements of Article 15 of the Constitution, is the purpose of the draft law we are debating today, is to ensure pluralism, objective and equal conditions for the transmission of information and news, to strengthen the social mission of television and to strengthen the cultural development of the country. Only ladies and gentlemen, today's piece of legislation in the House contradicts every concept of pluralism, a democratic principle and a social mission on television. It would make sense to claim all this if we had remained in the analogue era. But today, I would remind you that we are in the digital age of television and with your legislative provisions, you are turning us back twenty years. Also, this overconcentration with the Minister of State is really unexplained and unexplained and democracy will find this before it, ladies and gentlemen. As regards Article 2(4), it says that the minimum paid-up capital to be provided by applicants for regional authorisation will be fixed by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State. It's a concentration of what you're trying to impose. I mentioned just one paragraph of an article to show you that by every means, in every way, you wish to build the new blusconism in Greece. I am also going to place myself on transparency, which you invoke. In Article 17(3), the Chair and Vice-Chairman of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee shall be appointed by the Ministerial Council on a proposal from the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and Networks and the opinion of the Committee of Institutions and Transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u383	You voted for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u384	I personally did not vote because I was not in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u385	Aren't you PASOK? What are you? Democratic Compact!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u386	Do not interrupt the speaker. Please don't interrupt. Mr. Jelloney, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u387	But I would like to say that you are giving me the impression that you are continuing to try to sort out the rest of your days. In relation to Articles 8 and 9, which is historically incomprehensible to determine the number of workers, the qualifications, the status of working relations, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are members of the European Union, unless you have already launched our exit and promote such legislation that violates the rules of the free economy and the free market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. For all that I have said, the PASOK - DIMAR cannot vote for a bill aimed at distorting the democratic functioning of the media and transparency. We have never disagreed with the changes that will modernise and promote the democratic process of media licensing and operation. Nevertheless, the concentration you impose on the hands of a minister, the normalization of the days you are trying to attempt and the forming of a client state that you wish to build, tell us that the only safe path is to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u388	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr George-Dimitrios Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. I have been insisting on going to Stepma for the reason that, without wishing to trouble my colleagues, today by the Central Association, we would have written only the speaker, Mr Saridis, and I, as there was no other Member, to place ourselves, Mr President. So yesterday he gave us the honour of Mr Holland to be in Parliament and made us proud, saying that he is in the cradle of democracy and also saying that we, today's MPs, are the perpetrators and operate in this cradle. Unfortunately, however, his speech also saddened me for an additional reason. He stated in summary that the country is in a social, economic and moral crisis. The social and economic crisis I knew it. Unfortunately, however, with regard to the moral crisis, I see that Europe is currently taking us in this direction. We have to react. We're MPs. We need to bring the country up. I do not want to expand on this point, because my time is limited and I want to continue with the bill. I would simply point out, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe sees us as being morally inferior. What does that mean? Continuing failures? The bill, then. There's been a dialogue. There has been dialogue and I do not want to repeat what I said at previous meetings either of the committee or in plenary yesterday. As long as I see the bill, however, I have a new reflection, because at least to us lawyers it is known that the interpretation of an order does not end either in the first, second, or in the multiple reading. I note, therefore, that I must take account of everyone and put it under the suffering of Parliament. Welcome or badly we have a television scene in Greece that comes from a new legislation and puts it under deletion if you want me to use that concept. Of course, it gives him an indirect lead, as I have said, on the building issue, on equipment, as if he were mobilizing it. However, it is not certain that this moleculosis will resolve matters. So there is a series of channels, particularly regional ones - and that is what should be of greater concern to us, I have heard all my fellow Members refer to regional channels - to compete. You're not giving any advantage to this contest. I would like to make a proposal on this point. In order to facilitate the regional channels for which the Minister has retained the power to fix the starting price and the capital required for the setting up of new companies, to allow them to pay progressively, subject to the deposit of equivalent security letters or a part, so that they are not immediately placed outside the television field. Good or bad, the state has rescheduled them. A relationship of atypical trust was created. All these cases, I fear, will be brought to the courts by actions for damages. So I think the House should see the matter, because the law does not have transitional arrangements. It doesn't tell us anywhere that the existing channels will work for one, two years, six months and then close. He's telling us he's starting an authorisation in the first place. So this is a crucial issue for both the government and Parliament. I will continue on the same subject again. The decisions to be taken by the Minister or by the ministers, at least to have regulatory content in order to take into account, on the basis of the law, a delegated population and geographical criteria. Today the authorisation given does not contain such criteria. That is what I wanted to mention in relation to the main body, the first fifteen articles of the law. I would like to raise another point about the ERT multiplier. I think there is a horizontal partnership between two state-owned companies - a group if you want to call it - and the privilege is given by law to ERT to create a network of providers. I have not understood whether there is a need for ERT's own service to have a multiplier. It is already served by the same means, because it has a pan-Hellenic scope as radio stations. So, if we were not to have any issues with regard to the current operation of the other competitive undertakings, there would also be a competition here, and ERT would have to be allowed a separate license to have its multiplier for its needs, or to be given the right to participate in this competition on an equal footing. The question has been raised - our speaker, Mr Saridis, analysed - about government diplomacy and diplomatic communication. We have problems with these provisions. We have particular problems, ladies and gentlemen, because as I have said to the committee at the outset, the Centro Association cannot support such provisions on the grounds that it considers that a risk arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u390	Excuse me, Mr. Carras, for two seconds. I'd be beg quiet in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Keep going, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u391	They're not watching me, Mr. President. On this issue, we cannot stand up and agree on this reason: we have the impression, we have the feeling that a parallel foreign ministry is being created. I must say - and you will allow me to do so too - that I listened carefully that the press representatives have read the memorandum from the following press, the already existing ones - they will communicate the country abroad. I will say: are secret funds hidden under this communication?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u392	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u393	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u394	Only service actors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u395	No, I'm talking about secret funds about the country's communication. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Why am I saying that? How will the foreign journalist be called? Will the Greek follower be moved to listen? We have reservations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u396	...private cost, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u397	We'll see about that, Mr. Comrade. On the question of the amendment of the Ministry of Education, I have a major ethical issue. I have to say, this is a chance that Mr. Friends is here, and I would ask him to listen to me. This amendment, first of all, as I read it, must be urgent and must be voted on. We wouldn't have had any objections. But we are problematic, because by listening to the Minister earlier this morning, he said that seconded people would be withdrawn, but on a time horizon that I did not understand if it was short or long. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I am in favour of the amendment. Our proposal is one. To withdraw the amendment. To have a new amendment with two paragraphs. One paragraph should be immediately revocation of posted, immediate withdrawal of a return to schools, so that schools can function. Because schools don't work. We all know that. It doesn't matter if they were in positions out of training, etc. Let's get inside the classrooms. Let's keep the kids and make the choice later. There must be an immediate withdrawal of the legally seconded and not administratively. Immediately afterward, the second paragraph will give the funds, even to a reduction in the Public Investment Programme. I will say something else, which may be considered a little radical. This act, which the Minister brings us today to vote on, is already in force as a legislative act. The Ministry of Education therefore has time, ladies and gentlemen, because the deadline for ratification of this act of legislation is set until February 2016, forty days after the start of the Parliament's operation and its submission and three months after the Constitution. There's time to bring us this device. The secondments must be withdrawn for education to function. So in this sense, I am not yet in a position to support this provision. My position does not pose a risk to the schools. There is the legislative act that has already transferred the funds. Mr. SYRIZA's representative has carried them. Legislative act. There's money. It should therefore be put on a proper basis, because where I went I saw teachers, teachers and even specialists - who do not exist - to be clutches. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes to make a breakthrough between the Early Neanderthal era and the era of rebirth and civilisation. I am sure that the historian of the future, which many in this Chamber have invoked, discovering the archives from this bill will burglize his clothes, as he will be confronted with the irreversible questions, how is it possible for channels for twenty-five years to operate without permanent permits? How were frequencies granted? What did they get out of here? What was the employment status? How was the fiscal and institutional control of the channels? What and what purposes did this whole uncontrolled lawlessness serve? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership, you are supposed to be cutting off for the private sector of the economy and healthy entrepreneurship. But, as it seems, one of the doctrines that governs and holds and characterizes your policy is Orguelian, "Everyone is equal, but some are more equal than equal." And I'm explaining. How is it possible in the years of the government of the country by the two parties, from the New Democracy and the PASOK, that healthy businesses that asked for and needed loans from the banks do not get a penny of smugglers, while companies that controlled the media, which had liquidity problems, damages and without guaranteeing their recovery, get 'big' loans and even unreturned loans? How is it possible for Larentiadis businessmen to regain loans from the banks after having increased their share capital, while for all other companies this is forbidden? As far as the licensing to which Mr Vorides referred is concerned, and as far as we have to separate licensing from the content of the channels, I should first like to remind you that frequencies are public good. They cannot enter businessmen, cut them, sew them, talk to anyone, sell them, sell them, owe millions, billions of euros to the Greek public and the Greek people, and impose no order. Secondly, with regard to the content of emissions: we have a problem with content. The bill comes to put order on it, too. When, for example, as my colleague from the Independent Greeks mentioned, a 24-hour day before the September elections, a particular large television station broadcasted political broadcasts and SYRIZA and other sensitive citizens had to ask for the intervention of the prosecutor, do you know what was one of the aftermath of this prosecution? The fact that the reporter was driven out of this channel. Thirdly, they are incomprehensible public administration officials who you have chosen, you have appointed, have no say again to anyone, give fines of EUR 75 million, prolong, postpone tax time from advertising, etc., and have the requirement that these officials remain in their seats. I do not say that, of course, neither do I, nor does SYRIZA say so, the Council of State. The Greek Bank of Greece's classified report on channels finances, which was submitted to the financial prosecutor, mentions them very specifically. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and the Democratic Partnership, you are respecting the rules of the market, healthy competition, and nothing. You just tried to build a world in images and in harmony, a world perfectly classic, with an arbitrary stratification, a world in which even the Indian castes are pale. We, on the contrary, do not strike our backs on the great interests, we do not bend our backs to lawlessness, corruption and over-exploitation. We were elected as part of the vast majority of society that has spit blood on your policies so many years, while watching from the channel undisturbed the complex of smuggling in Swiss banks and offshore islands. "It's a lot of Mars money!" This bill comes to order in the abstract, it comes to make those who owe trillions to the public at last pay them, it comes to break the private monopolies of "DIGEA", in which the six main shareholders are the owners of private channels. It is what comes to impose a law and that merely restores the legitimate concepts and facts: that the ERT cannot pay EUR 2,200 000 per annum only for the use of the digital signal transmitters, once it has bought them, would pay much less! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u400	Not in a minute, Mrs. Scouffa. Warm request to finish in less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u401	I shall make a reference to the amendment tabled by Minister Nikos Friends. As an undetermined teacher and as one of the hundreds of thousands of undetermined school graduates, I am sure I am voting in favour of it. Of course, I am also voting in favour of the oral addition you have made, that, in the place of alternates and hourly wages, the policy of the Ministry of Education should now be the permanent appointments, so that neither children nor schools nor the teacher, who, with the suitcase, returns from village to 'three or five'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u402	Ms. Skoufa, please have it completed. You've already exceeded one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u403	But, Minister, you should in the bill take special care of how the secondments are made to public bodies. Because I personally as a Member of Parliament, but I imagine that all other Members are too tired of this clientele, a party state, of those calling for secondments, of running from a parliamentary office to a parliamentary office. No more of this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. The Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Michaloliakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by referring to the amendment tabled by the Minister, Mr Philis, on the appointment of teachers. I would like to say that we will be voting in favour of this amendment because the gaps in public schools are indeed significant. In his television appearance this morning, Mr. Friends said that nowhere in the European Union exists such an extensive network in private education. And that is true. It is also unprecedented that there is a phenomenon in Greece with the so-called "training centres". There are no schools for admission to higher education institutions. We are opposed to an economic view of the educational system. You should know that there are families with limited economic potential, which are being pressed, literally cut off from their family bread, so that their children can get a better education. In fact, it was characteristic and the statement by a prominent KIC official in the past, when he was checked out because he sent his child to a private school, which said "it is a tradition of our family to get a good education". In my time - and most - public schools were wonderful. And there were public schools which had a great deal of success in higher education institutions. There were also two kinds of private schools. The private luxury schools, in which some power groups were being built, which are in Parliament as well - and the concept is, I think, no more mention is needed - which operate with a climate of hard solidarity both in the economic and political spheres. And so we have come from just one school in Greece, which represents the education of the great superpower, many prime ministers, many ministers. How this thing is going, let it be considered. There were, therefore, the private schools of'multiple', there were private schools, where those who could not go to the public school went to. There were many who stopped the public school, which was strict, cut off, left re-testants and went to a school of "Karabourzopoulou", I know, to get the graduation of high school or high school respectively. This is not happening today. Public education is in a tragic state and I am glad you said that "the public school will be upgraded and judged". I wish you'd upgrade the public school. So there will be no need for the pedagogical phenomenon and everything else. As far as the value added tax is concerned, where you have not cleared the matter, because, as you said this morning, you do not have such information from the troika, which, not least, is a troika, it is quartet, then it will become five, six, seven, I do not know what will happen. In fact, there was never a troika nor a quartet for us. One is the boss: the one who keeps the world money. And he regulates everything. In any case, we are struck by 6% in the schools which leaked - I do not know whether it will be implemented - and 13% in private schools. This, in fact, has a character of acceptance, assumption that the public school is downgraded and that for this reason it is necessary for the children to go to the school in order to claim a place in the universities of the country. I now come to the subject of television licences, the general framework that should be available for public information, because for us - and I said it in my previous speech, the day before yesterday, I repeat it today - there is no private television. That's a lie. Television, frequency and right to inform the Greek people must be in the hands of the state. That is why I have to say that, after you speak - and the intent trial, we are not doing - for clearance, I hope you will succeed. Clearance means control of the past. And it's not just the canals. There are also some large-scale journalists, who were front-wing people on all these channels who received wages - not only on private television, but also on the state television - of EUR 25 000, EUR 30 000 a month - and more - who also made the trick of making production companies and even promoting state television on their own shows. So there is a need to investigate what has been done to ensure that there is no repetition and, of course, a responsibility. A great deal is needed in this debate which has taken place over the last three days, whether the permits will be five to eight or more. The argument was used that, because there are potential in terms of digital capacity, there must be many licences. I'll tell you a little story. A major player in the country bought a regional Attica a year ago - some ten years ago, perhaps even more -. In fact, he also made some bourgeois transcripts of large-scale journalists on this channel, which was really not important. He brought two American technicians here, experts on television market issues, and they replied that Greece has commercial margins for only two full-fledged permits and one state. That's where we want a lot of channels. What can we do with these channels if the advertising market isn't enough? What's the point? Unless they want to be great sponsors and benefactors of culture, and that's why they want the channels. Is this the case or is that any television licence you give is, not an economic company, but a political influence mechanism and that is what this is about? That is why I believe that there should be scrutiny on this issue. [[The ending bell of the Secretary General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn is ringing at this point.]] Excuse me, one more minute I'm gonna need it. The complication is a given one. To date, at least, we had the case of the main shareholder - the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi - when he was actually hiding ministers and officials of the New Democracy in order not to vote for the law that Kostas Karamanlis had then brought in to control the television scene and lost the battle. I hope you don't miss her, too. Of course the National Broadcasting Council cannot function as it has done over the last few decades. It's wrong. He didn't do anything. He couldn't control the TV scenery. It must have great potential, even to close stations. It must not be an intergroup, but be an instrument that looks at compliance with the law. Only justice can be available for compliance with the law. Mr. Loverdos said that the situation would end in a year and a half, about who would get the permits, etc. I fear that those who want to have the status of interlocutor are earning valuable political time and must be faster in your decisions and choices. In conclusion, I say that we shall vote'representations' in Article 4, because they certainly have to pay for us too few are the ones you want to pay. Of course, the issue of regional stations is different and there must be a ceiling on payment, because there may be national dangerous toys and some may be able to operate, for example for a Thrace channel even millions of euros in order to get it. Also, we will definitely say'residents' and will not vote against the nomination of shares, provided that there will be the phenomenon of strawberries, which will appear as shareholders. It's already happening right now. With regard to the exclusion of the Golden Dawn from the television stations and the big channels of pimps, we have to say that we are waiting for a real National Broadcasting Council, which will restore justice and that is your mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u406	Mr. Panagiotis Syriza has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today is not just a bill that settles important issues in the audiovisual field. We all know that it is a strong, persistent demand from the Greek people for legitimacy, transparency, political and cultural diversity and pluralism in the sensitive area of media communication. The opposition has been challenging the government so long because it does not finally bring this bill. Now that he's here, he's innocently asking, "Why are you in a hurry?" Yes, Minister, MP, who is renowned for his policy of humor, described you as an emergency. I think, Minister, that you are rightly urgent, that the government is right and that is a matter of urgency for the House to discuss this very important bill. Most of the previous people have dealt with the first place licensing is. You will allow me to focus my speech on finally creating the Hellenic Audiovisual Media Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, the communication of man through sound and image can be ancient - the first writing was in images - but is constantly evolving. And today, in its digital form, unlike what is happening in the world, there is a total lack of strategic planning on audiovisual. Unfortunately, the previous governments were not fully able to implement a regulatory framework, which would combine functions and responsibilities to the benefit of citizens in information, education and the development of entrepreneurship with the aid of audiovisual instruments. The creation of the EMEA therefore offers an opportunity for significant benefits in our shared life. The audiovisual sector in Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is in the worst possible position. With the prolonged economic crisis, many private sector enterprises have closed down and public bodies have been abolished, such as the National Audiovisual Archive. The indigenous film production and distribution have collapsed. Advertising expenditure on private television has been dramatically reduced. Audiovisual education in our country is almost nonexistent. In neither of our universities there are no high-level television studies, and at the same time the audiovisual sector is the fourth fastest growing sector internationally. The creation through the EMEA of a directory, a database in which the audiovisual world will meet with society, is critical and useful multiplier. The EMEA strengthens citizens' involvement in knowledge and information, bringing together all the historical knowledge and information on the evolution of audiovisual communication in our country. It is the audiovisual stock of Greece, which is currently scattered across many organizations. So the collection, preservation and documentation of all audiovisual materials will enhance historical memory, culture, research and entrepreneurship. It therefore takes over a national coordination of the actions of all actors in the country holding and exploiting this material: the ERT, the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication, the Athens and Macedonian News Agency, the National Library, museums and other such bodies. It will thus contribute to the education of Greek citizens in the language and techniques of contemporary audiovisual communication, the use of this communication in education and economic activity. Significantly, the creation of the EMEA is accompanied by a study on the non-charge of the public's state budgets since its establishment and operation. Previously on populism, the previous parliamentary representative found the opportunity to say that this bill will be appointed advisers and secretaries. He obviously did not read that officials from the public sector or civil servants with an indefinite relationship will serve this service. In fact, there are also entire pages and the conditions for diplomas, postgraduates, doctorals, publications and a lot of other things, which one must have to go through to this service, which will also be housed in empty spaces of the General Secretariat for Information and Communication, without further burdening the state corpse. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with the words of Roberto Savio, who is the president of the Inter Press Service, a global news agency. It says that there is no development without democracy, democracy without participation, participation without communication. I therefore welcome this legislative initiative by the Government which covers a very large gap today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Mr Triantafylides has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Marios Katsis will be followed by Mr Papapas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Here you go, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u409	Do not put the comment on 'I am here and I welcome' in my time regarding the possibility for Members of Parliament to have the floor. And let the Bureau ensure that the House does not become a parliament of patriots and pliers, speaking and adopting the ecclesiastical term "all the lips of the wicked".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u410	Mr Triantafylides, do not cause - as the word is a challenge - the Bureau is not entirely responsible for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u411	Time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u412	I'll give you ten or twenty seconds to get you. If you want to agree here that it will close the microphone possibly and automatically in the six-minute, seven-minute or eight minutes that we set, we will be very happy to introduce it. But this is the subject of another debate. You can go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u413	Tie the time a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Triantafylides, please deal with the bill. Continue your speech and the Bureau knows how to measure and keep it. No more suggestions! Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u415	I'm just asking and claiming my time. And this six-minute time you'll take it away from me? We have just heard from Mr Vorides the issue of digital technology, which now makes the views and intentions of holding a competition for the licensing of television channels invalid. Digital technology has been a matter for the European Union since 2006. Our country was constantly receiving two-year extensions until 2014, which was the last extension. I say this to ask myself: Since we are not in need of licences, firstly why have you entered in the 2011 and 2012 budget revenues from EUR 350 million television licences by means of a tender for the award of licences to television channels? Where exactly would you get 350m euros from, since you did not need this digital licensing because of digital technology? Secondly, in the second memorandum you voted on on pages 158 and 159, there is an explicit commitment in the English text to the troika, your friends, that there will be a procedure for the licensing of television channels and EUR 350 million. What exactly did you do? Did you laugh at them? Did you mention to them a sum for which you were sure you didn't need to do so because of the state of technology? It is clear that in the draft law under discussion, there is a peculiar precedent - de - for example - between political and economic power. The question is: 'Who is ruling this country?' A political leader had wondered several decades ago. The dilemma is clear: 'With the people or the pimps?'. The term ‘pimps’ is a loan. I'm not using him. Didn't you say, with your President, "do you bring this bill?" It is a necessary process of self-awareness and self-awareness for the parties that have ruled. So we call on you what you did not do as a government to do it as an Opposition. Come on, let us all go together and say together as a political system - political and political - that in this place the House, the MPs, will do, the people who, through its representatives, will define the conditions and conditions of equality and equality, equal, common for all. What did you do? Instead of making a public tender for private channels licenses, you booked the public TV. In this respect, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that, in the absence of any State aid, it is necessary to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market, in accordance with Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty, it is not necessary to determine whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. When we say 'DIGEA', in order to understand the world, we mean 'network provider', i.e. with shareholders of 'MEGA', 'ANTENNA', 'STAR', 'SKAI' which would give a content mark to 'MEGA', 'ANTENNA', 'STAR', 'SKAI'. In other words, "Yannis and Yannis drink". Colleagues of the New Democracy, do not oppose your deepest historical self. Remember: ‘Basic Shareholder’, 2007 Licensing Act. Attempts are incomplete, so that the political authority can put a stop to the arbitrary press, pimps, 'with my money and with me'. I shall submit to the Minutes an article by my fellow journalist - most importantly, Syria! - Manolis Kotakis, who said in his last article yesterday: "Those of course, we have lived in close proximity to the main shareholder, we know well why the pain of the broadcasting system occurred: because they consider that a collective body is easier to manipulate than a single person". I'm talking about the criticism you're making with the Minister of State. And it closes with this: "We are not defending SYRIZA or the Pope here. Kostas Karamanlis' legacy is behind us. Will anyone defend it or continue to show slavery?' I can't believe it for my colleagues. They'll stand up! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will all go together in this process of discussion, understanding, consensus, making up the 4/5 of the National Broadcasting Council and telling the world that is watching us from the outside that this place is the place where Parliament, the MPs through its representatives representing the Greek people and not the pimps! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We invite you to participate, to contribute to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council. Will you recognise the uncertain historical, social, democratic need for television licences to be auctioned or not? I don't believe it. There are some extremists who keep going. I would like to submit to the Minutes of the House the minutes of October 8, 2012. Questions are Dimitris Papadimoulis and Simos Kedicoglou answers. It describes everything you said a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u416	Mr Triantafylides, we have spent all seven minutes now, along with the time I took you away from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u417	Don't talk to me, Mr. President. I'll finish in twenty seconds. I'm attending, and I'll say hi. Simos Kedicoglou: "I agree, Mr. Papadimoulis. It is a global originality...". That's what Simos Kedicoglou says I haven't seen him in these days. Looks like the killer doesn't go back to the crime scene, ERT's "black"! And I would like to say again: 'I agree, Mr Papadimoulis, that the 20-year provisional licence regime is a universal originality.' And the reasonable question comes: Was this temporary regime of twenty-five years old free?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u418	It was free!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u419	And immediately after the question, "How much money did you receive these twenty years?" He replied as follows: EUR 105,000,000 has been allocated. Well, did Simos Kedicoglou not know in 2012 that in 2002 there has been a law that voted in favour of the revenues of the end-use of 2%?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Triantafylides, it's eight minutes. Tolerance shows the Bureau and I think it has given you plenty of time. Take time from the next speakers. If you want, continue if the House agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u421	I'm closing, Mr. President. On the basis of this procedure that has been, and of the discussion that has been carried out in detail in committee, I would like to ask the PASOK and the New Democracy to jointly give this answer together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Triantafylides, third time and the microphone will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u423	For the political system is a historic, social, undeniable need to say clearly: Your vote will show it: with the people or with the pimps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u424	Mr. Marios Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today consistent with the promise we made to the Greek people to clean up the landscape of radio frequencies from all that led to the glorification of domestic interlocutory, finally to stop the efforts to manipulate public opinion - which we have unfortunately experienced - and which were aimed at the influence of the people's will. We must also restore independence in the information that promotes public dialogue and stop the targeted misinformation. The bill on the licensing of television frequencies comes to bring rules of transparency to the dark space of the media and communication regime. He's coming to put order in twenty-five years of immunity. We know that conflict with the triangle of interlocutory, an integral part of which is the media, will not be easy. But that doesn't scare us. We are determined to put an end, definitive and irrevocable, to the system that fuelled and maintained customer relations between the interests of the oligarchy, the bankrupt civilian staff and unreliable media. Last time you accused us all, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, that we have made a flag of the channel bill, but that we do not dare to bring it to the National Representation. You told us by the mouth of your Heads: 'You and we are here'. Here, we brought the bill, here it is, in front of you. And it's the first bill we bring, as the Prime Minister has promised. Does the class need to enter the field of broadcasting licences? Does the informal tax immunity of SMEs have to be stopped? To these questions we expect answers from you. Broadcasting frequencies are also public good in the digital age, because very shallow criticisms and scientifically unfounded and unfounded have been heard. The reason is simple: The digital signal on terrestrial television is transmitted to the radio frequencies that are similar to the typical analogue television, with the exception of being the multiplier of the signal on the transmitter with a configuration and deformation of the original analogue signal. This increases the amount of data that can be transmitted. That is why we have a better signal quality with the digital signal. It doesn't change the source of the signal, it doesn't change the means of dissemination that is the air and it's a public good. And you even come and confuse - rather from the evil - the terrestrial digital transmission with satellite, the Internet. Why are you doing this? Over here, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, it is good to study the scientific power of your people before you eclipse them from this Step here, because they are called inaccurate. This draft law therefore sets rules for the first time in the licensing process of providers. The legality, in accordance with the constitutional requirements and the relevant decisions of the Council of State, shall thus be restored. The auctioning of broadcasting licences, which brings the bill, is a transparent process which fully respects the public good of information. With the creation of the ERTnet S.A., ERT enters the digital signal provision sector by breaking the scandalous private monopoly of DIGEA. We do not put 'black' on the Public Broadcasting to serve private interests, and I would refer you to the fact that he is true in the minutes of the relevant committees of Parliament for what has been heard by the Director-General for Development and Technology of the ERT, Mr Michalitsis. On the contrary, we are developing the ERT to reach the whole territory, to emits the entire territory. And I stress it for the whole of the country, because I come from Thesprotia, where several regions are excluded from the DIGEA digital signal, as is the case with many regions of the country. Thirdly, we are ensuring regulatory authorities that the telecommunications market and the competent regulatory authority operate in a transparent and efficient way. And we are clear: independent authorities do not mean uncontrolled principles. Independence is about shielding the framework from political interventions, not uncontrolled operation outside laws and rules. Fourthly, with a view to optimising communication tools for development goals, the National Communication Policy Council is set up. Fifth, a Broadcasting Media Register is being established to record and strengthen their pilot function. Ladies and gentlemen, the anarchy of the broadcasting landscape cannot continue, society requires the privileged relationship that some have enjoyed so far. At the beginning of exchange rate and parity, they do not fit favoured and unjusted. The introduction of transparent rules of operation is a democratic division. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, because I do not want to abuse your time, here we have the opposition, which, by losing all credibility, avoids the drafting of the bill by putting various data on a project which do not have any scientific effect. In fact, some people, who were saying: 'Give it up', and when we brought it, not for them, we can prove something, but why should it be done if the landscape is not set up - they told us: 'Why did you bring it'? And now they say: 'We shall vote'. And we also need to make a review of the JRC, which has not understood all this game and the landscape that changes in Europe, which is dynamically things, when the Portuguese Communist Party - the brother party - is ready to help to change Portugal's political life. Here the JRC is obsessed with trying to get out of here to take a stand on this critical issue. The bill is not an act of reunification, it has a self-evident movement of democratic transformation that the place needs and in which you neither want nor can participate, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You go hide behind pretexts so you don't vote for it, just because we expose you to the self-evident point, to defend the public interest. Something you haven't done for years, usually covering them up. By voting against the bill that breaks the consortium monopoly, what exactly are you doing? Society sees and judges. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a move of democratic transformation, a move which the old political system has not dared to do until now. But the left-wing government could in no way ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, too. Mr Pappas, the Government Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for six minutes because he has been ahead - to know - the President of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u427	I begin with the clear statement that the same political and party status ruled - and rules, I would say - decades of this place. More recently, in the 1980s, when he ruled the deep PASOK, he didn't like things that sounded from private channels, he had for them some other kind of treatment. When later the interests and majestics met the demands of the respective rulers, namely the New Democracy and the PASOK, things changed. And while you - supposedly - want to create, as you say, the situation, I am very afraid that we will actually be able to control the channels for your own pursuits. And you know that temptation is great - political temptation I mean - and perhaps you can prove in practice the biblical saying that says: 'the spirit of will, the flesh patient'. For all this we see, they will prove themselves over time. I now come to something that has given me a great impression in reading the articles of the bill. I come to Article 16, where we read at some point that work contracts with external partners may be concluded when necessary, especially in the event of emergency. In other words, it is a phrase that refers to and describes the direct delegation that is now going to take place. And I'm asking. Does the government understand the constitutional provision for objectivity in broadcasting? I must also stress that the lack of borders in the broadcasting field imposed by the technical properties of frequencies does not, at the same time, mean that you must and can open all kinds of borders in the aeronautic propaganda of northern or eastern neighbours, which emit inconsistently up to the middle of Greece, because the strength of our channels is such that they are easy to prey on the strong neighbours, who have on purpose installed strong transmitters at their borders. We should therefore not have an unconditional tradition of technology and another for the enemies of the country, to have a tradition for the respective agents. This means that technically the specifications need to be strengthened so that Greek channels can be powerful in order to be able to emit to the homosexual populations, the neighboring, unsolved indigenous populations of Northern Epirus or Eastern Rome or even the brothers Christians of Pontus and Asia Minor. I also ask what will happen if tomorrow, under the conditions and conditions laid down in this multi-brand plan for the media, the Turks create channels and exercise an adventurous and separatist propaganda in our Greek Thrace? And while you have analysed, Minister, a number of provisions and ideas on this draft law, you have not predicted this very important issue, namely the issue of national security reasons, which should be done and done - as I believe - in all the major serious states. In short, in closing, while you had the opportunity with this bill, you had a unique opportunity to reorder the broadcasting landscape and offer real services at home and the Greeks, instead you wasted your energy. You have wasted it on trivialised property issues, which will now pass the control, I fear, of well-known or new or potentially your own people, without essentially offering any real service to the country and to the citizens. In other words, offering the citizens zero, offering to the strong, offering to those who have money, who have edges, who have offshore, so they all have a channel. And the question arises: is that what is called socialism? Is that what's called the Left? I conclude, Mr President, by emphasising something which is, I believe, an important parameter that was not highlighted by any speaker. This parameter escaped from every speaker. This parameter tells us the Constitution itself in paragraph 2 of Article 16, according to which education is a key task of the state and aims at the moral, spiritual, professional and physical education of the Greeks, the development of national and religious conscience and their modulation to free and responsible citizens. This means that the education which passes through television to each of the Greek birds must take into account the above parameter, and quite seriously, since, in the present situation, television is now mainly the one that carries out training. Grandma's home leaves the TV on this morning. The little child no longer listens to grandma’s fairy tales of older generations, does not see his family, who is struggling for the dilemma. He's watching TV. So the TV comes first in the education of young people, our young children, and secondly the family comes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What do you think today's TV can inflame young citizens? Ethics, spiritual development or national and religious conscience? Having thought and implemented your intention to control the whole television process through the state control you exercise - and this must be done - how do you miss the only good you could achieve through this dominant position that you have reserved yourself, Minister? In other words, correcting the content of television programmes in relation to Article 16 to ensure at least a minimum offer to the nation. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] We want television, like a lot of other issues, to be the lever and the lever for the national education of the Greeks. This is the contribution you can make to information and television for the new generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Kontonis has the floor, State Secretary for Culture and Sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going straight to the point so that I do not waste time. From the speech of the former President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, we have kept some points. And we've kept them, because his references point to the highest degree. Point one. Mr. Venizelos said that the government was supposed to be trying to create new fireplaces. Who are these new fireplaces? And why they are referring to this designation of candidates, which we do not even know, businessmen who want to be involved in the information sector, under the rules of transparency and legality. They are not interested in new fireplaces, ladies and gentlemen. They are interested in the existing ones. Because, with the existing fireplaces in the news today, they have a relationship of blood and a relationship of interlocutory. And that's what we've seen all these years. Twenty-five years of temporary leave. Where did this sound in the world? And why were there twenty-five years of temporary leave? What does temporary mean in this case? So elsewhere it's interesting. It is not for the new fireplaces, which no one knows - we call on you and Article 2 and Article 13 to vote together, where there is absolute transparency in the tender and the auction - it is for the old fireplaces, which are operating today, under the regime that we all know about. Mr Venizelos said that these media, which operate until today - until January 2015 with government change - mistreated the governments, which had so far promoted the policies they were pushing, with the bills voted on by Parliament. Such abuses were abused, which the well-known journalist, Mr. Pretenderis, recently published, says about the restructuring of the debt: “We all knew from the first moment that it is not sustainable. But they were telling us, don't tell me now. It's not right. The result is that by 2010 everyone said - he meant PASOK and the New Democracy - "that debt is sustainable and we did not answer them no. We didn't tell them this was bullshit. We have shown restraint." Such treatment was made by the government and by Mr Venizelos from the channels and by fireplaces that are now defended. And he says one more thing in his book, as regards the risks and the possibility of the left-wing to the government: 'We have called 'cool' more than we had to do with the media.' Such mistreatment. Finally, again, Mr. Prteris in his book refers to a conversation with Mr. Venizelos in June 2012, where then the President of PASOK expressed his discomfort for Mr. Samaras' election tactics. And he says, "The elections will not be judged either by Samaras or Tsipras. They will be asked the question, because the answer will come from this.' And it goes on: 'Even now' - that is, in the time that the book was published - 'I think that the elections of 17 June were judged because' - look - 'one and a half channels and two - three newspapers did their work very difficult. They asked the right question.' Is this the mistreatment of Mr Venizelos and the PASOK governments and Mr Samaras from the channels? And the former President of PASOK comes here today and renounces the government for strife? With who? With those who were taking orders and saying that we've been yelling "bottle" more than once? So I want to say here that at the moment the government is trying to establish normality in the media sector. This normality is to make licensing law, abolish a regime of twenty-five years of temporaryity and get those who want to invest legally, licenses and frequencies which are an asset of the Greek people. And in that sense, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the government is doing national work. For it is the task of the Greek people to ensure that public money is not scattered into the four winds and that everyone who is to be paid for is what is appropriate. One more thing. This bill has been a government election commitment for many years. This is the first time on the left, what had to be done twenty-five years ago. Well, first time left, then. You all understand it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u430	Thank you very much, Mr Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u432	I want to announce something and then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u433	We will never finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u434	It's not our fault, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u435	A request was made for a roll-call vote by twenty-two Members of the New Democracy for thirty-five articles. The roll-call vote, in consultation with the President of Parliament, will take place tonight at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u436	We agreed, Mr President, at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u437	You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u438	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not addressing you - my arguments that I will say you have heard twice - but here the government is not coordinating, although Mr President, I have asked your colleague, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, to ask the government to make an internal consultation so that every minister does not come here and say things that have been said before, or perhaps the Members say so better - better in the sense that we are following the debate here for five days. Every so long a minister comes, says the same thing the previous speakers have said - regardless of the draft law - and forces us, we are here all day long and we do not want to interrupt and take time from our colleagues to reassign ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not talking to you, because I do not want to tell you things I have told you before. I address Mr. Contonis. But this is not a process - it underestimates Parliament and its members - every time we have to repeat because a minister woke him up saying something that was said ten times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u439	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u440	We therefore say, Mr President, that the government must be accustomed to being subject to critical status, whether these channels or others. In fact, you have rushed to rhetoric in pleading for the new owners. That's what you did! And I'm sorry about your failure. You didn't want to, but that's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u441	Is that right? Do you know them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u442	You know them. I have no idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u443	Twenty-five years of temporary leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u444	Do you know them to cut yourself up and say "people, why don't they also take channels? To get them.' But, Mr President, it is for eight minutes - what he spoke about - in PASOK, saying things that have been said before. And I would like to say to him - not to colleagues, but to Mr Contonis - that every government is subject to criticism. For five years, my colleague, all broadcasters, or almost all of them, said 'not to fall down on the cliff', 'to sign agreements', and once they were signed, 'what is what you signed', 'what is that', 'I say, 'I say, one', 'I say the other'. That's how it's done. Get used to it. Now you're going through it. Also, all of your executives or -- to be fair, almost most of them -- had a career in morning TV bands. "My honour, Mr. Varoufakis, here" one, "My honour, Mr. Varoufakis" the other. Same for Mr. Kontonis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u445	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Colleague, you've had a career in the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u448	Do not worry that you are critical. That's how democracies, gentlemen of Stalinist methods...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u449	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u450	...because, Mr. President, on the left, most of us here kept the stalinism. Hey, it's over. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u451	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u453	Wait a minute, Minister. I would like to say to the House and to Mr Loverdo that he is free to be put and to the Minister he cannot prevent the Bureau from being put in the position he believes or thinks. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u454	We asked the government to coordinate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u455	The government as a whole. That's another matter. How long do you want the floor, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, can I say something, and can Mr Contonis answer a whole question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Contonis has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u458	But I've lifted my hand all this time and you're not looking at me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u459	What can we do? She asked for the floor, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u460	All right, let Mr. Contonis answer and come back to me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u461	Do you want, Mr. Contonis, can I give her the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u462	Whatever you want, Mr President. If Mrs. Vulture wants to precede...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u463	Here you go, Mrs. Vulge. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u464	Two minutes. I'll talk soon. We have agreed that all the parliamentary representatives, apart from the fact that we have a right after each minister's speech to speak, should not do so in order for the Members to speak. But that seems to have given the right for all the ministers to come to the Chamber and speak, for us not to speak, for those colleagues who have complained again and who are right and who are doing so. And do you know why this is happening, Mr. Condonne? Because I didn't understand why you came here in the capacity of the Undersecretary and spoke. Because the principle of propaganda is that, to achieve something, you have to focus on one subject and say it many times, so people think that's the truth. For you have said that for twenty-five years there have been no permits, but you have forgotten to say that since 2011 this is not the case. So you spoke about the period 1989-2011 and left the rest of the years, which is our issue at issue. We're talking about the digital age. We never said there was no immunity. I myself have written articles about it. So you came here to repeat something that is not true in order for public opinion to listen to them and say: 'SYRIZA is putting order in the media', which since 2011 has entered the digital age, licenses have been granted, it is all over. I did not hear you bother making a national propaganda centre and creating state journalists who, in order to work somewhere else, must be cleared from the public instrument in which they are working. And if they say anything else in the private media, then they will be allowed to work, as the Minister brought it in by amendment. I can't see you're interested in having freedom of the press hit. How can everyone be toward you? Employers, workers, independent authorities, everyone and you are the only ones infallible. You're just propagandaists. Bring Georgal. It's nothing. And he...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u465	Come on, Georgas. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u466	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Georges made a press surveillance service. You're the one with this law now. Bring him in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u467	The MPs are right. They need to talk, too. I would ask the parliamentary representatives not to speak. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u468	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. The Government, ladies and gentlemen, have you seen that it does not accept criticism and opposition? Firstly, we accept it and discuss it in Parliament. Secondly, we in no journalist have made any suggestions and what he will do. The right is for every professional to express his opinion freely, as he does. In my speech today, Mr Loverdos, I read extracts from a journalist who does not like SYRIZA at all - his right - does so in a way from the means in which he works documented during the same period - and I mentioned what was happening in the critical period. That's why you were disturbed. Because that's not what SYRIZA says. Mr. Protesteris says so. And you're disturbed because Mr. Protesteris says so. And what do you say when it says that we have often called 'fine' or 'debt restructuring', we have done the standing, and we have not said that this debt is unsustainable? That's what bothers you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u469	What does that have to do with anything? That's an expression of opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u470	Of course it has something to do with it, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u471	This disturbs you because what SYRIZA says is being proved in an absolute way, that there was a direct agreement of a political staff who ruled the country, of the channels that emitted these messages...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u472	Is that proof?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u473	...and of course the economic oligarchy, which defined the political framework at the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u474	So, is journalism manipulated? You manipulate her, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u475	So that's what's bothering you. And they bother you twice because Prudeteris says so. And that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u476	So he's a manipulator, too. Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u477	So we'll finish the young people who will...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u478	Is the President manipulated? Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u479	Please, Mrs. Vulture! You're constantly making a fuss. Finally! The fact that you're a woman and we respect you more, don't take advantage of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u480	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u481	Excuse me, I haven't spoken all day to talk to you. Is he a manipulator? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u482	Please! I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u483	Please, Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Loverdos, the new businessmen who may be investing no one knows them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u485	Pretender is a manipulator. The Minister said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u486	Please, Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u487	Hey, how? He said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u488	Here we call on you: vote on Article 2 and Article 13, which is the epitome of legality and transparency. And those who want to invest will not invest with temporary permits or with the backs of no party, but they will invest in an investment project and from there on, life will show and we will all be judged and all will be controlled. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u489	Thank you very much, too. Mr. Karastasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u491	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u492	Wait a minute. Mr. Loverdos, if you and Mrs. Vultesis talk later, then the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA will be asked to speak. The MPs are protesting. Please help us with the work of the Bureau. Let Mr. Karanastasis speak, talk to a few MPs, and then take the floor. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Karanastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u493	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that Members feel that many times too often we have to consider that the Rules of Procedure of this House should be amended. That's what I'm leaving right now like a word...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u494	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u495	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities is in place. We are talking today about a bill that comes to settle things and situations in a very sensitive national, political and social area, the frequencies of terrestrial digital broadcasting of television programmes, a sector that has regulated it a few years ago by the coup d'état of New Democracy - PASOK, by means of its own law, to create a disastrous structure that claims to be universal originality both in terms of its legal status and its other features. The opposition has entered into a struggle of trenches so that those favoured by the present regime, which they have created, do not harm those who are favoured by the present regime. We heard that we poorly brought the bill into consultation in the summer because we wanted to make canals hostage in the run-up to the election period. But do we live in the same country? Is there a citizen of this country who is not aware of the war that SYRIZA has had in election from almost all private media? Mr President, I shall now come to the contents of the bill. It is known that a few years ago the then New Democracy-PASOK coup d'état introduced a law that defined the digital terrestrial television signal and proceeded with a competition for the promotion of contractors. At the same time as the shameful 'black' which he imposed on the ERT, the only public body that had both the infrastructure and the know-how to participate in the competition, he excluded it from it, clarifying the landscape in favour of the shape that created the country's large private channels. So we went to a competition with a contestant for pan-Hellenic frequencies and a smaller one for regional, with no contestant. We awarded all-Greek permits to the sole participant and gave him bonuses, as the law at the time of the case did, and regional permits, since no one was interested in them. In any civilized and favored country in the world this contest would have been declared barren. We are therefore talking about a sinful procedure which has led to a distorted result, which must be raised. The result of the monopolistic situation created was the circumvention of basic provisions of the law at the time, for example the geographical and population coverage of the Greek area and the coincidence of regional frequency bands with the corresponding geographical and administrative areas. Thus, instead of setting up two hundred and seventy-five emission points, such as the Polytechnic with the University of Piraeus, ‘DIGEA’ carried out, with the tolerance of the government, only fifty-six broadcasting points. In this region, and with this option, we have channels of neighbouring regions emit into the one region and the region which should not receive it. In addition, the concession of the public asset of frequencies to only one provider created or favours the creation of complex interoperable economic, political or other interests. We also respond with transparency and fair rules to those who blame us for limiting information. The issue of geographical and population coverage is raised by the provision of the tendering procedure and the completion of the authorisation procedure is made in accordance with the applicable digital signal broadcasting terrestrial frequency maps, as the relevant Minister said in committee. The current maps will be revised immediately to cover 98% of the territory. So the issue of covering sensitive national areas such as border, islands, mountainous areas, etc. is resolved. Finally, authorisations should have a ten-year duration. This ensures investment and monitoring and adaptation to technological developments. It has responded in detail - and I think this is a very important issue - the unscientific argument that the number of frequencies is unlimited. In the existing multipliers, four for the pan-Hellenic "DIGEA" plus two regional plus two ERTs, up to thirty two channels of high-definition pan-Hellenic, regional and therefore the object we have to manage is specific and limited. The deliberate connection to the number of online media or satellites, which are obviously unlimited, did not give rise to those who used it. We use a band specific to the UHF, where the analogue signals used to emit. We know that 800MHz is being used by mobile telephony. Previously, eight multipliers are shared by four high-definition channels. I think that's scientifically answered. I think, however, that an important issue that has been mentioned and must be answered is that, at the point in the draft law on opening up some of the existing car stations on the closed highway, that no service stations were built every thirty kilometres, as provided for in Article 4.6 of the concession agreement adopted by the PASOK and the New Democracy, it must be attributed to the bad concessions, which must, of course, be reviewed and not only at this point, but also to the tolls and tolls and all that. Until this is the case, it makes sense to use some of the existing stations that have been closed to serve the mobile citizens. I'll make a note. At PATHE after the kilometre position 70 on the route Athens-Thessaloniki until the kilometre position 210 there is not a single car service station. However, it is certain that care should also be taken with regard to the hubs of these road safety services. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the draft law successfully corrects many of the bad texts on television, promotes rationalisation, transparency and healthy competition and contributes to the protection of the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr. Karastasis. Mrs. Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u497	Mr President, I request the floor. You told me you were going to give him back to me, and I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u498	Let's not start a speech cycle again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u499	No, no. I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u500	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u501	I apologise to the honourable Member who is next to speak. Minister, you may not have read this book well at all. It speaks of two populisms, namely populism of measures and memoranda and populism of “anti -. ” He's talking about two populisms. She has a catalyst for the PSI. Obviously, they didn't do you for your arguments, and you said the rest. Not to say about the book, of course, but to create some contacts about a channel, which for five years, seven out of seven every morning and at the weekend was targeted by every minister. I have personal memories. Don't cry like little kids, you'll get used to criticising.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u502	What is this, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u503	Secondly, you also referred to Article 13 of the law. Since the Minister of State is here to say something serious, please, Mr Minister, to give us as a simulation of the conduct of the tenders, because I told you that the length of time of each other, even a few hours, creates other prices and that creates inequality. After you invite us to see this positively, tell us how you have thought of it happening in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u504	I'll talk to you in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u505	When you get the floor, obviously, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u506	Mrs. Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u507	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak as if I hadn't had a career in the channels, but in my work I have served for many years. The role of the media in shaping public opinion is well known and it is well known that in our country in recent years they have played the role of an advanced prison, promoting the extreme neoliberal policy that has removed 40% of its income from our people and has led to large parts of poverty and impoverishment. Today, of course, they are absolutely hypocritically seen as defenders of social rights, who are apprehended by SYRIZA's Memorandum of Understanding, which brought the third and worst Memorandum. Society, on the other hand, wants to change the framework in information, entertainment and culture. This draft law, therefore, on the licensing of television frequencies, is an essential step in regulating the operation of the media system. After twenty-five years, the introduction of transparent rules for the operation of the broadcasting landscape is a democratic section which will put an end to the status of immunity. It is in the right direction, and that is why they are trying to demolish it by all those who are passionately defending the positions of the canalarchs and today and over time. Some others are trying to deceive it as a communal diversion or exaggerate, despite the important legislative improvements proposed, the Minister will have the role to play in defining the licences, although this is anticipated and valid in several European countries. They bring the tons up, with a view to changing nothing, those who said we would not dare go down the bill because we are forming the new strand, ignoring the calm intervention of the President of this House for a cross-party consensus on the number of national licences with political and scientific dialogue. They are also deliberately ignoring the important role that the PSE is planning to play as an independent authority, despite the existing problems in its creation, which can be resolved, but also the lack of know-how, since it will play a central role in licensing through international competition on the basis of criteria, tendering, monitoring candidates, respecting the terms of the agreement, granting and withdrawing licences. All together, including lenders, are threatening us by referral to the Court of Justice by the Commission if we do not comply with the suggestions. There are previous cases that have succeeded, such as the case of the cancellation of the main shareholder by the Karamanlis government, which has been a retreat of political power. Is there a historical memory in the New Democracy, which currently belongs to the fierce wars of the new bill? There is also the experience of setting up DIGEA, for which the ERT was closed on one night, and we know from the recent position of the committees that the natural composer was rewarded for its closure by taking over the Vice-President of the responsible independent supervisory authority. In this case, there was also no legal sensitivity that the network provider could not be a content provider and it was evidently forgotten as detail that they were left without a television signal of twelve remote areas, but of non-economic interest, including my place of origin. And we arrive at today, where the parties that have created the existing institutional regime to date, which has been characterised by many as an interactive regime, are voting against the bill, saying even paradoxes or incredible modernisms such as, for example, that the licenses for television networks that transmit a digital signal are invalid, that is the old one, so we don't have to do anything, let us ignore it, or the argument that, for example, the channels have significantly increased the authority of SYRIZA. However, as these positions seem not to be successful in parliament, the threat of canals to redundancies of workers following the constant decline in their wages and rights is a constant threat to every attempt by the government to put rules which are mutually acceptable to everyone. Nor can there be any ignorance of yesterday's strike at all television stations on the day of the visit of the President of the French Republic and not today when the bill is passed. We, on the other hand, in what environment are we trying to legislate? Having voted hard as a result of a painful compromise, after a very difficult and asymmetrical battle in the European field as a necessary step for the next steps we have described, under the suffocating pressures of lenders in all areas for retreat and, above all, under the pressure of popular strata from the cuts that exist and from the unexistent medium-class tax capacity to pay, drained by the measures of the Memorandum Years. Therefore, the legalisation of counter-factual measures or measures to render justice and, together, participation by the holders and occupants, such as the bill on the authorisations we are about to vote on, as well as others mentioned by our Parliamentary representative Mr Famelos, such as the taxation of television advertising that we have already voted on, is in the right direction. The public will have and will have its own digital platform, ensuring minimum competition to avoid phenomena that have affected politics in our country so many years. At this point, I would like to stress the need to incorporate the proposed legislative improvements and amendments for small regional stations and municipal radios, a massive demand for local communities, in order to ensure such a necessary period of pluralism, of course in terms of transparency and legality. And, of course, I will welcome the amendment by the Ministry of Education as absolutely essential to support public schools and structures of special education. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to vote on this important bill and the proposed amendments, because the open bet I think for our Left, which has been given power by the people in a period of bad crisis, is to go ahead with painful compromises, but also to bump some new streets, rekindleing the hope of creating reliable institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u508	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jufi. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr President. I am surprised to hear Mr. Kontonis asking us to believe the government that they come to Parliament and discuss bills with us. I mean, they could obviously not come and we wouldn't talk about the bills. What else are we gonna hear, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u510	Apparently you're being clever.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u511	Don't interrupt me, Minister, please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which is looking forward to changing the landscape in the mediation system. So the first question that the ordinary citizen is asked to answer, and therefore we Members who will be invited to vote at the end, is: does the mediation system need to be changed? Is there a problem with the existing media system? The answer is 'yes, the mediation system must change'. The square media - parties - state contractors must break. We are no longer tolerated by any parties, in cooperation with some instruments and the individual government, to break the money of the Greek people. Because that, ladies and gentlemen, is to date twenty-five years ago. Potami is the only party that since its establishment struggles, resists, cries: "It is enough!" We called on you in February directly after the formation of a government and the planning statements, we called you in April when you brought the bill on the reopening of the ERT: "Get the bill on broadcasting licenses. Break this abscess! "Don't you dare!" So the question now is: does this bill really break the abscess of intertwining and bring a class to the mediation system? The answer is clear. No, it is not possible for a law that makes the Minister of State king, a media dictator, a law that enables the Minister, the Minister concerned, to haggle with any ambitious Canadian ruler, to be accepted on our part. We invited you to change four - five key points of the bill. You didn't change anything. I hear some voices saying 'but, how is it possible not to vote for it, since you were the first to say that the broadcasting scene has to change?' And we respond: But, how do we vote when this bill creates a new landscape of interdependence and gives infinite potential to a person? It doesn't matter what it is. Today is Mr. Pappas. It could be someone else if you want someone with the poorest intentions, someone with the widest possible social acceptance. It could be Father Paisius, it could be Mother Theresa. When he holds such an important and crucial issue as superpower, he will inevitably be accused of being intertwined. Why would you allow that, Minister? And how can you be as sure that in the future another minister will be as pure and indiscriminate as you are? Why are you benefiting from one of the most important conquests of modern political history in our country, the institution of the independent authorities? He will give his opinion to the PSE and if the Minister wants to accept it, or he will decide otherwise. And this glimpse of independent authorities does not only see him in this bill. We see him elsewhere. In the case of Mrs Savvaidou, for example. And I don't actually get into it. Judicial authorities will rule. What I'm saying is for the general depreciation of the independent authorities that when we don't like them we just change them. For example, Mr Theocharis was working very hard, Mrs Savvaidou now because, as you say, she was working a little bit. And finally who's the big loser? The institution itself. But they insist on those voices and say 'you cannot vote when you shouted so much about the matter'. And I say: we must not vote for it, precisely because we want to change this rotten system of the last twenty-five years. We cannot allow the creation of a new interface. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you an example. Assuming that there was a law punishing adultery, wherever it comes, through public stones on Syntagma Square. We are all going to say that this is a shameful law that needs to be changed immediately. It is unacceptable in 2015 to punish adultery through public stonework. So the government comes in and says that 'it is clearly unacceptable and clearly it must also be changed as the first government, let alone the second left, to change it. From now on, adultery will not be punished by public stones on Syntagma Square. In Omonoia Square, he will be punished." And you're telling me why we don't vote for this pervasive law in article and in its entirety? So, ladies and gentlemen, Potami cannot become an accomplice to the crime committed with the blessings of the government. We asked you to prove your pure intentions in practice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. We've asked you to correct this disastrous mistake you're going to make. We invited you to leave aside the micro-political spectacles and look forward to the future. We have called on you to give the political system the credibility it deserves, to take advantage of the opportunity given by the Greek people to write history. We're telling you again and I'm closing with this. We disagree on many, chapters, numbers, licenses, technical issues, but we want to get past everything. We proved it to you the other day. You have now transferred power from the person of the Minister to a truly independent authority, and we will vote for the bill that you are bringing as a whole with four. Otherwise you will find us in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u512	Thank you very much, Mr. Firela. Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u513	Now I'm in a difficult position to come to Step after Mr. Foyla, who was so spectacular. I'm pale in front of him, but I'll try. Ladies and gentlemen, the power of broadcasting as a means of political and cultural communication and therefore a lever to manipulate consciences and public opinion led to the constitutional regulation in paragraph 2 of Article 15, which states that radio and television are directly controlled by the State. Under that constitutional provision, the operation of broadcasters is of public interest to the objectives set out in that provision, such as the objective and equal information and transmission of information and news and of speech and art products and the safeguarding of the quality of emissions in the direction of the country's social and cultural development. Does the existing television scene obey the above constitutional provision? Not only does it obey it, ladies and gentlemen, but what is happening - it has been said by everyone - is reflected in the words 'orthodox landscape' or more precisely as an area particularly organized by the complexion of those exercising and exercising part of the economic hegemony of this place. There are great responsibilities that the Greek state - the two parties, namely, who have ruled the country over the past twenty-five years - has not exercised its right to withdraw over the economic sphere. By accepting, as a new government, the challenge and all that we have promised in an election, with this bill we come to lay the foundations and context of the solution to the problem, the safeguarding and safeguarding of the core of democracy and the conditions of the freedom and will of every citizen, in essence, access to any information that everyone can decide freely. Can we allow this to be regulated by the so-called'markets', as has been said on several occasions? We are called upon to put the right perfection and dash in the story that began in the summer of 1989 when with the n. 1866/1989 on a licence for non-State television was granted to specific publishers the right to use public frequencies and the foundations were laid for the operation of the first private channels in our country. The first authorization to TLETYPOS was signed on 28-8-1989. The ‘MEGA’ began to broadcast in autumn of the same year. At the beginning of the 1990s, the 'ANTENNA' followed it. The party with the operation of the channels started in full institutional void. This institutional gap, which is today as it was, is euphemistically called 'the irreversible landscape', but I call it 'good organized at the base of the neoliberal authorities'. In 1992, on Mitsotakis, seven special licences were issued, and at the end of 1992, on Andrew Papandreou, another five. The channels, without permission, broadcast normally. Then, in 1997, we have the first invitation to tender for normal permits. A hundred and sixty files left in drawers were filed. Of course, the channels are broadcast properly. The 1997 competition was declared barren in '12. Of course, the channels continued to broadcast properly. A new competition was opened in 2003. Fifteen files were filed this time. Their processing started in 2004, but the elections came again, the envelopes entered the drawers. The channels keep emitting properly. With the new New Democracy government, we had Kostas Karamanlis' struggle against the main shareholder, against the five pimps, he allegedly said, meaning the five grand publishers. However, the provision banning the majority package of manufacturers in television media was defeated and resulted in the well-known Rusopoulos law on switching to the digital age, a transition that did not see any incompatibilities. At the same time, he opened the way for the gifts of the government's digital era Samara - Venizelos with the infamous closure of the ERT and the sale for a lens plate all the state-owned “DIGEA” frequency range. In this well-organised complex system, it ends. A framework of rules shall be established for everyone in accordance with the public interest under the transparency regime provided for in Articles 1 and 13 for the auctioning of licences by the National Broadcasting Council, by Article 2 for the frequency licensing process, by Article 5 for the denomination of the shares, by Article 6 for the incompatibilities of the candidates and the justification for the origin of the funds invested. The provisions of Article 8 shall also ensure the quality of the programme provided. Thus, the operation of broadcasting is in line with the constitution that has been flagrantly violated, as the Council of State has repeatedly stated, with the continuous extensions of original provisional licences for twenty-five years. This is the purpose of today's bill. Those who denounce it in general, without it being proposed, want to maintain the existing regime. So are those who disorientate the debate. The same is true of those who now want to see the bill as unconstitutional as well as conflict with Union law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u514	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kozobol. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Constantine Tsiara is calling for a short-day absence abroad as an observer of the European Academy in order to monitor the elections in Azerbaijan. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u515	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u516	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u517	Let's give the floor first to Mrs. Thaleritis and then I'll give the floor to you, because all the Members are rebelling...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u518	For just a minute, I'd like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u519	I'll give him the floor for a minute. All Members of Parliament are quite right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u520	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u521	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u522	Because things were heard last hour by Mrs Vulture about the creation of 'Georgades' and, unfortunately, exactly the same thing was heard at yesterday's plenary session by Mr Theocharis, we are at least frustrated by such likes of democratically elected Members of the Greek Parliament. Here, Ms. Vultesis, it is the field of exercise of popular sovereignty and democracy with vampires and with hectic dictators. Be careful! Secondly, by addressing Mr Fotella, who spoke of superpowers by a dictator, I should like to say to you, Mr Fotella, that according to the bill, the only responsibility is to determine the number of digital signal providers and to determine the starting amount, not the amount of the auction market. With regard to Mr Fotilla's reference to Mrs Savvaidou, I do not know whether the position of the Secretary-General for Public Income of a State tells you something. Is that a trivial position insignificant? Are the independent authorities uncontrollable? Does the felony mean anything to you? In any case, let the lady be judged by justice and if she is acquitted, let her return to her place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u523	Thank you, my colleague. However, in today's sitting you have not been declared a parliamentary representative, Mrs Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u524	Don't I have a right to reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u525	Okay, I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u526	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u527	Mrs. Vuldesis, talk to no Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u528	Wait a minute. I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u529	But you're constantly interrupting the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u530	Look, this is a very serious matter to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u531	It is important that you speak a little later, because it will ask for the floor of another Parliamentary representative then and there will be an ongoing debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u532	What am I supposed to do? He can't stay like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u533	First let the lady colleague in Stepa speak. I can't interrupt her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u534	Let my colleague speak first and then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u535	Please, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u536	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer specifically to this bill, I would like to identify a more general framework, because I would like under this perspective to see this draft law as well. Given that in media societies, the latter are not just observers but players in politics and other social fields, I would agree with the political scientists and communicationists who think the fate of the political system and of the media is common. [[This is where the President-in-Office is occupied by the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis.]] According to George Paulos, who is a professor of the Department of Communications and Media from the University of Athens, with the progress of post-multiple game between political power and business elites both along with the centers abroad, the media is given a particularly heavy reason. It is characteristic that in our country, too, after the fall of the junta, an increasingly complex relationship between media dependence on the political system, particularly by the government, is filled with the use of political, administrative and financial tools. In this process, there is also a gradual transition from the political, administrative dependency of SMEs by the political elites to economic dependency, that is to say, the involvement of the mediators and groups that they have, and through them, in the interest of the system of power itself. In other words, systemic media become the catalyst of the gradual coexistence of political, communication and economic power, leading to a deep political and economic crisis in the Third Hellenic Republic. The judgement of the material means is multifaceted and, as Pylos again mentions, if we talked in medical terms, we would characterize them as many wounds in critical condition. Why? Why, firstly, many of these remaining SMEs are in a bad financial situation and are even threatened with their existence. And this without calculating their debts, i.e. frequency charges, which of course do not pay, insurance contributions, tax obligations and even workers' fees. That is why the SMEs, too, are surviving mainly through bank lending, contrary to other businesses that have been deprived of it all this time, and which, as we all know, has been given in particular: support for specific memorandum policies, and also at great intensity. Not to mention everything that has taken place during the referendum. It is also important to mention that there is unreliability in all instruments and, above all, in traditional instruments. And, as he says, many researches, the means that know the greatest unreliability are those that in the public speech are enclosed in the cycle of interlocutory. This has contributed to the crisis as well as to the multi-modalisation - even before the crisis - of SMEs, to which the political parties themselves have a leading role. Nevertheless, I think the issue today is even more complex and more complex, because it is not only the question of credibility and the fate of SMEs that are inextricably linked to that of the political system, but because these today continue to define public topics but also much of the topic on the Internet. They are still able to define how these issues are understood, regardless of the public's political attitude outside of instruments. For that very reason, change in the media system is vitally necessary. What is the purpose of this draft law? The aim is to regulate, for the first time since 1989, the broadcasting field in the country, an anarchistic and contrary to the public interest, since those who acquired a right to use frequencies impose on the governments their intentions, is a kind of oligarch. We all remember the role of channels in the last period, especially during the memorandum period, in legislation which has gradually become more and more flexible for canalarchs, who have continued to take public works and public supplies. With the present bill, therefore, the end, the solution to this peculiar occupation of public frequencies is being pursued by specific interests, and this is being done through a transparent, impracticable tender for the frequencies and a transparent framework for the functioning of SMEs, unlike the landscape of the interlocutory - known as the 'three corner of sin' - which is made up of the vicious political system, the overlapsed media and the banks. As many are heard and written, we should stress that the regulation of the broadcasting field should not be linked to the content of the media. As much has been mentioned about what happened with this infamous competition for the licenses of digital television networks, I will not go back to what happened. I will only mention that after this infamous competition with a unique interest in 'DIGEA', we all know very well what happened with this auction because it was photographic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two minutes and I'll finish. Since then, DIGEA, a consortium of seven private channels, one closed, serves itself by giving a digital signal to private stations. This was all done through the closure of the ERT. Not to say how all this works to this day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u537	Please complete your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u538	Finally, without mentioning what the objectives of this bill are, I would like to make two points. The first is for municipal companies, which currently have television. It is a special purpose and cannot be converted into an AE because, as we all know, they are governed by the specific institutional framework on self-government and therefore have a problem of funding. The second is that the amendments concerning regional stations really need to be adopted, precisely if we want to talk about the decentralisation of all this information, which must have a democratic city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, Ms. Maria Theleritis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Pappas, Minister of State, has the floor to table some legislative improvements now, so that you can have time to study them and put them on board.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, Mr President. Legislative improvements concern, firstly, the exclusion of local government enterprises because the legal form in which they exist was not laid down in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u541	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u542	The existing ones?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u543	The existing ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u544	What article? The New Democracy agrees with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u545	Now you'll be distributed, of course. It's gonna be a little tiring to read exactly. It is at the end of paragraph 1 of the first Article. In paragraph 6 of the fifth article, the words ‘The National Broadcasting Council may be addressed to internationally recognised chartered accountant companies in order to clarify compliance with the provision by the candidates’. It is an issue that you raised, and that is about'subjects' and denomination.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u546	That's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u547	There is also the following improvement in paragraph 7 of Article 8, where provision is made for the transmission of substantiated programmes and programmes with the possibility of monitoring deaf between five and eleven hours. There is also a legislative improvement in paragraph 4 of Article 9, where, for the regional stations and the notice, which will take place on time, account is taken of population, GDP and soil geomorphology. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Paragraph 5 of Article 13 is replaced by the following: ‘In the event of an unsatisfactory participation by candidates in relation to the number of licences awarded by category, the National Broadcasting Council may, by reasoned decision, cancel the tender and open a new one with the same or lower number of licences’. If there is no satisfactory number of participants, not a suspicion of an unsatisfactory price. Is that right? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] One more minute, Mr President. There is also a legislative improvement, which enables regional stations to be linked to more than one content provider, up to two. In other words, a provincial channel on live transmission will be able to get a programme from a second programme producer. I don't know if I should read them all. Let me read you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u548	Does he have any more improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u549	It is, but they are secondary to the substance. There is only one which, in my opinion, is very critical, and here it would be good to have a broad consensus on the legal form of the Television Council, which enters Article 55 in paragraph 10 and repeals the provision of Article 110(12) of the Treaty. Date of birth: 4055/2012, extending the terms of office of PSE members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u550	Say the linen. What does that mean? Is their term of office over?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u551	Yeah. Look out, Mr. Kutsuko. The vote of the bill here, as I said in my first place, is the beginning. It is necessary for the law to function - and he and the previous one, if you like - is political maturity and the broad consensus on the establishment of a National Broadcasting Council, which will meet the expectations of all the wings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u552	But you didn't do it last time. Now you want to. Now you'll get the shakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u553	Okay. As you wish! It's your democratic right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u554	That's what I was saying when I was you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u555	You have the responsibility of Officer Opposition. It will be distributed and we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u556	Please, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u557	I think we can start from tonight to take the necessary steps, in a spirit of understanding and convergence, to give the Greek people what they deserve: a clean television landscape and the information they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u558	Thank you. Please share with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u559	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Loverdos has a question to ask. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u561	Minister, you were applauded by the majority Members. In Article 55, I think, you made the change related to the National Broadcasting Council. But what you are tabling as a legislative initiative is that the suspension of the extended term of four members, if I am not mistaken, of the administration. Would you explain that, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u562	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u563	The members of the National Broadcasting Council, as far as I know, have not completed all the mandate provided for by the law. For example, there is a member who is a member for a year and a half. However, any replacement requires the convening of the Conference of Presidents and the formation of the required majority. I want to stress this because it is the most important of all. This opens up the possibility of setting up a National Broadcasting Council with legal composition. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u564	Mr President, what the Minister said is crucial. There are semantic difficulties and we will read it. But there's a need for later placements. The parties must also be placed in this regard. Not to take the floor now, because we haven't read it. Keep us the right, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u565	Obviously. All right, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u566	Mr President, could I ask a detailed question?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u567	Mr. Papatheodorou, you don't have the floor. We have to move on. We must bear in mind that at seven o'clock is roll-call vote and must speak to ministers, party leaders and MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u568	To understand what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u569	No, Mr. Papatheodorou. We'll be on time. The floor has been requested by the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panos Kammenos. Mr Kammene, please put yourself in a position for eight minutes, because Members must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u570	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask him to speak as President of the Independent Greeks and not as Minister of National Defence, as President of a movement, which many wanted not to be in the House today, and in particular I think they wanted it not to be in the House today so that this debate would not take place. In this debate, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will put some information to prove that we all ought to be all of us, regardless of whether we are in Coalition or Opposition, to support this draft law and to end the issue of the supremacy of canalutists and certain journalists who are involved in gangs that decide on political extermination, regardless of where they are, on the basis of whether or not they are serving specific interests not politically, but business. I will prove, ladies and gentlemen, that not only the existing pimps, as Costas Karamanlis said in 2004, but also the ambitious pimps want to get free channels. We have to provide for such clauses in this law as to whether or not they will be entitled to claim licences for such channels, that is to say, whether we are entitled to blackmail us and blackmail the Greek people, abolishing the Greek Parliament, whether we should allow them or not. That is why I believe that this draft law is institutional in which we have to say our views and decide together whether the Greek Parliament in a parliamentary democracy will have the floor, the power and the mandate of the Greek people, or whether they will continue to govern this place here, not specific pimps, or publishers or canalots, if they will continue to report journalists real serving the opinion, which is fair or will act as murderers of particular interests. I said some people would like the Independent Greeks not to be in the House. It is legitimate that some journalists, interests, should not be a party in the House. It is not fair, however, to use the media available to them by the Greek people to use the Greek people's money from illegal loans from banks in order to influence public opinion. Examples: in the last elections polls, which were cooked in collaboration with interests and transmitted by the media, are such that they did not intend to measure public opinion but to influence it. Unfortunately, not only companies, but universities, were involved in this case. University of Macedonia for the SKAI TV station, measuring 28-8-2015: Independent Greeks: 2% with a reduction. ‘MPB’ for the TV station ‘STAR CHANNEL’ on 5-9-2015: SYRIZA: 25.1%. New Republic: 25.1%. I remind you that the difference is 7.5%.Independent Greeks: 2.3% University of Macedonia for SKAI TV station on 6-9-2015: SYRIZA: 27%. New Republic: 27%. Independent Greeks: 1.5%, with reduction. University of Macedonia for SKAI television station on 11-9-2015: SYRIZA: 28.5%. New Republic: 27.5%. A unit of difference. Independent Greeks: 2%, with reduction. ‘PULSE’ for the TV station ‘ACTION TV’ on 15-9-2015: SYRIZA: 28%. New Republic: 28.5%. Come on in. Independent Greeks: 2.5%. University of Macedonia for the SKAI television station on 18-9-2015: We arrive at the elections. SYRIZA: 31%. New Republic: 28.5%. A half a unit of difference. Independent Greeks: 2%. "METRON ANALYSIS" for the TV station "ANTENNA", 18-9-2015: New Democracy 24%, SYRIZA 24.5%, Independent Greeks 2.3%. An excerpt from the news release "SKAI" - A poll presentation of the University of Macedonia: The poll shows the intention of voting for the Independent Greeks with 2%. There is a debate on the moves of voters. "COSONIA: Important leaks for the Independent Greeks. MAANDZIDIS: (MAKEDONIA University), we're paying him. She was under 40 percent, at some point she was under 33%, today she goes to 42%. It's not enough for him. Where are the voters going? New Democracy, SYRIZA and Golden Dawn, a percentage of 8%. I assume that the frustrated anti-monstrous voters of the ANELs are moving towards a more consistent anti-monstrous party." This proves, ladies and gentlemen, that the channels in cooperation with polling companies have influenced and tried to influence public opinion in the elections, 'enforceing' effectively the will of the Greek people. I'm filing all the evidence to the House. [[At this point the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same polling companies were the ones in the referendum, with a difference of over 20%, gave: University of Macedonia, 3-7-2015 "NAI" 42.5%, "OTH" 43%, a difference of 0.5% from 20%. 'ALCO' for the newspaper 'NATIONS', 43.4%, 'NO' 44.8%. ‘ALCO’ for the ‘ORIGINAL’, 41.1%, 41.7%. "METRON ANALYSIS" for "PARAPOLITIC", 46%, 47%. These are polling companies, which we still allow to operate and are polling companies, which, in cooperation with the channels and paying the channels, have tried to influence public opinion. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] Do they or do they have no responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, do these poll companies? You know the same companies are now involved in the internalities of the New Democracy. The company that made 0.5%...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u571	Are you monitoring these too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u572	I'm watching these too. You know, I'm so sorry and I'm watching them. I hope that you will follow the decisions of the House, where Mr Haikalis unanimously yesterday, the Commission 'from where you were,' has been entitled by the complaint you made, you have forced us to take this man off the lists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u573	An apology to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u574	Apologies, Mr. Ausgeakis, you should tell Mr. Haikalis. [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] Yesterday you voted for his discharge in "outside you", but you had to come out of the lists, supposedly having offshore and money abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u575	We didn't force anyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u576	Apologies, Mrs. Vulture, you should have said. We have particular sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u577	You apologise for what you've done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u578	Anyway. Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u579	When did we say something? I'm sorry to ask you. We didn't cut Chikalis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u580	"SCAI" at 18.00 p.m. He's got offshore, he's got money abroad...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u581	And we told you who to put on your vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u582	You threw him all the mud and wanted to use his candidacy to support your election campaign. Shame on you! An apology you had to ask for!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u583	Did we dictate your vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u584	You're playing a package together.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u585	Did we dictate Haikalus? What are you talking about? Did we tell you not to put him on?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u586	You smashed him!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u587	And he couldn't have put him, believed him? Now listen! We smashed him out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u588	I'd say an apology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u589	Mr President, I will use my time as the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u590	Eight minutes you've got.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u591	No, I don't have as President Party eight minutes. I am using the time of the parliamentary representative and four minutes of dentistry. I will present to the House, ladies and gentlemen, comments from journalists in the pre-election period, who are subject to the verification of the ethics of the Committee on Ethics of the Broadcasting Council. “PORTANT:...”, he, who was at that time, why he did not say so at that time: “...We have now entered a fairy tale. We will die in the end to hear nonsense, ridiculousness and lies. Then let the partner go up and report it after Mr. Kammens liked the chair." BOGDANOS: "But this is Kammenos's practice. He gets some mud out of the pocket, throws it where he finds it in front of him, especially when he has the back on the wall." Another news report. The order comes out of six prosecutors, and I'm being charged with innocent Kammenos attacking Meimarakis. Spice journalist: "Vangelis Meimarakis and Panos Kammenos exchanged vagina. The President of the Independent Greeks attacked the President of the New Democracy. Panos Kammenos once again tried to involve Vangelis Meimarakis in the case of submarines, knowing that the Chief of the New Democracy could not answer because of the process." And we get to the last one. I am voting with my daughter in the referendum and after Mr. Economou, with Mr. Lyritzis, began to say that soon I will recruit them, etc., while my four children were watching TV at home and I had the baby with me who went to vote, he said, "He didn't give ID, he gave passport. The passport had it together. He's about to go." Below is the Economou talking now and he says to the baby, "What will you become when you grow up? It is good for the child not to take such examples, but anyway such hours." And the Economou moves forward "A fine example from Kammenos, be like Kammenos. Do you want your child to be like Kammenos?" At that time, ladies and gentlemen, the four children were watching television! No intervention from the Television Council! Those are the information pimps! And to them today we have to put rules on how they work! I'm on my way down, closing up with it. I apologise, Mr President. Term of malicious extortion. Mr. Paul Giannakopoulos is an honest entrepreneur from the best pharmaceutical manufacturers in the country - one cannot fend him anything - on offer in Greece. His son decided to be a canalarch. It was therefore launched with the blog 'NEWSBOMB'. What does 'NEWSBOMB' write, then, on 16 September? "That's why they have to go back into the House of Kammenos and ANEL." Hymns! They go forward on 20-9-2015: "Thriampos Tsipras - Kammenos and the Valterlo of the polluters". On the 17th of September: "Standard: We have first the boat called Greece". I move on to the following, with bi-corruption reports: "Booked: Let the people know which politicians are behind the Lagard list", because they must be in the House, etc. I'm filing it in the House. [[At this point, the Minister for National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did Mr. Giannakopoulos want? Mr. Giannakopoulos wanted me, as a government partner and President of the Independent Greeks, by sending SMS to the phone my wife and my wife, to demand what he had to demand. First requirement: ‘Good morning. Will George, our candidate, enter health as a non-parliamentary? Please be careful not to get us anywhere near the Constantine again! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Second SMS, 14.51' after midday, 21 September: 'Congratulations. I hope that this time you will be able to close your entire four years and without hindrances to be able to correct the atrocities of the previous 40 years. Good power. ‘NEWSBOMB’ is a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u592	Mr President, if you're kind, you can finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u593	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's a serious matter. I'll be right over. On the 21st of another SMS: ‘Good morning. Will George go in again as a non-parliamentary?' And he says the same thing again: 'Don't Contonis go in'. And it goes on, September 24th: "Constantine not only did nothing, but he does not accept a date." And September 24th, 20.57' after lunch, he sends the following SMS: "If I don't tear you down until Christmas, not my name is Giannakopoulou." The same site, which has praised us since the 24th of the month, writes: "The story was written by stains", with a picture of my own and the Prime Minister. "Life bomb against Kammenos: He did not give me the information on armaments", "Inappropriate and dangerous", the home of my mother-in-law, "The Kammenos with a high-ranking government official mocked the Committee on Truth about the debt", "Revelation: Why Meimarakis called Kammeni condemned", a decision by a Swiss court with which I was justified because he was absent, "Home auctions: In the cold left execution by Tsipras and Red Panos", "Black day for Greek journalism - Minister threatened "NEWSBOMB". [[At this point, the Minister for National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This gentleman, ladies and gentlemen, claims to have a channel to do what? To get 223 million loans, cutting off loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, as has happened so far, and threatening the political life of the country? Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These gentlemen should know that the seasons are over when their dad took the police station to let them go when they got caught in the pocket at the parties in Mykonos. They should understand that the pimp doesn't pass through the Greek Parliament! The pimp's over! He's fallen down either they've been pimps with a past or they're pimps who want to take the place in their hands! [[Applause from the wings of ANEL and SYRIZA]] Minister, you must put one more provision, if you please. In other words, people who want to be involved in the equity composition cannot be convicted or prosecuted for offences such as slandering and blackmail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u594	Thank you to the President of the Independent Greeks Mr Kammenos, who also used his denology. That is why, Minister, we have shown this tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u595	Mr President, could I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u596	For what, Mr. Ausgeakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u597	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u598	All right, Mrs. Vulture. Mr. Augias as what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u599	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u600	What's the staff? If you'll excuse me, don't start this personal story. Explain for seconds the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u601	Within thirty seconds, I'll give it to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u602	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u603	Mr President, I will not comment on what has been said about the bill, as this is another job. As far as Mr Haikalis is concerned, I would like to say this. I am sorry that he did not participate in the ballots of the Independent Greeks, someone else must say so and not us. We, as a New Democracy, have exercised parliamentary control and are waiting for an answer. If this decision has been made, and if that's the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u604	So you don't know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u605	I am not disputing you or questioning you. Here we go, and we'll see her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u606	After we smashed him...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u607	Nevertheless, Mr. Haikalis from another was cut from the ballots of the Independent Greeks and not from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u608	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u609	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u610	And you, Mrs. Vulture? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u611	Look, because things have been heard, Mr Pappas, I imagine that this time, after what Mr Kammenos said, you will not open the Posidoni to go with him to the bushes. You won't be very happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u612	Just quiet down, please. Keep going, so the process can progress smoothly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u613	Where your friends go to Mykonos, with the 60,000 euro champagne!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u614	It's your friends, Mr. Kammenos, if I remember. The ingratitude, you know, is a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u615	Don't have a dialogue. Say your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u616	Listen. Mr. Kontonis started it and Mr. Kammenos ended it. We have so far known that the government is saying that it brings a bill to order in terms of permits, etc. In the light of what Mr Kontonis and Mr Kammenos have said, it seems that the government brings a bill to put an order in the field of information and journalists. I guess that's what you meant in the end, Mr. Poppa, otherwise you would disprove them, because Mr. Condonis said that there are manipulative journalists, interpreting them like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u617	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u618	Mr. Samaras until he becomes a congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u619	Please. Mrs. Vuldesis, continue to complete your work, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u620	Can I have the floor? Are we gonna put order here at least?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u621	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u622	Good. Mr. Kontonis said that there are manipulative journalists, because a journalist, Mr. Protesteris, in this regard, did what many of us usually do, namely say, ‘We have told the whole truth? Did we get carried away? Were we convinced of something that is not true?' But that's not manipulation. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA and ANEL wings]] Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen. You haven't heard all about it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u623	Isn't this a slander for my wife, Mrs. Vultisis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u624	I wouldn't let Tsukatos trial you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u625	Isn't it manipulation that you're defending her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u626	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u627	Do me a favor, Mr. Kammenos. The gentleman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u628	I didn't say that thing you're talking about, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u629	You said journalists are manipulating, so you... That is where I said "Mrs. Vaki, with all this, bring Georgia". I didn't mean anything, but I know what was going on. And there was a press surveillance service. And Mr. Kammenos comes along and says about journalists participating in gangs. To say names. To say whether they will continue to report journalists regular or murderers of certain interests. This is where very serious issues arise. If the President of the Independent Greeks and Minister of National Defence, a partner to the government, has such evidence, that there are journalists who are members of gangs and murderers, he must give them. Otherwise, he has to tell us why he's saying it. At all times he was talking to us about someone who is going to ask for permission! It's not about the bill. And he gave us the "NEWSBOMB", a site. Is there going to be a check on the websites as well?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u630	Please finish, Mrs. Whack!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u631	So, Mr President, Mr Kammenos is obliged to bring the names of journalists belonging to gangs and gangs of murderers!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u632	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u633	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u634	No, no! Mr. Aggenakis, we don't take the floor anytime.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u635	Well, Mr. President, I'm being briefed by my colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u636	Please! You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u637	...that Mr Haikalis' decision is anything but "oil".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u638	You don't have the floor, Mr. Ausgeakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u639	Mr President, false evidence has been filed here. I am told, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday in the debate on 'possibly' at all times, as Mr Kammens said, it is the business of Mr Haikalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u640	You don't have the floor! It's not helping what you're doing! Please! You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u641	The possibility of tax evasion is already being considered for an amount of alpha and, secondly, the existence of a company in Cyprus is not called into question by its name. Okay, Mr. President? So, no lies inside the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u642	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u643	Mr Famellos has the floor for a minute as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u644	In a sign of fellow solidarity and because Mrs Vulture raised the question of what exactly manipulation is, I would like to give her an example. Manipulation is to take the ERT and the PSE and ban the transmission of an interview with the Chief of Officer Response at the exhibition...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u645	That's never happened! Do you have proof? Bring them in!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u646	Mrs. Vulture, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u647	But please very much what matters most...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u648	Mr. Femmelle, stop for a minute. Mrs. Vulture, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u649	Sit down! Stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u650	Stop it! You stop! Do you have proof? Get them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u651	Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u652	No, you'll bring proof of this! If they have proof, they'll be brought in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u653	Mrs. Vulture, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u654	I have your notes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u655	Bring them, bring my notes! Mr. Minister says he has my notes. Get them! Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u656	Gentlemen, please! You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u657	Get Zula to tell you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u658	Minister, please, you too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u659	I don't have the contacts. My notes to bring! You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u660	A minute before Mr Famelos concludes his position, and immediately thereafter the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u661	How much do you pay for...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u662	Shame on you! You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u663	How many were you assigned to the RES?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u664	Shame on you! Get the notes! You're a slander, just like you've always been! Listen, he's got my notes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u665	We won't be able to finish. Mrs. Vulture, you're making it easier, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u666	Mr President, he said here that he has my notes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u667	No, Mrs. Vulture! No, you don't have the floor. Please! Mr Famelos complete his thoughts and then the President of the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u668	What's a liar? You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u669	Why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u670	Mr. Leventis, wait a minute, please. Don't go up to the descent yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u671	You're a liar! Bring the notes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u672	Please! You're going to force me to interrupt the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u673	Why did you sign on four?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u674	Mrs Vulture, this is not a procedure! Please, too! Expose yourself! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u675	No, Mr President, it's your fault! You're in charge! He said he's got my notes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u676	Mr. Famelos has the floor. We can't speak with screams. Please, too! I appeal to everyone. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u677	I will speak on staff to continue, Mr President! He said he's got my notes. Do you understand, Mr. President? He's gone! Sure. Where would the liar sit?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u678	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u679	I think, however, that what is more important than the etymology of the word'management' is not to react to the attempt to legislate a framework so that the anarchy of twenty-five years is stopped, lawlessness and complexity, because all we do if we respond is to prove that it is of interest and that we are associated with strife and lawlessness. And if the Civic Opposition - if Mrs Vulture and Mr Meimarakis share the same view - if we need an institutional framework, if we need competition and transparency, because they still have not answered the basic question of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u680	Thank you. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor for eight minutes. Please be strict, because we are too late and other Members need to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u681	Only, Mr. President? Does everyone have the same time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u682	Everybody! Both the presidents and the ministers. Here, you have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u683	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the climate has deteriorated a little. To be honest, I didn't understand what happened. I don't know who said what happened. I understand something about Ms. Vultesis' notes, about a Giannakopoulos - obviously the pharmaceutical industry must be - who wants to make a channel...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u684	The son!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u685	The son!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u686	The son? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u687	Yes, but there are no notes, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u688	Oh, okay. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u689	Mrs. Vulture, please! Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u690	No, because he says it now in Step!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u691	I didn't say they existed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u692	There aren't any!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u693	I'm talking about some of the notes that have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u694	Which the prosecutor blames. Yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u695	They probably don't exist. The main objective of the bill, in my view, should be to get into order and pluralism, that is, to have all channels to host all, to give voice to everyone and to be treated equally. That's where the effort had to be made. And that's where the law says nothing. The law mentions new companies from now on. He ignores the older ones and probably has a great negative law, as a forgiveness for the sins to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u697	Okay, you're convinced that you're not. But I mention it in order to have the speeches, because it only refers to what will happen from now on, and because everyone will rush to join new companies - the old ones are not taken into consideration - one who has a debt from the past will patronise the companies. And so it makes it easier to eat money from Greek taxpayers, because if they owe it to state banks - which was usually the case - they will not give one. I say that as a risk. Note this and you will see that this will be accurate, that this danger will be verified. For the functioning of the media, there is no prediction that there should be equalisation, pluralism, democracy. Also, for the new companies - let's say we're done with the old ones and we're putting a definitive deletion of the chaotic past, and we're talking about the new ones - all over the world, they're putting rules to reduce the power of canalarchs. In other words, they oblige the Church to participate in share capital, to participate social actors, that is, they give a large proportion, a 40%, across Europe in the channels, in social players, in well-founded institutions and in ordinary citizens to have a say. Here, a croissant will show up, do the channel and do whatever he wants. Nothing is predicted. We also put the croissants next to the younger ones. In other words, it is not foreseen that they can also pay the price for those who are economically weaker. So everyone will find themselves in front of a sum of 20 million, 8 million, I do not know how much, it has not been set. The ones who can and are Latsis, let's say, he's going to pay for it. There is no provision for an attempt to give the first year 2 million, for the second year another 2 million and for smaller people to enter the channels. They will enter the Atlantic Ocean directly where only five, ten Greeks can swim. The rest of you don't exist under the law. These are terrible weaknesses, that we are addressing the very powerful to be owners and others, the middlemen, the lower ones, we consider them zero. That's terriblely negative. We said, then, that we do not give the Church, the municipalities, the social players, as they give out to spread the blog and check on the pimp. That's the one. And, secondly, we say, "All cash. Don't you have one? Out.’ So we limit the property to five, ten Greeks. And a third risk that I personally see is that they can come and come'monkeys', that is to say, to come a company under recommendation - not even to have been established - to take part, to have a guarantee to bring it and get permission if it gives more. Because here's whoever gives most of the money, it's a bidding contest. There is no qualitative criterion. So anyone who gives most of the permits and then fails to comply with the laws on equipment, workers and so on. And says this gentleman after a couple of years that he's retired. But he's got a license. He has denied permission from someone who could have been involved and dignity. These are not just three weaknesses, these are three holes in the law that make him perforated and ineffective. Unless it's the intention of the Minister to make the law not to be observed. In other words, he thinks something like, "I say these in trying to change five things", while on the back mind of the government it is to defer the existing chaos. It could be like that, and I just can't prove it now. I can only suspect. In any case, the fact that in 2015 Churches, municipalities, social bodies, citizens' bodies have no right to the company's blog shows that we are not back, but that we are in the Middle Ages. And I wonder why the Minister who has a value as a human did not see this thing, and in particular the danger of forgiveness being granted to big sins of the past, which are monstrous bank loans, with which everyone will prefer to make a new company under recommendation and which will be closed down. In addition, there is no care for workers. I don't know how many he's got at the moment. The new "MEGA" slowly doesn't take them with two grand. He'll take them with 500 euros. And if they want to. In other words, the new rules in the Memorandum on the recruitment of new ones will apply. So we're also destroying television and radio workers. That's what I don't know if you're worried about. We also tabled an amendment, which the Minister considered to be late. I don't know what's time-consuming and what's late. Do we have 50 years of chaos here and for an hour, can it be something late if it recommends to the best? I don't understand. With a meeting, will we put an end to a case and start a new period?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u698	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u699	What criteria will this new period begin? Who gives the most? Is that the criterion in Greece of 2015? Who gives most of the licenses? Mrs. Angelopoulou, Mr. alpha, Mr. Beta, because she has the millions? Is that the philosophy of the Left? Is that what you're doing with the new spirit? We would like to vote, ladies and gentlemen. I declare it one more time. We would like to, because the Central Association did not enter this Chamber in order to make the conduct of the JRC and the Golden Dawn and to say 'no' to everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u700	What do you propose, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u701	Didn't you vote 'yes' in principle, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u702	What about us? Have we voted 'yes' in the first place? And at the end and, unfortunately, we say 'no'. We said we would vote one, two, three articles. Our amendment concerned important things, such as being medium-sized. We're putting a price of 10 million euros. Latsy's gonna take the licenses. He's gonna take one and the other. Couldn't three others give the dose per year? Has it not occurred from this application that there may also be small people who wish to participate in the information work? That didn't cross your mind! So the main goal is to dive from the five. But by ditching them out of the five, we'll have them on our necks. Taking money - we're supposed to - to cover the checks of the memorandum, we'll have the pimps on the neck of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u703	Thank you, Mr Leventis. Mr Constantine Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u704	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because we are coming to an end to the debate, I would like to prioritise a few unanswered questions and, if I may, to make a few political matters. Before that, however, I would like to respond to the comparison made by many Members - particularly the Coupling - to the law of the main shareholder with the current one. Don't compare unparalleled cases and unparalleled times. The bill at that time did not degrade either the independent authorities or the PSE and did not allow, at that time, one or two members of the Ministerial Council to gather all powers over them. This is to explain and put things on the right basis. The first question, therefore, which has not been answered sufficiently, is this: why does the government want a restricted and limited number of permits? Many Members have said that the possibility offered today by technology enables a large number of television stations to operate. Why, then, do we not set here the conditions for leaving competition free, always in a strict context, with clear rules, so that those who manage to meet them, operate a channel? This question is even more acute with the second question: why does the government not tell us the number of licences it will give, but the price? Why doesn't he tell us the most basic thing, so when will he do that? Will he do it in six months, in a year? So how can this bill have so many details, but does it not have the most basic, that is to say, to tell us how many permits will be granted, when will it be given and what will be the amount of the start? So you're forcing us, even if we think in good faith, to make some cases and to think that perhaps these magical numbers are hidden, because in addition to this procedure there are other procedures that are obsolete. Question 3: Why so much power in the hands of a few people? Would it not be reasonable and democratic, if you wish, for the PSE to have that role and not the two Ministers? So where are the institutional counterweights or the control and balance systems to be found in a modern European parliamentary democracy? It seems to me, therefore, that democracy is less concerned here, but power is more important. Question 4: How can this bill even come at this time without a basic consultation with the European Commission? Nobody wonders: Have we learned nothing from the mistakes of the past? Can we not see that it is clearly contrary to some European principles? Three issues have already been raised, issues affecting the independence of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, issues relating to the possible state aid to the ERT-net, and issues relating to the distortion of competition rules. The Commission - and we must all know it in this Chamber - is on its own initiative as guardian of the European treaties that this country has voted on, not following questions from individuals. And I say this to know some basic things in this Parliament about how we operate in Europe. I am afraid, therefore, that the anti-European partners you still have in SYRIZA have not abandoned you and, unfortunately, they are on the surface at every opportunity. Question 5: What is the government's problem with the independent authorities? You are singing the ERC's responsibilities and, on the other hand, you are attacking the members of the EMCDDA. You are obviously inconvenient about the idea of having independent authorities that decide on critical issues beyond the control of the executive. But here again, there are the European conditions that will not allow you to do so. To close, I am sure, as has been said many times in this House, that in the media over the past twenty-five years there has been an irresponsible structure, an extremely problematic landscape where complexity and corruption have taken uncontrolled proportions. The same thing, however, is that this bill does not deal with the problems. On the contrary, it adds to them. So our proposal is simple: create a transparent system for the functioning of the media in the context of European legality. Step one: Upgrade ESS. And you can do that with financial selfishness and reward fees. Step two: Remove the superpowers that the Minister has. Which country do we have such a regime? No one. Step three: Set clear, fair, strict, but realistic, rules and then let the market function. Step four: Ensure quality and not just economic criteria. Why not introduce multi-factor or multi-collective criteria that exist in other European countries? These are the steps. It's just that you, even now, can do it. We will say 'no' to totalitarian practices, 'no' to uncontrolled powers, 'no' to the downfall of anyone who says 'yes' to the fair and strict framework, 'yes' to the democratic functioning of the independent authorities and 'yes' to pluralism, so that competition in this country may once function, for the benefit of many, not the few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u705	Thank you to Mr Constantine Karamanlis and to respect time. Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos has the floor from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR for six minutes. To make sure that we are as consistent in time as possible, because it is only one hour - the ministers are talking in between - to complete the process. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u706	Thank you, Mr President. I, ladies and gentlemen, have heard so much about the interlocutory and the oligarchs, I have to tell you that I have been quiet. Because we are at the end of the debate and the Minister of National Defence, who once again gave a victorious battle against interests, I broke my speech because I think it is not necessary. We're quiet now! Mr. Kammenos must, however, tell us where he was in 2005 when Mr. Karamanlis and Mr. Rusopoulos canceled the competition for television licences. Which government was the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u707	PASOK!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u708	He also has to tell us why they broke up with Mr. Gianakopoulos. Have they ruined sharing? Because, apart from the evidence he presented to us here, which blessed them through the site he has and this Mr. Tsipras, and now he fights them, I know that shortly before the election Mr. Kammenos won him in the PPA and told him the best, he exchanged gratitudes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u709	Hugs, selfies photos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u710	Hugs, kisses. Well, it doesn't convince us, ladies and gentlemen, this rhetoric. She's a fake. Very much, and more when it is called by people - and I am not referring to the majority of SYRIZA Members - who are manufacturers of conspiracy theories by system and have thus emerged in politics. We don't have to tell details. They're familiar with this. We're a small place. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, the question raised and I believe that the simple world in it wants an answer is this: Can the political system, which is responsible for what has been going on for twenty-five years now, at some point - even now - speak frankly and make a fair account of this twenty-five years? And as a result of this fair account, we can see whether we can agree on the basic principles to protect the goods of pluralism, information, transparency in public life and, ultimately, democracy itself. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this fair valuation says that we all have responsibilities and no one is from virginity. It reminded a colleague here from SYRIZA earlier - I'm sorry I can't remember her name - who said when the permits were granted. On 28-8-89. Another orator reminded the names of the signatories. Did those names tell you anything? But they're not PASOK Ministers. And, of course, I would remind you again - because I asked Mr Kammenos - that in 2003 the Shiite Government, following the President-in-Office's decree that laid down the procedure, issued authorisations. And I said who suspended her. I would also remind you of the effort made by the PASOK government in 2001 at the request of Parliament, to safeguard the main shareholder by law. What Mr Ministers told you earlier, Mr. Venizelos, that you now recognize it in the law. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we see the hugging of today's majority by the media, mornings, evenings, compliments, "welcome", "what you do", "how you are", "how you are", "how you are", "how you are" and "congratulations"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u711	Don't they welcome you? What's your name? Did you get a bad idea?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u712	Don't laugh. Do you want me to tell you names from both the present and the absent of the House? So the responsibilities for us all to take on, and especially those who were the petty children and the predicted ones. And they're not just in our party and in the New Democracy, they're on your side. And now see if we can agree on general principles so that we do not get lost through the provisions and articles. What is the first general principle? That there will be no monostate, that is, the Minister, who will deal with everything and that there will be no transparent tender procedure, that is to say, one licence and the other one. That we're going to guarantee the denomination of those who're coming off the streets. Mr. Venizelos suggested the procedure. With a certificate. Not'may', Minister. When an international audit firm comes out, who are shareholders and interests. And let's agree. That is our intention. That's how we came here. We don't want people entering the media to run the test or some other people to run the test. If you do not accept these, it means that you have other goals than those you declare. To maintain the situation itself, the cost and the transaction. And since our proposals are mature and realistic, you have taken some steps. But you did not do what is necessary to get us to agree on everything. And I shall end, ladies and gentlemen, with a reference to regional channels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. It has been said by many colleagues - it was said by our rapporteur - and the question has been raised why you are levelling the regional stations, which are not related to the fewer people or are dependent on the capital formation. It depends on its relationship with local communities, the promotion of local issues, culture, collective claims and wherever there is political and social life. Because the central channels - I am a Member of the province - are mentioned in the province if there is any major natural disaster, earthquake, flooding, fires. And they tell you that you're leveling them, because you don't recognize this offer. And we called on you to exclude them from the law, to have a substantial debate, as you have now excluded, at the pressure of the House, OTA channels. These middle-government provisions that came, they don't solve the problem. You'll keep them hostages too. I put forward, Mr President - to finish - the memorandum of regional stations, whose logic and perception has been supported by the majority of Parliament, by the Co-Pluralism and Opposition. And it asks me how the government when the whole House says, "Outside the regional channels to have a separate debate", it does not accept it. What purposes does it have? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u713	Thank you, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, MP of the PASOK-DMAR Democratic Association. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor, the head of the party, Potami, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u714	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be brief, so as to make it easier for the government that is forced to clash with the conflict and is not being held back. When the draft law was published in July, we told the government that, "You do not fight the complexion, giving all the power for television licences to a Minister". The reasons are obvious. What I'm going to say is old. It's heard, but I'll say it again. The complication is like the tango. It takes two: the business associate and the interconnected minister. A bad businessman with a lot of money and a willing minister with great power. And in the background, of course, there is always an interlinked instrument to force the Minister and the government to take the convenient decisions for the businessman. After twenty-five years of private television, the scene is dark and it is a common admission of all. Some television companies owe millions to the banks. And there are a lot of questions, because some injurious media companies are still being licensed by the banks. Some channels have supported and are based on the complexion, today with one another, tomorrow with each other. One day with a prime minister the next day with his successor. An image of dependency and indifference of information on political purposes. Somehow - and this is a great responsibility - the credibility of the media in our country has been lost. Citizens are unable to see the intertwined media entrepreneurs from the serious ones. Because there are them too. They can't see the investors from the predators. And that is another reason why we need to conflict and neutralise the conflict, to build a new relationship of citizens' confidence with the media. But, ladies and gentlemen, there will always be bad businessmen who unfairly push a government. The solution is that there should be rules, that there should be healthy competition on the market, and that decisions on the functioning of the media are not taken by the ministers, but by people outside the political system, Mr Papa. That is why the independent authorities have been created in the politically civilized world. France, which is also fashioned, guaranteed the independence of the independent authorities in 1984. I must tell you, Mr Pappa - I do not know if you have had time to tell your fellow ministers who came here yesterday - that there for television licences - in France - the decisive competence is at the National Audiovisual Council, in their own PSE. Your government has here, as in almost all other issues, an inappropriate theory. You say "we will fight the strife" by strengthening the queen of the interlocutory. I told you there was the cavalier, the bad businessman, the intertwiner. There's the queen, the intertwined minister. So instead of withdrawing from the scene of the queen, we're strengthening it. We're making her more attractive. According to the law proposed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government: 'The Minister decides the number of licences'. 'The Minister shall fix the auction price...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u715	Starting price.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u716	'The Minister shall determine the minimum share capital for regional channels'. 'The Minister determines the number of workers'. 'The Minister also defines the qualifications of workers'. In short, the Minister is the highest authority on television. He decides who emits and where he emits. You have just filed the bill officially on Monday, I told you that it is against our country at the moment that we have a Canadian Minister and that public life should go or be at risk of being involved. And these days in Potami, the MPs have pointed out a lot of what we could do. Specific proposals. I will not tell you any details, but I will tell you the title: Strengthen the role of the constitutionally-binded PSE and limit the role of the Minister. Of course, it wasn't just the river. We've just been ready to fight and prepared since July. The Members of Parliament from all parties have told you. The employers' organizations, workers' organizations and scientific bodies have told you. People from Europe have told you. The PSE itself told you what is left of the PSE. Because it is true, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that no government - and not only yours - has loved the independent authorities in this country. I have to say to the comrades of PASOK and New Democracy that the New Democracy and PASOK now appear to defend the role of the independent authorities, but in the years of their almightyness, they fought or undermined or ignored the independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u717	When did we hurt the ERR?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u718	The PSE has had a hard time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u719	We never did. Who do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u720	Allow me. The PSE could also have strengthened the previous governments to play a decisive role in the regulation of the television scene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u721	It was backed up! It was very good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u722	New Democracy didn't do it, it didn't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u723	Nothing's hurting the ERR.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u724	But we're going to today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u725	Don't take a vacation, please. Go on, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u726	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pappas claims - and I am surprised - that the role of a wheelchair in the complex is "go away, you come" and tries to do exactly what many of his predecessors have done, that is, trying to control the conflict. For his benefit? For the benefit of his government? This will prove to be on the way. It is trying to govern the new regime with new interconnectors, with new canals dependent on the Minister or the old intertwiners who will have pilgrimed the power of the new regime. This is obviously what SYRIZA considers to be the tool for its long-term remit to power. The same mistake were other political leaders in the past, that if they define and regulate the issues of interlocutory, they will remain in power for many years, "to have our own channels, our own people to protect us in the difficult days, in the difficult hours". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This law, Mr Pappa, is at the foot without any study, without any European orientation, without any provision for the technological developments that are coming. The legislator is obviously staying in 2007 and it is common secret that many parts of this law are a copy of Mr Rusopoulos's previous law, which you incidentally voted against at that time. You added, of course, some state-run touches. In any case, the Minister's superpowers should be aware that they are part of the problem of interacting and not part of the solution to the problem of interacting. What's the river saying? He says that on this course, we don't want to have any involvement. We gave you an opportunity, bold of us, because we had previous negative signs of your behaviour. We said, however, "yes" in principle, to conflict with the complexity, to separate the day from the television production, which many people, workers and businessmen of the media demand, because it is not all the same, because the complexity agrees that it is one of the biggest problems in the country, perhaps our biggest institutional time-consuming problem. Society plays with marked cards and at the end of the day winners come almost always the same. This also applies to public media, public works and public procurement, and any exceptions that exist simply confirm the rule. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to finish. I'd like two more minutes. Thank you. It is clear that they have caught many posts and easily traded with the ministers and finally as a singer has said: 'Everything around is changing and everything is staying'! Let me pass on to you, Mr. Pappa, what some of the Left say. You go to an auction, anyone who gives most will be able to get a channel and if five to six foreign businessmen come and give some millions will be able to buy the Greeks' knowledge and opinion. Article 15 of the Constitution speaks of objective and equal conditions for the transmission of information and news and of products of speech and art. So how do you - and some of your comrades ask - give a public good to a Greek or foreign person on the only criterion if he is rich and only on the criterion if he wants to be or does the Minister not want him? One more thing. When do you expect, Mr Pappa, - and tell the House today - that all this will be over and that the new licences will have been issued to the new channels? Give us a date. Because I think you're just going to a law that you know will be long delayed to implement. When will the PSE change? What's your direction? What's your proposal? What kind of faces are you suggesting? I would remind you that there have also been two notices of authorisation in the past, in 1998 and in 2002, which they sailed, not because of appeals. I'm afraid that's what will happen with your own clipboard law, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u727	Please complete, Mr. Theodorakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u728	I'll be done. But I think that's none of your business if the law is to be implemented. You are not seeking regulation, otherwise you would have heard many of the proposals that we and the other parties have made. You want, I think, a law that is enthusiastic so that the Minister's interpretation is always needed, so that the Minister's favor can always be needed. This is what I think is the humble design of SYRIZA - ANEL, to set up their own regime. And their moves in other areas of politics, tax controls, justice, police, education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u729	Mr. Theodorakis, you've crossed the line. Please close your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u730	Please let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u731	Do not complain, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken four minutes more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u732	The ministers have arrived and the twenty-two minutes have arrived.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u733	I always get the presidents when they decide to be too strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u734	The other leaders and the ministers took eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u735	Let me finish. So I was saying that I think your humble design is to establish a regime that can control the situation in the midsts. Everywhere, that is, you want to be the main shareholder. As you can see, in this catastrophe, we cannot be with you. It'll be you, it'll be your partners, and we'll be across the street. In other words, we are voting against your bill, because we are here to support the country and not to support a new regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u736	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u737	Mr. Pappas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u738	I am sorry, Mr Theodorakis, that you have decided to vote against the bill in principle. We had another picture - with the same provisions obviously - from the course of the debate. I just want to say this: we must not have the debate going around a trial of intent. And if you were still there, I would ask you to document it. I repeat for once: what the government can judge is the number of licences and the starting price, neither who remains nor who leaves nor what will be done, and what exactly the specifications will be. You also mentioned some things that are absolutely inaccurate. Neither for specializations shall the Minister decide either on the number of workers nor on the minimum capital. These are provisions of the bill and the House decides. The government is suggesting. So I think that these things should not be used, because it is inaccurate. Were you in Spain, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Theodorakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u740	In Spain, therefore, because you mentioned the example of France, the Ministry is directly licensed. If this is where you choose to use these designations for this legislation, Spain what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u741	With a binding role for the PSE of Spain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u742	Okay. Look at it again, don't you? In both Italy and Luxembourg and Finland, yesterday I made the report, they are tabled in the Minutes. I invite you to look at them again. So, in conclusion, I fully respect your position that you want to vote against the bill. There is a roll-call vote. Please for two things. Vote for the auction and for the change to the PSE. Let us all prove together from tomorrow that we mean, at least in principle, that we want to put clean rules and logic in this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u743	Mr President, I request the floor. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u744	Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u745	We have no objections. But you also accept, Minister, that it is the Minister's decision or the Minister's decision to do so. Here I can read you a very large list of the things the ministers will define in the TV map, including the specialties in the channels. I don't want to tire this House, but the register is here. He'll be with the Minister's FDA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u746	And at the General Secretariat, you'll put the chiefs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u747	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. On behalf of SYRIZA, Member of Parliament, Mr Simeon Ballis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u748	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know, in fact, why it is annoying that we should finally have a class in the television scene, that we should have rules of operation, that we should finally have transparency in the way we grant licences, that we should go to the counter. It's supposed to be this class that we want to put in with this law before that, and in 2007, and much more the previous law, v. Regulation (EC) No 2328/1995. In fact, however, what they sought was to consolidate the abundance in the space. Because in Greece, when even to open a kiosk, you have to have legal permission, strangely enough to run a television station, you don't have to have a legal licence, because for twenty years there has been a system of inter-compatibility that has been in place for everyone and the governments that held the channels hostage by renewing their licenses, in order to have a mild behaviour from the stations, wards and canalarchs, who have not been paying for a shop, which also played a political role, in order to force journalisticly for the benefit of others, at the same time as their own business interests, but also financially rewarded them. We had a legal interdependence. We had "Aerobic" laws, which, apart from the channels, bolted other airplanes in the space. And I'm talking about aeronautics. Previous laws provided for the distribution of advertisements via media shops, with a fee close to 10% of the turnover, with winning intermediaries, sharing advertising and especially state advertising. Today, however, we aspire to pass the law on the regulation of the landscape from the law of the various barons in the field of the press. You will allow me, because a lot has been heard and several positions have been made, to insist on the particular part of the bill on regional channels. I've heard a lot of colleagues' positions on the subject. I have read and heard the improvements made by the Minister. Everything is on the conditions they enter for the operation of regional channels. Of course, in all the speeches I heard referred to as regional channels. Don't get confused, it's not local channels. These will be the subject of another law. Do not confuse ourselves because we see it from home, from our constituency, a channel is not local. We're talking about regional channels. This means that they are channels covering a wider geographical area, at least the geographical area of three, four and sometimes five counties. Don't make such a misunderstanding. Their programme, therefore, both in terms of content and the requirements of technological equipment, for it to come out properly, is increased. As a content I would remind you of the duration of the transmission of regional information channels, they have eighteen-hour daily broadcasts and twelve-hour non-information channels. They have at least one hour news reports a day with prototype, primary journalistic material and 30% are local issues exclusively of interest. This means adequate staff coverage, both in journalistic and technical staff of various specialties. I would point this out for the persistence that exists in reducing the minimum number of workers. In other words, we are talking about a minimum of programmatic completeness that these channels must have if we want to talk about channels of serious quality and not about what we have in printed journalism, which we call 'printed paper bag'. That is where we should have a serious regional newspaper, because there are distortions in the press as well as in the press. There is the need, Minister, for a law, which we need to see soon, because there are distortions in the press that need to be corrected, there are weights that need to be removed, and I am happy to see that the Minister for Justice is here, because we need to see in particular what is termed 'formal' law in the press. I understand the concern of the financial costs, but there are solutions to finance the regional channels, in addition to the corrections made by the Minister. For example, the number of regional channels - and I am ending with information. However, this obligation on non-information can be reduced, since there will be no obligation for a higher number of journalists to work. We also need to see other arrangements, such as a less rent for digital broadcasting, particularly in the bouquet made by the ERT subsidiary, and much more a relief measure, will finally be to ensure that legality is respected and 30% of public advertising is shared in the region's media, which is not happening until this day. There will also be a detailed plan for sustainability and an operational plan for a decade, because we need to ensure that channels, information, the movement of ideas, culture and entertainment are not controlled by one or a few canals, but controlled by society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u749	Thank you, Mr. Simeon Ballis, SYRIZA MP. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, has the floor. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u750	Ladies and gentlemen, the area of information in recent years, not to say in the last few decades, is an area of major change and technological change from the point of view of how to exercise information and how to control - I would say - information. Even when information becomes a field of business, the quality of information depends very much on the quality of entrepreneurship. And this is one of the big changes that we all live through. I have heard a lot of references on this issue, on complexity and so on, but I think we need to look at this more specifically, because it may be more difficult than it seems to be. The government is attempting by this bill a section. And the section is that it tries to change the information system with a view to its quality and democracy in it, while trying to change the entrepreneurship model, and I think so we need to understand the effort that is being made. Of course, there is a question of principle here. There is also a matter of specific regulations. The question of principle is whether the parties agree that this system that we have today is not a democratic system, but is not a sustainable one. It places enormous burdens on society, taking into account the enormous lending that exists, but also on the workers. So the issue begins with an agreement that this system needs to be changed. And that would have a vote on the bill at first. From there on, there are arrangements for discussion. It will be difficult for parties to vote against at first to convince society that they are voting against at first and at the same time do not want the current system to exist. The vote in principle in practice means that there is the same system and that will be very painful if it happens - and I hope it will not. Of course, I would like to emphasise that all the things that are being heard about the need for the market, for the institutions to function, for competition to function are very nice to see as a prospect, but we must not get away from what is happening today, what has happened so far and why it has happened and what will make the change from tomorrow morning. It is not some people's problem - at least in my view. They're not just favored by this system. It's not some individual scandal, sporadic, it's a system that works healthyly against others. Nor are some individual laws that should change. It is a system of power that has been formed in our country. It is a system based both on formal, institutional and informal relationships of interest which have been built for years or decades. That's why a systemic change is needed. This law is part of a broader plan that we have. To change things, the political system must change itself. We need to change the banking system. The entrepreneurship model needs to be changed. Only in such a context will this law work. A component of this system cannot be proven enough. So you will allow me to make a brief reference to what I have heard you say many of you about the complexion, pointing out some - to allow me the term - material dimensions, specific dimensions. The first dimension is the lending of information enterprises. We don't have any exact evidence. Some data published seem to be close to reality and it says that these companies' debts exceed one billion euros. It is more than a billion euros. You'll say, why is it a problem? Many companies borrow and pay off their debts in the process. The problem here is that most media companies have a negative net position. They've lost their capital after a series of loss-making uses. So we are talking about borrowing and unscrupulously, and this Parliament must know about it. In most cases these loans will not be repaid. And I would expect greater sensitivity from the parties in this regard, namely, as to what is going to happen with this problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u751	That's another thing the Minister said. The Minister said they'd been taken care of.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u752	We have "vabir" businesses, i.e. businesses - not only in the information sector but, more generally, in the economy - which live if they are borrowed. The first dimension, therefore, is lending. Banks are no longer corporate lenders. The banks are the real capital holders of enterprises. There's a question if all this was legal. I will not go into that. There's been an investigation of what we know from justice. The second dimension concerns revenue from media enterprises, which is a key element of advertising. And here, however, we do not have a complete picture, because, unfortunately, the banks do not have a clear-cut system. Banks, in other words, do not post somewhere to know how many sponsorships they do and where, on which channels or on which sites they grant funding. When a site, for example, shouts out: 'Down the hands of the bankers!', it does so because it believes in it or is there a sponsorship behind it, which has these screams in exchange for it? The unofficial evidence, however, shows that this is an interesting conclusion. In many cases banks do not only give loans, but with the advertising they give the channels they also cover much of the interest on the loans they give. In other words, a closed system is being formed. We have businesses, which are done with loans, and in some cases we also have loans in these companies to be served by lenders, i.e. banks. That was definitely in the good times. Now it's happening to a lesser extent. The third dimension is the transaction of this system with the political and party system. One would expect from the parties who served this system, which was part of the system, to be more honest. Mr. Koutsoukos invoked it, but I heard nothing. So here we have banks to provide businesses with loans and revenues. And, of course, what do businesses offer? They're offering protection. This also extends to the party and political system. Because the whole system of power, as I said, wants political legitimacy, wants laws, wants political decisions, wants decrees. That is a little - very much the system we have today, for which I must add that the troika has not pushed towards change, but has protected it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] With your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. We will see this in a few days' time when we are discussing the recapitalisation, that is, how the Troika and the Greek governments protected this system that I have just described.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u753	You too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u754	Now, as Mrs. Vulture says, we will do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u755	No 'you'll do'. You're doing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u756	Mrs. Vuldesis, wait a minute to see. The argument...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u757	You'll do the same. You've already accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u758	Stop, Mrs. Vulture. It's embarrassing what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u759	Let's answer if they're with the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u760	Thirty years you've been ruling and you want answers in five months?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u761	The argument, therefore, that this government may also be like the previous ones and in the Caliph's position to put another caliph, is a burgers to hide the support they give to the present system of interaction. [[Applause]] Because I have heard Mr Leventis speak about the values of the Left and our philosophy, we believe that, once it has become a business game and information, pluralism of information can be better supported by pluralism of the forms and the information providers. We are therefore in favour of a pluralist system in which there are public and private bodies, but also cooperatives and other co-operators. If the EUR 8.000,000 in the draft law is considered to be high or forbidden, I am sure that the Minister or the government will even consider it following the application of this law. For example, we could see other criteria. And here there's a dialogue field. For example, the ‘loans-to-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-for-all’ criterion may be more useful, in the sense of getting relatively easy in the system, but there should be strict control over who they do, who do not comply with the laws, rules, etc. I therefore believe that those who want to start changing the system that we have today, which everyone denounces, imposes one vote at first and then, of course, has the power to formulate different views if they consider it appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u762	Thank you, Mr. Drasakis. Let us move on with some Members and take the floor for the Heads of State or Government. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes, even though I know you're talking a lot. Every time you're doing a hell of a lot of time. Now it does not take us at all, because in twenty-five minutes we will have to finish and we need to speak to the Presidents of the parties, ministers and MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u763	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking for the second day in plenary of this House about a crucial bill, a bill with many extensions, political, social, economic, cultural. It is a bill, which one might say is not primarily about the citizen and society, because society and citizens are more interested in red loans, HISPIA, pensions, wages, their everyday lives. Yet this bill significantly affects public life. Ladies and gentlemen, many questions arise from this bill. It is true that reforms in the broadcasting landscape and in the area of digital media are needed. We need to rationalise this market without any shadows being left behind. Entrepreneurs must stop for their maximum profit to be locked in power games. It is for any reason that it cannot and must not act at the expense of legitimacy. We therefore need transparency everywhere, inconsistent and objective manner of licensing, without doors and windows for political purposes. That is why the government must do all it can to get a broad consensus. We have called for three institutional changes as a Democratic Incorporation. First change: To limit the Minister's monostate as described in Article 2 of the bill. Second change: Incorporating new technological developments as detailed in the PSE report. Do not forget that we are in the 21st century, in the era of digital television and soon in the era of the single digital market. Third and last change: Protect the prestige and nature of the independent authorities. The independent authorities cannot be dismantled because they are no longer independent. We invite you to accept the changes we propose. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 gives the Minister overpower. There are too many powers concentrating on one person. Thus, pluralism is not promoted. The device is anachronistic. Here's the collective organs at last. Give responsibilities to the National Broadcasting Council. The Minister can't decide to do the pope's infallibility. There is no other model in Europe. I remember the Prime Minister saying some time ago: 'Public broadcasting will not become a vehicle for propaganda, cultural decline and a mechanism for customer services'. Unfortunately, however, in Article 2 with the Minister's superpowers, licences become a propaganda vehicle, a customer service mechanism. You have not anticipated technocratic criteria. How will there be the objectivity you invoke? Minister, the regional channels have many peculiarities which you do not take into account. Place starting price by category of auctioned permits. Make it easier for anyone to enter the space without criteria. Regional channels are levelled. You cannot deal with them like national channels and economic power dominate. Regional TV stations produce work, promoting and promoting regional development. Take this seriously into account. It is not only economic criteria and experience and know-how cannot be taken into account. The same applies to the minimum capital to be paid. Otherwise, the same arrangements apply to national channels, leading regional instruments to exclusion. We as a Democratic Assent call for the withdrawal of the provisions concerning regional channels and for them to come with another bill. After all, that is a requirement of almost all parties. Prove, then, that you want consensus and understanding. These issues are not solved by a legislative improvement that leaves many questions. Minister, good, you demand denomination of shares, but not for foreign companies. Many of the exceptions provided for, so many that blurs the landscape. Today, we know who each licence belongs to. With your proposal, we will lose every guarantee of transparency. At this point, I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister was talking about hijackings, which made their money abroad, and now we are being shaken off. And here is the question: How is it ensured by this bill that these companies will not come from the back door? So we're missing control. It is, of course, a positive development that the National Broadcasting Council is given the opportunity to instruct qualified accountant companies to give an opinion on each candidate. It is not clear, but here too, when the National Radio Board will be able to make this use and when it is not. Otherwise, everyone will be able to say that you are building new customer fireplaces, new financial centers. Minister, you say you want to step on the complex. We see with all this that you are extending it. So many wonder. Because the channels, all these stone years in our country have favored you, you and your word have reproduced, you have been promoted, you have been promoted, and antimony, demagogy and populism. Now, of course, you are in front of you, because now you are on the way to realism and reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Article 9, you bring about a legislative improvement to determine the number of employees by ministerial decision. But on what criteria? In what context will the ministerial decision be initiated? You're bringing in a new piece of legislation, trying to set preconditions. Be specific about how to judge, for example, the geomorphology of the regional zone and clarify the foggy landscape. In conclusion, I would like to say that another major issue is the independent authorities that are institutionally counterweighted, but the government is turning them into servants of the respective Minister. So tell us what you're gonna do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, you must accept the three changes we propose. This bill especially needs consent. We expect you to tell us your own actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u764	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mrs Ey Caracosta will speak first from SYRIZA, and then the President will speak, Mrs Gender. They can't talk in order two of the same party, as you understand. Mrs Karakota, as soon as possible, if you have the kindness, because we are finally coming to an end and there are still a few Members to speak. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u765	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome everyone who is in this Chamber today. I really wanted to start with the JRC's colleagues, but no one is here. But it is worth mentioning the speech by Mr Pafile, who at least thirty times mentioned the word 'capitalism'. And I wonder on the left: should we never fight capitalism? Is he invincible? So, should we not move towards him? I'm just putting in a question. On the same side I have listened with pleasure to Mrs Canelli, who today did not put the word capitalism into her mouth and really spoke about technical issues, which she connected with her political viewpoint, and I am pleased about that. I just have to answer that these issues can then be seen. Because as she said: 'In practice we will see these.' So whatever problem is created, here we are to see it again, to talk about it again. Why are we desperate? Why don't we start something? In what? In this bill we're voting on today. And I really come to ask myself about the side of the New Democracy, from which I have heard some arguments, for example, 'we are fighting healthy entrepreneurship'. Is it possible for the New Democracy to fight that this bill does not serve healthy entrepreneurship? If, in other words, we do not open up the concept of competition, which you support, of the free market, which you support and which we do with this bill, I do not understand, I do not understand how consistent you are with your ideology, not with us. You have wondered and worried about channel workers. But we put a number on national channels and working conditions for workers. I don't understand why you didn't worry when you closed the ERT for two thousand workers. You're out of your mind again. These are a few points that I stress in order to understand the consistency we have from our thinking. You told us many of the speakers in the New Democracy that we were bringing this bill to ash in the eyes of the citizens in order to pass the difficult bills. And that means this bill is a bill that the Greek people want. So we do well and vote for it, anyway. These are really a few points to be seen in order not to be exposed to politics itself. And the third, of course, more important, which justifies you to react, is the point that we really separate canals from contractors. The Canalan ruler cannot claim the contractor's claim, in order to keep his eye on the political leadership of this place, to make an exchange of work and advertising. I'll excuse you. It is true that the status you have served so far was in favour of contractors, so you do well and you support it. That's what you're consistent with. And now let's go to the Potami, which I don't understand why until yesterday it was positive and it's now separating itself. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] It's true that time has passed. I'm not going to deal with the river. I mean that really at the points I mentioned before, this bill is very positive, it is very good for the start. We put evidence of moral order. Of course there are issues in the field of television and television, and we must then see them. I wanted, however, - and I will not go on with this part - to say that it is a very positive amendment that Mr Friends has brought today. The Heads of the parties I have heard have not mentioned, but this part, on the issues of education, has not been mentioned by the substitutes to the permanent and our budget since this year and a little since the year has been able to fill the gaps, is very important. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you. I'm not taking any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u766	Thank you, Mrs. Caracosta. Mrs Fofi Birthday, President of the Democratic Alliance, has been speaking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u767	Ladies and gentlemen, do we believe in legitimacy? Do we want democratic functioning and transparency? Do we want the broadcasting scenery to be cleared? We call 'yes' and we are absolutely absolute in that. And we are not saying it now to those who are likely to say: 'Now you remember it?' We tried it in 2003, proclaiming the relevant tender, which was, unfortunately, cancelled by the next government and its choices, of the then government of New Democracy. We need a new framework, but completely compatible with the European acquis, with European law, adapted to modern technological developments. Unfortunately, today we are going to have another opportunity for all of us together, Minister, to have a major reform. You have not made the necessary improvements and changes, you have not adopted our reasonable and self-evident proposals, and in this way you have not allowed a large majority to be formed today. It is necessary for the government to convince its intentions to be honest. Your bill overlooks all new technological developments. Digital platforms have so far overthrown restrictions on the number of licences granted. We are, Minister, in the digital age, and you are still moving on the logic of analogue frequencies, where, in fact, the licenses were measured. The government and Parliament have an obligation to lay down rules and to shape the framework. The National Television Council takes over implementation and the market judges its choices. You have ignored the proposals of the competent independent authority and, of course, you have decided on the opportunity to intervene in the composition of all the independent authorities. You, apparently, do not want transparency. You want absolute control. In short, "Manolius changed and put his clothes on." I would like to return to the debate today, and I would like to address the Prime Minister himself. Mr Tsipras, I hope you will be watching from your office - in order to leave all shadows or claims for interest support and for their media intervention in the economic and political field, you must, even now, accept our proposals, because if you want transparency and legitimacy, then you cannot authorize the Minister in white and your closest partner to arbitrarily determine the number of licences. Everyone understands that this provision creates a thermostat of intercomplex, which you say you want to fight. Prime Minister, this provision is also a priest! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Do not tell us, Prime Minister, that the reasoned opinion of the PSE is provided, since you know very well that this can be ignored by the Minister. If you wish, then, to prove that you mean what you are saying, you accept our proposal, instead of a reasoned opinion, that the EPP is in agreement, because it is the independent authority that has the support of the 4/5 of this House, which is not led by the government or by the parties. Here's Rhodes, Mr. Tsipras! As for the legislative improvement, regarding the regional stations, the regulation you bring is worse than the previous one. That's why we invite you to withdraw her from this bill. Clear things! Ladies and gentlemen, once again I had the opportunity at my meeting yesterday with a great friend of our country, President Olad, to discuss critical issues relating to our country and our people and, of course, our common struggles within the framework of the European Socialist Party, to stop Europe's austerity at last. I asked him to continue supporting the efforts of the Greek people to get out of the crisis and the memorials, in accordance with the national strategy we have drawn up over the last five years. I also made it clear that the Democratic Integration, loyal to this national strategy, will continue to support development efforts and reform initiatives, but not fundamental and socially unjust measures, which unfortunately include the third memorandum. Unfortunately, the government is not moving in this direction. It is impossible to negotiate seriously the improvement of the most material and painful for sensitive social groups of measures, which it itself signed. The equivalents that the Prime Minister had electorally announced simply do not exist. The mock goes on! SYRIZA - ANEL Government leads back to dangerous streets in the country. It has no vision and a plan that will improve the investment climate and lead to the creation of new jobs. It leaves small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, indifferent to the huge problems currently encountered by hospitals, schools, social solidarity structures. These do not constitute a left-wing policy. In fact, Mr Tsipras reiterates the impasse policy of the previous seven months. It seeks a political solution from above with unknown conditions and conditions. In the meantime, it is wasteful of time, it is consciously delaying reforms, it does not promote any necessary development initiatives. It's fateful and uncomfortable to the government. It again leaves valuable time to pass. The deficits are widening, unemployment is increasing, opportunities are being lost for the country. This policy leads to the sinking of the economy and to the breaking of the social fabric. It is no coincidence that the outstanding debts increased only last month by 1.5 billion. The euro. If this situation persists, the bill that will come to the citizens next time will be much heavier than the 6.4 billion ECU measures. For this two-year period. He'll be unbearable. And in this case there is no room for other mutations either of the SYRIZA or of Mr. Tsipras. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR rings at the end of the speech bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The worst part, however, is that the government is consciously creating a dangerous separating line, turning a large part of the Greek people towards the rest. He's attempting a new split. This is what the Minister of Education did with his statements on VAT in education. The Minister for Labour and Social Security is doing the same every day. Unfortunately, this is what the Prime Minister himself did. But they forget, firstly, that VAT on education affects income and family budgets not a few rich but hundreds of thousands of families and, among them, many young people studying in the IEKs, trying to qualify and escape the nightmare of unemployment. At the same time, the curiosity and inability of the Ministry of Education has undermined the public school. Secondly, they forget that the increase in VAT from 13% to 23% in the Elderly Care Units is a characteristic act of social analgesia and directly affects the dignity of the elderly. Thirdly, they forget that the government recently imposed horizontal reductions in pensions and low incomes, increasing the health contribution to main and secondary workers. And, of course, he's about to cut off the ESS for the low-retired. It is not rich for a pensioner of 1,000 euros, chiefly and subsidiary, who has been paying his contributions to IKA for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u768	Do they have anything to do with the bill? The bill we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u769	Yeah, the bill we're talking about. We suggested, but the situation every day gets worse. If you don't like what you hear, try to force your Government finally to rule, make decisions, protect both popular layers and middle class. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Stop hiding behind the committee that you have appointed and come, as we have asked you, to discuss in Parliament what needs to be done about insurance. We say 'no' to the levelling-up of the insurance system, but we say 'yes' to a genuine dialogue on what needs to be done. [[At this point the end of the speech bell of the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR is ringing on several occasions.]] Mr President, I have asked for your tolerance from the outset. The former President of the River spoke thirteen minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked the government not to take a step behind the regulations which were put in place and agreed by the PASOK governments to protect the first home and the auctions. We said it and we did it. You have the responsibility today to continue with this protection. The partners must finally understand and realise that in an economy in recession, unemployment and overtaxation there are many good-faithed citizens who cannot fulfil their obligations and we call on them to stop pushing in the opposite direction, accept the protection of the first residence for poor and medium-sized households. Of course I cannot say here that we have to open up a debate on the poverty line and what'medium income', because, as you and your government are going to do, you will soon be considered a privileged person with a monthly income of EUR 1,000. And, finally, it is not possible, while you are allegedly cutting off for the socially weak, to delay family allowances in six hundred and thirty - five thousand of OGA beneficiaries. At last, pay the allowances! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality behind the words. The government's political choices are seriously damaging both the populace and the middle class. Unfortunately, they are unable to create a positive perspective for the Greek people, they are managing desperation and misery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u770	Thank you to Mrs. Generations, President of the Democratic Reconciliation. Mr Circas has the floor. Mr. Circa, as soon as possible. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u771	How many more will they speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u772	I should like to inform you that from the Members Mrs Marcus remains, two ministers will make a small speech and we will enter the voting process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u773	So we're going to take the vote at 20:00. Mr President, we are from the province. We can't sit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u774	Please. We're going well. Here you go, Mr. Circa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u775	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that, in fact, in the past few days, there has been a constructive dialogue both in the committees and in the House, and this has been seen by the fact that many of the proposals and Members' and parties of opposition have been accepted by the Minister. Indeed, this draft law, which has been tabled since the previous parliamentary term, is a substantial interference in this presently veiled and foggy television scene, with a view to restoring parity and transparency throughout its range. In fact, it is one of our basic electoral commitments to put order on the television scene. It therefore regulates this licensing process for providers of terrestrial free national and regional digital television content and seeks rationalisation and transparency to network providers by resetting their terms and conditions of operation. This is a coherent piece of legislation, which establishes a full legal framework, which governs this issue and is aimed at the core of the necessary project for the democratic reconstruction of the country's institutions. In the context that it sets out, there are barriers to relations between the media and the political and economic system. As other colleagues have said, 'complexation' means this system, rather systems and systems that exploit public money to provide information. They provide information to define the policy, and in turn the policy works and legislates for the benefit of the 'days', that is an economic oligarchy, which the Greek people have ordered us to break. This system has led to the depreciation of the information programme which, without a trace of shame, acted as a propaganda mechanism for the governments concerned. With the agreement of the previous governments, the channels operated monopolistically, with the existence of the institutional framework with temporary licences. The channels have been running with temporary licences for twenty-five years, in this unacceptable way, as other colleagues have said here today. Something similar has been done with the digital switchover to the DIGEA. It was a catastrophe to place Mr. Michalitsis on the relevant committee of the House, because it proves that the auction conducted - and finally the provision of a network to the company - did not practically exclude any other investor. And it is important that the lifting of this monopoly opens the way to pluralism and pluralism and can make a public good estate of all Greeks. We are therefore called upon today to implement our commitment and to put an end to this deadlock and to ensure effective, transparent and orderly operation in the television scenery. The Greek people gave us a clear mandate on 20 September, to collide with the conflict, to set it aside, and this bill confirms our will. Let us not forget that, wherever we were in elections, there was an urgent need for the world, which said to us 'do something with the channels'. But under no circumstances is a bill that is punishable or vengeful. This draft law sets out the legal framework, lays new foundations to ensure the conditions necessary for the democratic reconstruction of this institution. It therefore clarifies the landscape in the property regime and sets out important content providers' obligations for the transparent process of frequency licensing. As a government, we left our mark in the previous parliamentary term by voting on the draft law on the reopening of the ERT on 29 April 2015 and today we continue to work for freedom of speech and expression. I would also like to say the following which many of my colleagues have said before me that this frequency monopoly was also ineffective, since many areas of the country, even in Arta, in the Municipality of Central Jumericos, do not receive the signal and continue to see 'black', because even 1/3 of the broadcasts included in the contract did not have the effect of 'DIGEA'. It was revealing and on this subject the debate on the relevant committees of the House. I close, Mr President, by saying that for us it is a democratic obligation for such a public good to be governed by public rules in accordance with the Constitution and the European principles. The current government is serving another policy and that is what we are trying to implement. That is what democracy demands, that is what the democratic conscience of the citizens is demanding. We want - and we will work hard on this - to put an end to every system or system that has been undermining the public interest for decades, to put an end to the complexion. In this fight, the people are next to us, and on the basis of our determination and effectiveness, they will judge us strictly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u776	Thank you, Mr. Vassilis Tsirkas from SYRIZA. Mrs Catherine Marcou from the river has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u777	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill attempts to regulate and define a class in the specific status of incomplete legality with which private television operates over the past twenty-five to thirty years, a regime which has been maintained by all previous governments and which, without further feeding the transparency and transaction. Although moving in the right direction, there are weaknesses and grey points. But now that this major issue has been raised at the heart of democracy, namely the right of citizens to full, multi-faceted and objective information, we must address all of us together: how to vote on a law that does not really leave shadows or suspicions about the broadcasting landscape and which, if you like, removes from honest professional journalists unfair charges of directed or one-sided information, which can result from a regime of non-transparentness and mistrust. The incision that we are doing today must be clear, acceptable to everyone, and, in addition, to take time. This also includes all objections to the superpowers attributed to the Minister. Of course, I am not talking personally about Mr Pappas, but only about the institutions. It is a basic rule of democracy that the person having the power to decide should and should be subject to necessary controls and institutional counterweights, in security disputes that ensure independence and objectivity. First of all, a crucial element in the legal immunity of the procedure is the legal composition and full functioning of the PSE, the body which the Constitution stipulates that it supervises and controls the broadcasting landscape of the country in the interests of the public interest. The bill, however, gives absolute authority to the Minister for the determination of the number of licences and the starting-up price, which are the most critical points in the process. In fact, with what criteria will the number and price be determined in the digital era of thousands of free satellite channels, especially when the auction is purely auctioning? Whoever gives the most gets the license. So he needs attention at this point. In fact, there is no limit to the Minister's authority. There is no justification for the different criteria of the law. For example, how did we come to the conclusion that the minimum staff required are four hundred and not three hundred? So, CNN should have about four hundred thousand personnel? You don't need all of this. Stay in your supervisory role, which is crucial and, in my opinion, you do not need to be involved in such, technically more, issues. On the other hand, the PSE is transformed into another advisory and management body. Aren't you going to rethink that? In fact, you said, too, but also the PSE itself, that he doesn't have the knowledge to do this job. Then how will he assess the bids tomorrow? How will he give an opinion to the Minister? In any case, we must immediately proceed with the setting up of an EPP with the necessary scientific staff, the infrastructure and all the institutional tools needed to carry out its role properly. This is how the Minister himself - as an institution, I repeat, and not personally you - is protected from any suspicion of any underground transactions, shadows and pressures. I would also like to ask a more general question on the subject of today's bill, but it goes beyond it. We see this loose end lasting for twenty-five years and so many other uncertainties in public life. I wonder who we really want to decide? A minister who may be elected by the people or not? Or is an independent authority, a body designated by the House, but is it actually controlled by the government? The fact is that anyone with the power must also have the responsibility, and therefore they must also be accountable for institutional control. The question also touches on the law on the responsibility of Ministers and the way in which the various independent authorities are chosen and formed. Finally, who regulates broadcasting is a vast example of the inefficient involvement of these two powers. The Minister cannot hide behind the independent authorities nor, of course, vice versa. In view of the possibility for the next House to be a review, I think it is a great political debate that needs to be opened. Finally, I would like to refer to a more specific issue, that of regional and municipal television stations, such as TV100. The sustainability problems they already face make the requirements of the draft law out of reality. Knowing their contribution to the promotion of local issues, for which the large Athens channels often do not have television time, I would like you to see these provisions a little better. To sum up, I would like to say that the opportunity is given - and the circumstances favour it - that there should finally be a substantial change in the field of private television. This debate will show whether this bet can be won in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u778	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. We shall give the floor here to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Katrugalo, for exactly five minutes, because there is too much pressure from the province's MPs to proceed with the vote. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u779	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the Vice-Presidents, I have often felt that they were referring to a virtual bill that has not been tabled, a bill that is not what we are discussing and a virtual reality. I have heard that the responsible Minister is being accused of seeking to become a super-channel, when in fact the only competence reserved to him is to start the tendering process by defining the number of channels to be auctioned and the starting price. And if it was heard that this should be done with a presidential decree! I can't imagine the legal reason. On the other hand, I hear that we are being reproached because the procedure is being delayed and when it will be completed, those who have left the field in the known anarchy and immunity for twenty-five years. I also amazed to hear the same people who have brought ten reductions in pensions to date and who depleted 50% of the pensioners' income, blaming us in advance of a bill that we have not yet brought forward and which we will obviously seek to have an institutional aspect, rationalisation and justice. But, speaking of the complexity, we should have in mind that it is not just about the media but about a situation. The complexion in Greece existed before we had private media, because it goes to the basic way of forming Greek capitalism. In simple terms, the Greek bourgeoisie - scrupulous and weak ideologically - is looking primarily for the state and not the market for the basic way of enrichment. And before we had the media, some were seeking if they were businessmen not by the healthy, not by those who honour their role and are active, exporting, - I am talking about a dominant feature of the Greek bourgeoisie - and attempting to seek political dividends through a special relationship with the state, by way of derogation from the building law regulations, to build a hotel or a great shopping centre, looking through a peculiar protectionism to make money. Finally, through the special lending developed through the state-controlled banks. It is precisely for that reason that this is not just a question of political corruption that it wants two, as I heard the party leader say. It is not a question of a corrupt politician and a corrupt canalarch, but it is a systemic issue that comes to the way in which they are concluded at the top of the political system economic and political interests. So it's not just a question of dismantling the political system. It is essentially a question of distorting the country's productive model. What is happening is what the Vice-President of the Government has already developed in detail, especially in the media field. A triangular relationship, that is, between banks that grant loans - which know they will not get them back - to have control of the instruments - instruments that make use of the political influence they have on their owners to demand other favors from the public, from public contracts to special political treatment. And all this, in a way that actually distorts the character of democracy, of the country, because it distorts the free will of the people when there is an advance campaign of his custody operation. Remember what happened on the eve of the referendum by the chord of the media and this curiously established social alliance that was formed. At the moment, then, what is being done is just the first step, precisely because we are talking about a system of system of system of procedure. And that is precisely why, as has been rightly stressed, the first step - which is now coming to resolve immunity and corruption in the media - to be completed, should have the necessary step later in the banks and finally, the complete cleansing of the landscape between business elites, who have become accustomed to having a privileged relationship with the state, and to state power, because it is not what is commonly called the late neoliberal "Greece the last Soviet democracy". Greece is a classic case of releasing political power from an economic elite, who want not to make their money out of the market but from the special political dividend they draw from the state. That is why corruption and that part of the economic oligarchy must also be concerned, not the healthy businessmen, who actually have us allies when we want to restore healthy competition. But others are right to worry. To know that we have finished with them and the promise we made to the electorate on honest, clear terms of political and economic play will be observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u780	Thanks to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Security.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u781	Mr President, we have had two hours' loose end. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u782	Wait a minute. Mr Athanasios has the floor. Here, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u783	Mr President, our tickets!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u784	As long as it's four minutes, I'll say it from my place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u785	As you wish. You are the last speaker in the House to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u786	I wanted to say that the theory was good, Mr. Katrugale. It's right what you're saying in theory. We all agree. But you should know that this bill is clearly distinguished for its state-run character. Because through the licensing process and the introduction of extremely many terms and formalities for licensing, it is trying to manipulate television media. I say this because the licensing is given by the National Broadcasting Council, but the whole procedure depends on the relevant Minister, since it determines the rate of licences per category, and the start of the tender is determined by a joint ministerial decision of the relevant Minister and Minister of Finance. And it wonders why today, at the time of digital television, which technological capabilities are huge, the number of television licences by the Minister must be determined, and also arbitrarily, without criteria. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that legislation, when laying down regulations or resolving living needs, sets out criteria. Determination of criteria, how the criteria should be applied, whether they are made by ministerial decisions or by presidential decrees. Of course, the Minister made an improvement and made it precedent for the opinion of the National Broadcasting Council. This is of no value to the opinions, because the reasoning is only of value to the decisions, whether they are judicial or administrative decisions regulating matters. And in any case, Minister, the'reasoned' does not say anything. Who will judge whether it is justified? And if he agrees with the Minister, we will always say that it is justified. If he does not agree and is negative, who will say that it is not justified? That is why, if we wanted to be fair and fair to make a law right, it had to say "concordance" and not "reasoned opinion". I wanted to deal with another issue which concerns the legal world. I wanted to ask, Minister, what about the Aegean? Do you intend to only give one licence or more for the whole Aegean, north and south? And if a Greek person does not appear in a auction for any reason and a Turkish person is present, or if a Greek person is present, what will happen? Will a Turkish company take her? Please, I would like an answer to this issue. I would now like to say a few words, Mr President - to allow me - an issue which concerns the legal world, ladies and gentlemen. The President of the Council, the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Commission, the Vice-President of the Commission, the Vice-President of the Commission and the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Commission, the President of the Council and the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Commission, the President of the Council and the President of the Council, the Vice-President of the Commission. At four months' delay, the Vice-Presidents' choices were made to all three courts of the country and the President of the Court of Auditors. There was something unprecedented, which had no precedent in post-medical Greece, and neither did the dictatorship dare to take such a dip in the yearbook. The Court of Auditors, the Council of State and the Marios Ice have been omitted. Ten virtues were excluded from becoming Vice-Chairmen, nineteen advisors were received from the Court of Auditors and thirteen advisors were received at the Council of State. Mr. Justice Minister is here, and I imagine that, if he wants, he can give an explanation. It's the unprecedented thing that never happened again. I would like to remind you that, with these divestments in this year's joint admission of legal, lawyer and judges, you are trying to manipulate justice in a way and to give a message that there are no futures for those who are not good for the government, Minister. They overlook, however, the self-evident fact that, in other words, the independence and high mentality of the Greek judges, they have protected and maintained the difficult times that our country is experiencing - Mr Papaioannou, Mr Rupakiotis and the speakers - who have respected the year round. What has happened is unprecedented and, of course, I believe that both the judicial associations and the full Courts will take a stand on this. It sounds like, Minister of Justice, and something else, that you intend to abolish or limit yourself by disciplinary prosecutions to elected prosecutors. I must remind you that the Court of Justice assigns all the initiative of the electoral process, within the framework of the judiciary, to plenary sessions. In the plenary, ladies and gentlemen, when the judges, prosecutors and judges who will serve the courts were elected, no objection was raised by any of the candidates. It is now clear, Minister, that there have also been disciplinary action by non-competent people, and I hope that it will be a mistake to make some sort of regulation that will actually break them down. I think you'll deny it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u787	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. The Minister of Justice, Mr. Paradoxopoulos, has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u788	Thank you, Mr President. I must respond to the leadership of justice, that the oldest, General Commissioner of the Administrative Courts, Mrs Fudulakis, was chosen as President of the Ice Bay, Mrs Thanos, who had little distance from the oldest. It is fourth, but the second and third would leave within one year and this in turn is a counter-indication for promotion. In addition, for the Court of Auditors, which has been selected, I think, a third or fourth distance - from the selected ones. So, in general terms, in antiquity there is no dive but there is no faithful respect for antiquity, because the Constitution does not provide for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u789	For the vice presidents, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u790	The constitution for selecting the leadership of justice is clear that it wants two pounds. Firstly, the dignity and, secondly, the confidence of democracy, and that is why it entrusts the Council of Ministers with the final crisis. These two criteria were complied with faithfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u791	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor. Mr Spirtzi, very soon, and then we have two loose ends on the part of the Democratic Alliance. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u792	It's not like that! Forty-four Judges... I would like to speak for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u793	Mr. Spirtzi, would you please give the floor to Mr. Athanasios first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u794	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u795	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Don't create more problems than we have. Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u796	Four worthy Vice-Presidents were omitted for the position of President of the Ice Bay. In the Court of Auditors three or rather the third. The Vice-Presidents of the courts I mentioned attended a total of forty-four worthy and honorable judges, who also represented us abroad. Forty-four! The figures are the ones I mentioned. It never happened! We forget that justice is an equal and equal authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u797	Good. Thank you. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u798	Ladies and gentlemen, after so many days of discussion, we have tried through the legislative improvements, through the clarifications given, through our calls, through the efforts we have made, to seek greater convergences, with a view to our political commitments, transparency, social justice and the protection of the public interest. Despite the completely different ideological perspectives, there were political spaces and persons who, if anything, demonstrated in their vote on the principle of the draft law that they accept the need to take a major step in the field of television stations and frequencies. And we really do not understand the change of attitude today. Even Article 1 will not be voted on? Or Article 55 for the ERR?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u799	Definitely not!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u800	Of course we won't vote for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u801	We're not talking about you. We are talking about other places where people have shown that they want something to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u802	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u803	We're going to go to you, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u804	Oh, giant! You tore up the floods, man!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u805	Thank you! Thank you very much. Unfortunately, gentlemen of the New Democracy, your representatives have shown other things. They have shown a willingness not to contribute in this direction but with loans of arguments, they have supported the arguments of channel owners and have consistently supported them. Some people have probably erased from their memory, as the ERT computer programs for citizens who have problems with hearing and vision, too. They have written the effort for the main shareholder of the current President of the Republic. And I wonder who you were voting on at the time, what are you going to vote on today? Will you vote against Article 6? Will you vote against that those who have public contracts can have a television channel? So, I wonder. Some have remembranced the positions of former Prime Minister, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, for the independent authorities and for the circumvention of the executive, legislative and, above all, judicial powers. But how can you, ladies and gentlemen, have deleted what you did yesterday with the Samara Government? I set out in my prototype the practice of 699 the Independent Telecommunications and Post Committee, which in practice captures the Secretary-General's intervention in the Independent EITT, that there can be only one network provider, while the EITT had decided on two. I have tabled the correspondence with the EBRD, which admits that it has changed two unparalleled conditions of the tender. I filed the correspondence that the tender did not pass through the pre-contractual audit of the Court of Auditors. We didn't hear a word about it. If nothing else, let's make your self-criticism about the choices you've made. You've got so many distinguished lawyers. No one bothered answering? You are accusing us of wanting to build the left state, because we do not want to keep people, who you with vague party criteria have placed. Who do you want to talk about? For the two Vice-Presidents, was one advisor to the Secretary-General of the same Ministry or to members who were advisers of ministers and members of the Independent ECTT? I'll be very honest. Ladies and gentlemen, even if they served political purposes in the New Democracy, respecting the role of the independent or regulatory authorities, we would be discussing it. Unfortunately, the interests they serve and served with their policies, their actions and their omissions, are specific economic interests. We don't have any personal issues. You ask for existing channels to be modulated. Why do you want to favour existing pan-Hellenic stations and their owners? Isn't that a distortion of competition? Didn't you vote for L.4070/2012 that exists incompatible between the network provider and the content provider? Didn't you give the frequencies, or rather the faces that you put into the EMCDDA on six channels? This? Do we forget?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u806	Like you guys in PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u807	And finally, didn't you institutionalise the frequency map without approval from any service for what you've got? I ask you and please, finally, ask a mechanic for terrestrial digital broadcasting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u808	We'll ask about insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u809	We'll ask about bus tickets.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u810	There is no invasion or even the possibility of hundreds of channels. We've explained it to you. Let me explain to you, colleagues of the New Democracy, when we could have. If you hadn't sold OTE or when you sold him, if you'd kept the public telecommunications networks in public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u811	You get him back!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u812	PASOK, you were then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u813	If you'd kept the satellite Greek and public, then we'd have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u814	You were with PASOK then. It was your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u815	Then we'd have.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u816	PASOK, you were then!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u817	You have chosen the terrestrial digital broadcast of television programmes, you have made the world, citizens buy millions of digital receivers in a few days. You keep invoking a number of lame arguments,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u818	It's yours!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u819	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u820	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...trying to create distorting impressions. He says Mr. Augias that France has thirty-six channels. Germany has forty-four channels. We, why should we have less? That's what we're saying, Mr. Ausgarian. With a reduction in the population and market rules you believe in relation to the population of France, which is 66.3 million, we need to have 1/6 of the channels, namely seven channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u821	That's what you say, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u822	In relation to the population of Germany, which has eighty million, we have to have 17/7, that is six channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u823	The Cyprus that has ten?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u824	Please, Minister, finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u825	Mr President, it does not let me finish. With a reduction in GDP, France has two trillions. GDP. Germany has 3.5 or more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u826	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u827	Bulgaria has 96 and Romania 94. Don't lie now, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u828	Mr. Ignace, please! We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u829	Greece - and this is your job - has GDP 178 billion today. So, with regard to the GDP of France, we should have three channels, both with Germany and Germany. And together with population and GDP, there should be four and five respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u830	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u831	That's what we're saying. That's what we're talking about! It's just arithmetic!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u832	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u833	Finally, you tell us that the Minister of State, namely the Government, but the PSE, must not decide. You, obviously, from the ERR are happy, proud, with its operation for television. Congratulations on having this pride!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u834	While you want to remove everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u835	On the other hand, we will not give the government's responsibilities to the independent authorities. We are not setting up the composition of the regulators to impose political or other understandings, as you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u836	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u837	We have not intervened or will not intervene with the independent authorities like you. We take our responsibilities and state that, as much as we muddle, either the media or the staff or at political level, we will continue. We didn't come to surrender, we didn't come to haggle. We will fight and respect our commitments to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u838	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u839	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u840	Mr Venizelos has sent me a note and he asks me to speak on the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u841	Mr President, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u842	Mr. Ignace, Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u843	Mr President, for a second. What do you mean, I don't have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u844	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u845	If you didn't hear why I'm asking you for the floor. Why don't you give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u846	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u847	Did you hear me? What exactly are you guys?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u848	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u849	Did you hear me? How do you reject me without listening to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u850	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u851	Are you president now? What exactly are you? I don't understand. Did you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u852	President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u853	You can't take the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u854	Mr President, did you hear what I asked you to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u855	You can't take the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u856	You didn't hear what I asked you to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u857	I don't want you asking me anything. You can't take the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u858	What are you exactly? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u859	You can't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u860	But you didn't hear what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u861	You can't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u862	You'll hear first and then you'll reject. You're obliged to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u863	I'm not going to give you the floor. Parliament's spokesman for the PASOK-PMAR Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u864	Mr President, did you hear what I told you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u865	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u866	Please. Please. Why? What are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u867	You'll take the floor when you have to and the procedure you have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u868	Tell me when.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u869	Please, sit down! You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u870	Tell me when.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u871	Mr. Loverdos will speak. Mr. Venizelos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u872	So when?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u873	Mr. Loverdos will speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u874	So when?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u875	We will not negotiate the Rules of Procedure of the House. Sit down to move the process forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u876	We should have voted from 19 a.m. to 19 a.m. You do not respect the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u877	So when am I gonna have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u878	Sit down to move the process forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u879	For thirty seconds, on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u880	Sit down! There was no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u881	On personal grounds, Mr President, when will I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u882	Sit down. Please, please, close Mr. Ausgeakis' microphone. Let's move on. Mr. Loverdo, you can start. There's another procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u883	When will I have the floor, tell me! I asked when I'd have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u884	He told you, after Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u885	Mr. Augias is waiting for the 20:00 card to come out and play. It has a new role. It's a show today!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u886	We will not negotiate the Rules of Procedure of the House. Please, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u887	Get him out!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u888	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u889	The staff were then invented. From the outset you have not asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u890	So when are you going to give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u891	The word 'personnelly' was subsequently invented. Please! We expect colleagues to move forward in order to leave for their homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u892	Tell me when I'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u893	You don't have the floor. You are responsible for the delay we are currently in existence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u894	When will I be able to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u895	You've got ten more minutes for the report. It's early for the part.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u896	You'll sit down and take the floor when you have to and with the procedure you have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u897	When do I have to? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u898	You're gonna sit down. I'm not going to give you the floor no matter how long you insist. You're not going to take the floor. I assure you, you're not going to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u899	So, I don't understand, when will I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u900	You are stalling the whole House. You will sit down and you will take the floor in accordance with the procedure to be followed by the Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u901	What is the procedure? Is that magical? Is that a secret? Is that Yatti? Are you stubborn in here? I'm asking the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u902	You'll sit down first and stop yelling. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Loverdos. We're listening, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u903	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister of State, when you tabled your legislative improvements and amendments, I had asked you a question and you had given me a first answer. I have ruled, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, that you have chaired, that we should take the improvements and the amendments so that we can put them in place. It's been about two and a half hours. It's time. I'm sorry, Minister, but you dropped a bomb. At 16:00, and while the process went to the end, you dropped a bomb. We of the Standing Committee - and Mr Papatheodorou in particular - told you that we had three conditions for finding - convergences. The third condition, ladies and gentlemen, was to show full respect for the independent authorities, the administrative independent authorities and the constitutional independent authorities. And at 16.00, ladies and gentlemen, there is a change here - it is point 3 of the Minister's speeches - which defines the following: He says the Minister is added to Article 55(10) as follows: ‘The provision of Article 110(12) of the Act is repealed. Date of birth: 4055/2012. For those under the Constitution, independent authorities have not been replaced by the remaining members within the six-month period provided for in the above provision and for the reconstruction of those authorities, in accordance with paragraph 13 of that Article, - listen now - ‘remove members’. In other words, the member of the independent ‘National Broadcasting Council’, appointed in December 2014 under the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Conference of Presidents, 4/5, a proposal from the then President - to replace a deceased member for as long as he has left the office of the deceased, leaves here. It leaves the independent authority, is deleted, with a regulation, Mr President, which is a declaration of war with the independent authorities. It is a declaration of war, and with the opposition, especially with us, which, since the beginning of the week, we have raised a matter of principle, which may also give rise to convergences. It is known what Article 101a(3) of the Constitution lays down. It is also known here, to those who have participated in the Conference of Presidents, that instead of Parliament deciding a simple guarantee to change by law, because we feared all the choices of the majority, we said to put an increased institutional parliamentary guarantee. This is the Conference of Presidents and with the best possible majority: 4/5. In this process we have gone for years. The independent authorities have problems. But we don't remove them to cure them. And you come now, Minister, while with your nails you seemed to deny what you have assumed, to expel also those who are now normally serving, without an extension of their term of office. This, along with what Mr Spirtz said, creates a war against the independent authorities, an invasive violation of the Constitution, and a war with us as a party, which we have held all these days once we consider to be an exemplary attitude. Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this? If we go that way, then you put your law at risk. Then you say that the next steps in the Conference of Presidents will be war. So we cannot agree and since institutional guarantees are increased everything will stop, Minister. Why are you doing this? What do you want to achieve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u904	Can the Minister answer, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u905	What do you want to do? Please, too. You brought it to about five. Take care of yourself. Until next week. Take that back. Otherwise we are withdrawing what we have said about both Article 18 and everything that is about the independent administrative authorities. Everything we've told you is deleted. Because it's a very bad show of political power, what you're doing. He's a nerve. I would ask you very much to return to the previous process, a creative debate here, to find ends. That's how we'll only find war.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u906	Mr President, let the Minister also listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u907	Mr. Venizelos has the floor. And then the Minister will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u908	I have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament shall determine how drafts and proposals of laws and amendments are introduced. An amendment amending the law implementing the Constitution, as provided for in Article 101a, on the status of independent authorities, cannot be introduced at the last minute without a debate, without a procedure in the form of a so-called legislative improvement. Here, with the amendment introduced by the Government, the early termination of the term of office of members of the independent authorities, i.e. the National Broadcasting Council, the ASA, the Personal Data Protection Authority, the Privacy Authority of Communications and the Citizens' Counsellor, is foreseen here. This is a major institutional interference affecting the rule of law and a status quo. Article 101a protects the term of office of the members of the independent authorities. The term of office may not be shortened even by law. It can only be extended. Abbreviation shall be an insult to the core of the personal and operational independence of the members of the independent authorities. Moreover, how will you implement your law, the one you want to vote on today, without a National Broadcasting Council? In two months' time, the amendment says, the new members will be chosen, if they are chosen, if there are 4/5 in the Conference of Presidents. We will go without a legally constituted National Broadcasting Council, without any supervision and without any authorisation. All pending, all blackmailed. So, what's going on here? We have another manifestation of the government's policy to create a new regime in the institutions. But beware, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that other regimes in the economy and society do not shape, that's how you shape the economic and social effects of a policy. You have betrayed the promises, and now you have gone to the other end, because you have damaged the interests of the economy and the country, and now you are violating the Constitution and destroying the independent authorities. You did it in justice, you did it in the independent authorities. Well, there are barriers, barriers that are not political or contemporary, they are constitutional and institutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u909	He's absolutely right. They'll find it in front of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u910	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u911	Wait a minute, Minister. They have asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if this is the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u912	Clearly for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u913	First of all, the Minister has the floor and if there is still a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u914	No, let me. No, not because there's a misunderstanding about that. We'll clarify. I don't think you're gonna have to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u915	Now don't you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u916	Wait a minute, let me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u917	Please, can we respect a procedure? The Minister claims that he can give some explanations to stop the debate, may not. Let's hear first, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u918	I think this is a misunderstanding, and that is why I have taken the floor now to solve it. You're right. If we wanted to end early on the term of office of members of staff whose term of office is still in force, there would be an infringement of Article 101 of the Constitution. This isn't about it. What do we want to solve? Not having a bad composition of the National Broadcasting Council, as the case law of the Council of State has already considered that extensions remain the responsibility of the Conference of Presidents and that is why they pose a problem of formation. So what do we say? We say that the members of staff whose term of office has expired will leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u919	No, you don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u920	Deal. Listen. I have also seen the wording. I hadn't seen her before. I suggest... [[Noise in the Chamber - protests]] Listen. It's a big deal. The exact opposite happens to what you say. We want there to be a consensus...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u921	Remove the wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u922	I would point out that when we say in the addition to Article 55 "they leave the servants whose term of office has expired", we add to ensure that there is no misunderstanding and that the political background is clear that we want consensus, precisely because we currently have an objectively bad composition. We had successive extensions in the past, starting with the objective impossibility of achieving precisely this large majority. And because I imagine those who want to clarify the broadcasting landscape in a healthy way, we want to have a National Broadcasting Council, we say this simple. The members we know there is a coma, because their term of office has expired and the Council of State considers that they cannot be extended, so these members are not going to leave. The member appointed in 2014 will obviously not leave. So, I think we have no fundamental disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u923	It's a constitutional offense you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u924	Mr President, I am sorry, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u925	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u926	Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u927	Mr President, I accept that Mr Katrugalos expresses the final will of the government after what has been heard. The wording that has been tabled has nothing to do with what the Government is supposed to seek. He should withdraw it now, and if he wants to bring another wording, bring it to a bill. What Mr Katrugalos says is that the independent authorities will operate in another form - that is, the number of members will change - that the National Broadcasting Council with three members can work, because they are only three members. This cannot be done either. It is also unreasonable, disproportionate, that it runs counter to all the guarantees of the Constitution. So no matter what the government wants to do, it is unclear and institutionally dangerous. Remove the wording and bring into another bill a wording that is in line with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u928	Minister, you want to blackmail the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u929	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u930	Mr. Voridis, by what procedure, relying on where?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u931	The procedure is that, once the question of the Rules of Procedure has been raised, I am taking the floor to place myself on the New Democracy side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u932	Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u933	With the clarifications given by the Minister, let me join his spirit if I understand it correctly? It has nothing to do with the wording. What you have here formulated doesn't say that. What you are saying, however, is that the term of office of those who ended the term of office has to be extended. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u934	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u935	Yes, sir. Take the device back as it is. There is no need at all, because since the end of the term of office, the question of replacing them with the envisaged procedure is raised. There is no need for this provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u936	Mr President, I request the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u937	Mr Theocharis Parliamentary Representative of the River has the floor. Mr. Loverdos, I'll give you the floor. Please let Mr Theocharis speak a little. To listen to the views of the different parties and to return. I hear you, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u938	Thank you, Mr President. I also wanted to raise a point which has not been raised by the Members who have, in any case, been more eminent than me. This provision introduces criteria for the withdrawal of members of a collective body, which are not dependent on those members who cease. That is to say, because a member resigns and is not replaced, the term of office of other members shall cease. It's unconstitutional too. Yesterday, the university congress paid the highest honour to the President of France, Mr. Holland. Imagine bringing us a provision here that all members of the assembly cease if a member of the assembly is not replaced within two months. Could you stand this thing in constitutional? Could it under any circumstances stand up to this provision? I think it should also be withdrawn for that reason. If a provision says: 'in the event of a disciplinary misconduct, behaviour or any other reason of the same member, that his/her term of office may be terminated', he may be discussed, but not in this form.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u939	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u940	Understood. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u941	Mr President, you saw that we would have avoided all this, if you had given me the floor, to ask this question exactly when the Minister was presenting the specific legislative improvement. I think that, for his part, Mr Katrugalos, what he wants to say is to do with a lack of need for legislative improvement. That is to say, we leave things the way it is and we move forward with the renewal or the election of three new members of the Broadcasting Council, for example. That is why it is because their term of office has been completed. But look, Mr Ministers, what you're talking about. Because I think you really want a whole different thing from what Mr. Katrugalos says. Refer to Article 110(12) of Law 4055/2012. It is the very law that passed the terms of the independent authorities from four to eight years. That's what you're abolishing. I understand you. I disagree with you because you are fully changing the composition of the independent constitutionally guaranteed authorities. Otherwise, if you do not want this, you withdraw the provision, because there is no need for any change in the law. We need to move to the Conference of Presidents so that we have three members who are missing. That is what this is all about, Mr Pappa. If that is what you want - I asked you earlier - just say it and remove the legislative improvement. It is not a legislative improvement, it is a injury and it is not an improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u942	All right, Mr. Papatheodorou. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u943	To speak creatively that can solve a problem rather than magnify it, I would like to say that it is clear that the Minister for Legislative Initiative, the Minister of State, is not legal and cannot control all matters. That makes perfect sense. He accepts the assistance of the Professor, Mr Katrugalos, who sits next to him, but who I am sure of what he said does not know exactly what he has defined and laid down in Article 110(12) of the Act and, in particular, the verse (b), ladies and gentlemen. With the addition you are now doing, you do not add anything but what you want to achieve, you are destroying it. What did you tell us now? We're not going to hurt anyone who hasn't finished his term of office. For those who have ended their term of office, we want to regulate. There's no such thing as that. You intervene where an active member of an independent authority exists. The addition you are adding is an attempt to save something that you do not know well - we look at it, we torture it - and it confuses you, it confuses the applicationer, and it confuses us politically. I say again, Mr President of Parliament, that is a declaration of war. You've been setting a deadline for two months. It's two months in complete unfinished condition. Keep this issue, withdrawing the order for about a week, while making a draft law here in Parliament and bringing it back again, since you have seen it, because clearly you do not know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u944	President Meimarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u945	Mr President, I would like to contribute to this debate. What the government brings us could have been avoided if, in the previous terms, I was President of Parliament, the Conference of Presidents were convened, where we had agreed and suddenly SYRIZA said 'no, I do not agree, because it is an election period' and we had replaced the members whose term of office had expired. At that time, the House made efforts to enable the independent authorities to have a number of quorums. Because this is not just about the PSE. It concerns both the ADAP and the AAP and all the committees and it has been set up during my term of office, in the two years since the expiry of the terms of office of several members of the independent authorities. And, in some cases, we have achieved the 4/5 because this is a very difficult constitutional requirement and we could not proceed with the changes. Although we discussed all the independent authorities together and had come to an end, SYRIZA unrelentingly, because it seemed that we were going for elections, was withdrawn from the debate. While we had found the president and the members and the ADP and had discussed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u946	And at the ERR, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u947	And the ERR. In all four authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u948	And the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u949	Yes, we had proposed and had Mr. Papagelopoulos. We agreed and Mr Kammenos had agreed. In any case, we agreed. So what I want to conclude, Mr President, is that Mr Pappas may not know about it. Mr Katrugalos spoke to us, without having read the provision, and now he tells us that he read it and indeed it is what we call it. To withdraw the provision, see whether we can agree on the parties at the Conference, and if there is agreement, we will also agree to changing the members of the committees. If people are proposed who are personal, objectively well-known, who have the criteria of objectivity and are well-known to the Greek society and maintain an independent opinion on the channels or any other committee they must have, then the parties will agree to the Conference of Presidents. Therefore, Mr President, I propose that the order be withdrawn. Even if it's voted, what's going to happen? All right, they're gonna leave, they're not going to leave in my opinion, but the authorities are going to stay numerical tricks. Therefore, withdraw it, Minister, so we can finish it. Why are we talking about it now? Since 19.00, we have said that we will have the vote, the time is 20.00 and we are discussing an amendment which I have tabled without having studied, you have brought us a last minute. But we don't legislate like that! One Minister tells us 'this is the amendment', the other Minister says 'I have not read it well' and the third one says something else. This is not what the government should have on such serious issues of independent authority. We understand that you have a problem with the independent authorities. It is possible that all governments do not want the independent authorities, but it has not shown any of them, this attitude which you, one with the Secretary-General of Income, one with the PSE, one with the AIA. At last, Mr President, the withdrawal of the vote must be allowed to proceed with the vote. Here's the government, next week he's bringing it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u950	Very good, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u951	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u952	Wait a minute, Mr. Venizelo. The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u953	Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that a number of things have been heard about the independent authorities and Mr Venizelos and Mr Loverdos, but above all by the beloved, former President of Parliament, Vangelis Meimarakis. And I want to say that it's not like that or that's what happened. And it would be a mistake to our parliamentary procedure if it were somewhat provoked through this debate. For for two and a half years, three years, when SYRIZA was in the office opposition, there had been too many efforts and there were convergings, agreements - it could only be done with the then government which had the first word - and I will say it directly, therefore - to internally different estimates, valuations and choices within the then government. Please, Mr Majmarakis, we have had discussions and you know that very well. In a very responsible way you had handled things, but you know very well that, when we ended up in something, even without any netting, we always voted on it. The president of the AACC was voted - he is Mr Karavokouris - with only the votes... We were at a demonstration at the time. We agreed to be some others and never these others, that is, the two other members, because there was disagreement, were not elected. And it happened a few months ago that you left. I can tell you, because I had dealt with this issue as a Secretary of Parliament for one - one of these authorities, all the stations that we have passed through, through which persons we have passed, which of them have been rejected with choices - obviously with different views that were available and legitimate is this within the governing party at that time - but not under the responsibility of the SYRIZA or what has been said, that SYRIZA has reached the point, in order to get to that point that the government now wants to heal. I'm not going to go into the exact way he wants to heal it, how he's gonna get it, and so on. But the fact that the present government and the government of 25 January are taking over an unacceptable regime in terms of the composition of the independent authorities, you should all admit it. One by one, if we take them, they suffer the same people who are there and they tell us. In principle, without a president, and therefore all the decisions it has taken - I am not saying, because they are written in the Minutes - they are on the air. Principles of other principles in terms of age, progress in the situation, convergences, compositions or composition thereof. Principles big, like ASAP. I have the file ready with a proposal from where we might be able to get through, all the lists depend, so that people can enter the public or elsewhere and at least twelve members are missing. We have not reached this because of SYRIZA's objections in any way. The majority, the large majority of these principles, which you now support as an institution, are certainly not in any way in any way at all, very close to the views of the current government. Maybe that's why there's this embarrassment and that nervousness. Nevertheless, we have been close to the independent authorities in all previous years. I remind you of the conference that had taken place, where - you remember, Mr Meymarakis - the governor had not been called, something had been done. We were very close to both their presidents and everywhere. In any case, this is a very long debate. The independent authorities - and I do not want to hurt anyone because they are scientists, retired judiciaries, and others who are approved - cannot be in front of modern times, in 2015, and the big problems of the country - a storeroom of scientists - who, in fact, some of them go from an independent authority to an independent authority. And they come and suggest us to which next independent authority to be, whether by co-existence or by far exceeding all age margins and teachers of universities and others. I am well aware that many of you who spoke before, you are older than me in this Chamber, that you are entirely in agreement with what I am presenting. You know it. In this sense, the government's efforts are done in this way. To find better, to find a shorter but to heal, not to prolong this regime. This regime cannot be extended for one day! How heals, let's all see it together!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u954	You have a parliamentary representative for the President of Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u955	Mr Venizelos has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u956	Mr President, while Mr Voutsis, the President of Parliament, intervenes in the sense that he supports the government's proposal as a legislative improvement, he actually contradicts it. Because he realises that the attempt to abolish the independent authorities was unfortunate and should be revoked. What Mr Voutis says about the problems of staffing the independent authorities is to a large extent correct. If, however, SYRIZA really had a will at the Conference of Presidents by December 2014 to become a consensual choice of members, it would have been. And at the National Broadcasting Council, as I said before outside of the microphone...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u957	Mr. McGeetris, we had him co-decided and rejected by the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u958	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u959	You want me to start saying names?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u960	Don't exterminate yourself. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u961	I'm not exterminating myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u962	I told you you were very right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u963	To a very large extent!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u964	So I say that what you say does not serve with these institutional interventions as the government has now attempted. At the National Broadcasting Council, which is the crucial body, Mr Samaras had proposed that Mr Papagelopoulos be chosen as president, who I am glad to see was surrounded by the highest confidence of today's Prime Minister. I agreed as PASOK President. The former President of the Parliament, Mr Kaklamanis, had disagreements because of the term of office of Mr. Papaggiopoulou at the Athletic Prosecution of Athens. If SYRIZA voted, there would be no problem with the majority. However, these are matters for the implementation of the Constitution and for the functioning of the Conference of Presidents. They are not matters of legislative intervention that catastrophic independence, which expires and alters their composition. Because or what Mr Katrugalos says is true, that all the members are leaving and there is no member who serves, or is the interpretation that Mr Katrugalos has attempted to give, that the authorities with few members are working, what happened to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u965	Good. Mr. Venizelo, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u966	Both are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u967	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u968	The point is, firstly, the withdrawal of the order and secondly, the correction of the institutional damage caused to the House in the previous Parliament, in January, in which due to the styles and perceptions of the Bureau of Parliament and the President of your own choice, nothing really worked in the House and the Conference of Presidents and the independent authorities were also undermined.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u969	The President of the New Democracy, Mr Meymarakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u970	Mr President, I feel the need to respond to the chosen President of this House, with all due respect and appreciation I have for him and the good cooperation we had during which I was President and was Secretary of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which I believe will now continue. Well, in order for this House to understand the issue even better, the problem is that, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution provides for a 4/5 majority in the Conference of Presidents, which is very difficult to achieve, since over four parties are in Parliament. This Constitution has been passed. And because he wanted to give special authority and a supra-party - if you want - character to all those who make up the Independent Authorities, 4/5 was decided. So Mr Voutsis says that he has now received this problem as a parliament. Oh, no. I received it because it was the first seven-party parliament, which was created. And we had two parties, which, by 'good morning', said: 'We do not participate in this debate, whatever you propose. And one of us to propose, 'the present', we vote. So, there could not be 4/5. Mr Karavokouris was finally elected, because the JRC voted for it and proposed it, which in all other procedures said, "I, by conviction, not for the faces, am voting "white". Indeed, Mr McGeemis was proposed, as the President of Parliament says. When was it proposed? Two days after he left ERT with a letter that was then described as "attacking the Prime Minister", unacceptable in our view. And SYRIZA came and offered us someone who was sure the government wouldn't agree. There was no one else for whom you would be more confident that the government would not agree, since two days before it had issued a letter to the public that there was an intervention in its work and that it would not be able to function and that it would leave the ERT. It's like I'm telling you now to propose Mrs. Savvaidou to put her president on the National Broadcasting Council. Will you take it? Hey, that's not happening! So we'll tell you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you think that this is how you have made a positive contribution at that time to this matter, let me tell you that you have the wrong assessment. It is still a matter, Minister. Whether you cross the device or don't pass it, the matter remains. This can be resolved at the Conference of Presidents and we can well find personalities on the basis of which we can agree. I would also tell you that this will be done for all the independent authorities, with respect from all parties and from the government. The House as a whole was then placed in extending the term of office of Members. We didn't do it in hiding or at night or anything. It's been discussed. There was no other procedure. You are right about the Council of State, which is precisely because of the composition of the PSE, many of the decisions have been made that they are not correct. But this is not cured by the way you come to do it today. I believe that you have understood from what the Minister of State has said. Remove the device to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u971	The debate on the arguments has been concluded. The last reason is the Minister of State, Mr. Pappas. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u972	Let me say this: I see, first of all, an agreement, that there is no objection to the abolition of the provision of n. Date of birth: 4055/2012. There is an increased concern to make it clear from the provision that this concerns the expiry of the terms of office, the members of which have expired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u973	These are over. It's over. Let's go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u974	I, therefore, have been in the committees from the outset and have stressed that this bill is only the beginning and that anyone - because the whole debate has evolved around the responsibilities of the Minister, responsibilities of the PSE, etc. - retrospectively question the legality of conducting the tender, precisely because there are no more formalities but very serious doubts about its legal composition. So the intention of this provision is precisely to shield the institutions - if you like - the procedure and the conduct of the competition, for which - parentheses - the speech will not have any competence. So, to improve, in this respect, that the order of your concerns should be made much clearer, and that we should all come here - but before our responsibilities, without passing over and making the Conference of Presidents too fast and that the Greek people should know that there is the responsibility of the deadlock, with the draft law adopted not to form an EPP with a legitimate composition, so that it is shielded. So I say if there's a deal...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u975	Why did you put the cart in front of the horse?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u976	Wait. If there's a deal that the device...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u977	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u978	I didn't hear any objections. ... to abolish the provision of Law 4055 and make it clear that it concerns members whose term of office has expired.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u979	After it's over, we don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u980	So I'm willing here to make a recast...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u981	Without changing the configuration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u982	The formation, Mr Venizelos, needs a Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u983	The number of members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u984	How can it change? But I can tell you that there needs to be a Conference of Presidents to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u985	Not the faces of the members. The number of members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u986	Oh, no. The number of members shall not change in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u987	The way you write it, it changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u988	Let me have a different reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u989	I'll let you. Sure. I'm telling you the simple thing. Withdrawal of the wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u990	Okay, you're a constitutionalist, too, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u991	The simple one. Remove the wording and this provision we put it into any bill next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u992	Allow me, we are ready and going ahead with this process and we have a great heart to clarify the issue that the New Democracy is raising.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u993	What big heart?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u994	Excuse me, I don't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u995	I'm telling you. Withdraw and bring in a few days the well formulated arrangement for us to agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u996	No, we can improve it now, clarify it and move on. I think it will be absolutely solid and complete the step taken by the Greek Parliament today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u997	Good, we're waiting for what the Minister of State will bring. Previously, we have a loose end. He had asked for the floor on the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aygeakis and Mrs Vultesis. I don't know if it's about the same thing. We're listening, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u998	Mr President, as rapporteur for the New Democracy and all my fellow Members of the New Democracy, all the days that we have had an extremely intense, pressing debate, we have been useful through proposals but, above all, through information that we have tabled to both the committee and to the House. We had said from the outset, Mr President, that this law cannot function - Mr Pappas understood it - because we do not have an PSE. In other words, as Mrs Vultesis rightly said, 'he put the cart in front of the horse'. However, I asked to speak earlier - and the procedure would have been completed if you were to give me the floor for thirty seconds - because Mr Spirtz had distorted information I had submitted from the Step of Parliament myself this morning. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, I'd like some quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u999	Please, if you're kind enough to be quiet. Mr Augias concludes, and then we will enter the voting procedure. Keep going, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1000	So I wanted to say... [[Noise in the Chamber]] But I don't sound...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1001	I would ask those who want to get out of the Chamber to get out as soon as possible to continue the process with dignity. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Towards the end, please, a little quiet! Please close the doors too. Keep going, Mr. Ausgeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1002	Let's wait for the colleagues to leave so that the Chamber can relax.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1003	I wait as long as I can. Please, just quiet down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1004	I therefore wanted to make a statement in the same way as I did this morning and also in the committees, some of which need to be taken into account by all my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spirtz mentioned some of the facts completely wrong. So I say in the most official way that in Bulgaria today, ten national channels operate and much more regionally. In France, only thirty-six national ranges...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1005	Yes, but that is not in the Rules of Procedure. You get into the essence and you do the whole placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1006	But I want to end up somewhere, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1007	It is not on the Rules of Procedure. The previous one that we left and evolved was on the Rules of Procedure. Now you are thinking about a subject for which the process had been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1008	Mr President, you are imposing peace in the Chamber. In thirty seconds, I'll be done, but there'll be quiet. Mr. Spirtzis is here, so I can go on. So I said that the New Democracy, with the rapporteur and all the colleagues we have asked for, and took the floor, both in the committee and in the plenary, has tried to make a real contribution to the consensus requested by Mr Papapas, the Minister of State, because this is our role, this is our aim, this is our pursuit as a New Democracy and not, of course, the climate, the way and the tension, which was created through Mr Spirtzi's words. I would like to put forward the figures and conclude on the Rules of Procedure. Bulgaria 10 national channels. France thirty-six national channels. Germany forty-four national channels. In the case of the United Kingdom, there are only sixty national channels. Cyprus ten national channels. In the United Kingdom, twenty-four national channels. Romania ninety-four national channels and Sweden twenty-nine national channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1009	What exactly do you want to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1010	All this, Mr President, and the Rules of Procedure, is without the Minister's permission. That is why I think that, when we go up to this step, much more so when we have the Minister's status, we must put forward precise figures, much more when we talk at times about more specific issues, which all my fellow Members do not have technical knowledge, but some of which we are engineers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1011	But you do! Arithmetic, don't you know? It's simple actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1012	That is why I consider, Mr President - and I conclude with this - that there must be respect for colleagues in each political wing, for precise information, and, above all, not a distortion of what has been said or of what has been put forward in a previous year by rapporteurs or MPs, government or opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1013	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break, as you can see, as much time as it takes to bring the order into its final form and to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1014	Mr. Augias played the role of advertising in the break!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1015	Before we interrupt, however, ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Carditsa Chrysula Katsavria - Soriopoulou calls for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1016	The House approved the requested permission. The sitting is suspended for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1017	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. I would ask the Members to be advised to enter the Chamber so that they can hear the legislative improvement that the Minister will read. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask all Members to enter the Chamber so that the procedure can proceed. The Minister of State Mr Nikolaos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1018	To be distributed to the MPs first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1019	Then he'll be distributed. After it's signed. It will be submitted to the Bureau and signed for distribution. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You must say, 'A amendment is being tabled...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1020	Mr President, this is not an amendment. It's a legal improvement. Minister, is it an amendment or a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1021	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1022	The proposed clarification is as follows: Article 55(10) reads as follows: ‘The provision of Article 110(12) of the Treaty shall be repealed. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1023	Mr President, a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1024	Here you go, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1025	All right is this provision but to make it clear that these institutions as collective bodies of the administration, if they do not have a sufficient number of members, will not operate with an incomplete number of members. They will expect the appointment of members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1026	Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1027	Obviously we accept this point. If they do not have the quorum required by the Code of Administrative Procedure, they will not be able to function. In fact, as a government, we want to call on all the forces in this House to work together to ensure that the members of the National Broadcasting Council are quickly completed, because on the contrary, we cannot have a full restoration of the landscape.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1028	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1029	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1030	When the provisions of the Law of 2012 are repealed, it shall be presumed without any further argument that the term of office remains four years. So those who are active members on the basis of the eight-year term are leaving. That's it. The House should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1031	I would ask that the Minister's legislative practice be distributed, so that we can proceed with the voting process. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Minister of State is adjourned: "Authorisation of the contents of digital television broadcast free of charge - Establishment linked to ERT SA. Anonymous company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Setting up of the themes of the National Telecommunications and Postal Commission (ETC) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and Register of Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of the provisions of Law 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions.’ Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the New Republic on Articles 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 55 of which the text of:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1032	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Augias Eleftherios. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mr. Charakopoulos Maximus. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mr. Panagiotopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mrs. Kerameo Nike. Here. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Voridis Mavroudis. Here you go. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Mrs. Ahmakopoulou Anna - Michelle. Here. Mr. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourning our meeting for ten (10) minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1033	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 55 of the draft law of the Minister of State: "Authorisation of providers of free-take terrestrial digital television content - Establishment linked to ERT SA. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and a Register of Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of Law 4070/2012 (Government A' 82) and other provisions. Receiving the articles of the bill reads “THE”. The non-accepting articles of the bill say 'OHS'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that faxes - fax colleagues have come to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they state their vote on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1034	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by Members pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1035	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my colleagues and I have a point of order. Ioannis Tsironis, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Apostolos Vesyropoulos, Dora Bakoyannis, Theodores Fortsakis, Athanasios Davakis, Panagiotis (Noti) Mitarakis, Konstantinos Tsavaras, George Vagios, Konstantinos Gioulekas, Evri Christophilopoulos, George Arvanitides, Michael Jellis, Stergios Giannakis will not be present in today's roll-call vote and we are aware of their vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but shall not be counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1036	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the vote on the remaining articles and amendments to the draft law of the Minister of State. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1037	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1038	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1039	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1040	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1041	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1042	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1043	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1044	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1045	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1046	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1047	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1048	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1049	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1050	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1051	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1052	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1053	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1054	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1055	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1056	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1057	Article 6 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1058	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1059	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1060	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1061	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1062	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1063	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1064	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1065	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1066	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1067	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1068	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1069	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1070	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1071	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1072	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1073	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1074	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1076	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1077	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1078	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1079	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1080	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1081	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1082	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1083	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1084	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1085	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1086	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1087	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1088	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1089	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1090	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1091	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1092	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1093	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1094	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1095	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1096	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1097	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1098	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1099	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1100	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1101	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1102	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1103	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1104	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1105	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1106	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1107	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1108	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1109	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1110	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1111	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1112	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1113	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1114	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1115	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1116	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1117	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1118	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1119	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1120	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1121	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1122	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1123	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1124	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1125	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1126	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1127	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1128	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1129	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1130	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1131	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1132	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1133	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1134	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1135	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1136	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1137	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1138	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1139	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1140	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1141	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1142	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1143	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1144	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1145	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1146	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1147	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1148	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1149	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1150	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1151	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1152	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1153	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1155	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1156	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1157	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1158	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1160	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1161	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1162	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1163	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1164	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1165	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1167	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1168	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1169	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1170	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1171	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1172	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1176	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1177	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1178	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1179	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1183	Article 56 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 57 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1185	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1187	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1189	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1190	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 9 and a special number 1?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1191	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1192	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1193	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1194	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1195	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1197	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 9 and a special 1 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1198	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 251 Members voted. Article 2 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 161 MPs. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Article 2 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 3 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 3 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 4 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. 'OH' have voted 80 MPs. 17 MPs voted. Article 4 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 9 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 9 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 11 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 184 MPs. 'OH' have voted 67 MPs. Article 11 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 12 of the draft law: "NAI" voted 157 MPs. 'OH' 57 MPs voted. 17 MPs voted. Article 12 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 13 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 161 MPs. (Parliament adopted the resolution) 17 MPs voted. Article 13 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 14 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'OH' 74 MPs voted. Article 14 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 16 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 177 MPs. 'OH' 55 MPs voted. 'PARON' were voted 19 MPs. Article 16 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 17 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 17 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 18 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. 'OH' 95 MPs voted. 'PARON' 2 Members voted. Article 18 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 21 of the draft law: 'NAI' have voted 164 MPs. (Parliament adopted the resolution) 'PARON' 2 Members voted. Article 21 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 22 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 22 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 23 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 23 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 24 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 24 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 25 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 25 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 26 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 26 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 27 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 27 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 28 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 28 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 29 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 29 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 30 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 30 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Article 31 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 31 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 32 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 32 was therefore accepted by a majority. Under Article 33 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 33 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Article 34 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 34 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 35 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 35 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 36 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 36 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 37 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 37 has therefore been accepted by a majority. Article 38 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 38 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 39 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 39 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 40 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 40 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 41 of the draft law: "NAI" voted 155 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 'PARON' 2 Members voted. Article 41 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 42 of the draft law: "NAI" voted 155 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 'PARON' 2 Members voted. Article 42 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 43 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. 'OH' 95 MPs voted. 'PARON' 2 Members voted. Article 43 was therefore accepted by a majority. Under Article 55 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 154 MPs. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 55 was therefore accepted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1199	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1200	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1204	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1205	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Minister of State's draft law: ‘Authorisation of providers of free-of-charge digital television content - Establishment linked to ERT SA. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and the Register for Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of the Law. 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions’, was accepted in principle and on articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1206	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1207	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1208	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1211	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Minister of State's draft law: ‘Authorisation of providers of free-of-charge digital television content - Establishment linked to ERT SA. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and the Register for Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of the Law. Regulation (EC) No 4070/2012 (VAT A' 82) and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1212	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1213	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-24-S1-commons.u1214	With the consent of the House at 22.35 minutes the sitting for the next Thursday, October 29, 2015, at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work on the agenda to be distributed.
