ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 11-11-2015, the minutes of the CV's proceedings of Wednesday, 11 November 2015, with regard to the discussion and vote on the State's statement and balance sheet of 2013]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the Topical and urgent question issue of Friday 13 November 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 103/10-11-2015 by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Environment and Energy concerning the authorisation of the fishing plant in Porto Germenos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 111/10-11-2015 of the Greek Parliamentary II Athens of the New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the need to exclude Persons with Disabilities and Serious Mobility from the new reductions in the third memorandum. 3. The question by No 99-9-11-2015 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the payment of the single payment and compensation to farmers in the country. 4. The question by No 122-10-11-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the programme "Help to Home" (P.B.S.).). 5. The question by No 102-10-11-2015 of Parliament's 2nd Thessaloniki, Mr. Catherine Marcos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the financial problems of the Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki. 6. The 115/10-11-2015 topical question by MP Mr. II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the German automotive industry ‘VOLKSWAGEN’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 118/10-11-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Union of Centres Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of State regarding journalistic mediation and national communication policy. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 104-10-11-2015 by MP I Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Helen Stamatakis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the delays of the projects for the tram in Piraeus. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 112-10-11-2015 by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Ausgenakis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism concerning the transfer to the new NSRP (2014-2020) of projects not implemented under the NSRP (2007-2013). 3. The question under number 119/10-11-2015 by MP I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Liana Kanelles to the Minister of Finance regarding the increase in VAT for private care services for elderly and mental patients.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Of the eleven topical questions that were scheduled for today, only three will be discussed, because of the remaining eight, but one that is not debated because of the impediment of the honourable Member, the other seven topical questions are not debated as a result of an impediment by the competent ministers. I say this and I think it is an issue that we should discuss at the Conference of Presidents, because it is very often repeated. The first question under number 93/9-11-2015 of the First Cycle of the MP Ilias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Estathias Georgopoulos - Saltaris to the Minister of Culture and Sport will be discussed now, with regard to ensuring the long operation of the International Film Festival for Children and Youth, held in the Tower of the Prefecture of Elia. Madam President, you have the floor for two minutes and because we have very few topical questions that will be discussed, there will be a relative tolerance for all three honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with my timely question today, I would like to refer to the International Olympic Festival for Children and Youth, a festival to be held this year, for the eighth consecutive year, at the Ilias Tower from 28 November to 5 December. This is a festival that is the largest in the kind of pan-European, with global radiation and representation of our country through it in all the fora and international organisations related to cinematographic education and youth cinema. I note that all films in the competition program, from forty-three countries, are distributed by the principles established by UNICEF and UNESCO for children and youth cinemas outside the standards of mass industry. Apart from cultivating love for cinema, however, the artistic offer of the Olympian festival to children in primary and high school was numerous over the years, with film production workshops, screenings, seminars, earlier with artistic workshops, visiting children's literature writers in schools, while at the same time in the larger cities not only of Elias but also throughout western Greece, film screenings throughout the summer in the mountainous villages of Elias and spreading it later in the island regions of the country. In the suffocating context of an up-to-date question, I am in danger of evicting its multi-faceted offer, as it offers throughout the year. But I must point out that all the educational community in Elia is moving to the pace of the festival in the days of the films and the Tower lives in the pulse of this great organization, without naturally overlooking its contribution to the vitality of economic activity, with the many guests, Greeks and foreigners. Minister, although for us in Elia this festival is the most important artistic cultural institution, but it remains from the state's point of view uninstitutional. The efforts of his actors and artistic director to cover the costs of such a great event are huge and often insuperable for most years. In anguish, therefore, every year grants have become a witness to their implementation and this cannot continue. Today we find it more than ever that it has matured - from the Ministry's point of view - the need to secure it through a multiannual programme contract with the Region of Western Greece. In view of the above, I would like you to be placed on what the Ministry intends and what your direct actions will be to ensure its integrated and multi-annual operation will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u5	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you for the question. It is one of the questions that help to make known important things that are happening in our country and which are good news, at a time when it is not common for good news. I know the International Film and Children's Festival. I know the work that the "Youth Plan" has done, we had the opportunity to discuss it recently, and I think it is an initiative that has been embraced by local society, spread over the entire region, brings foreign competitors competitive and competitive, develop the cinema for young people and their own initiatives and the "Youth Plan" does a million things that help the region and the country. Apparently, the Ministry embraces such initiatives. Obviously we want to sign a contract with a company that comes from you and has the legal guarantees so that such a contract can be signed. The only difficulty, as you know, is the poor finances of both the Ministry of Culture and Sport. You know, too, that what we can do to help. We gave you a small grant this year. We hope that, if Mr Stathakis, who sits next to me, will be better in time for such a programme agreement to be a sufficient basis to develop and consolidate this initiative even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u7	Mrs Georgopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u8	Minister, in your message at the opening ceremony of the 56th Film Festival you mentioned, among other things, that, unlike other forms of artistic creation, film production cannot stand without resources. The reduction in the funds of the Ministry of Culture, therefore also in the state funding of the cinema, forms an awkward reality, in which we should oppose targeted moves and measures. However, precisely these problems, which you also note as a whole for cinema, are also experiencing this International Film Festival that we are discussing today. I believe that as a university teacher and as a former Minister of Education you certainly have awareness of these issues relating to the cultivation of the young audience through the art of cinema. With what you have told us, we believe that some moves will immediately be made. That is why this timely question has also been made, because in the next few days this International Festival is held at the Tower of Elias. I think you have confirmed in your response that you have all the knowledge and the mood for effective support of the festival, despite the fact that there are the suffocating budgetary frameworks that the country is going through. So I think it is very important to stress that such a step towards complete support, economic and institutional, of the festival - and I must stress this - had not been taken in previous policies, it had not been in the previous neoliberals, as I say, governments, although the budget at that time allowed it. However, retrospectively it proved that their choices and priorities in relation to culture were quite different. Today, I cannot say, for these priorities, that our people are being charged with bank debts of millions - this is another issue, of course - and the difficulties in the production of cultural work. We will have the opportunity to place ourselves in the near future. Your answer shows that all the parties involved have been launched and the necessary steps will be taken to conclude a contract in order to support the festival. I would like us to stay in this pleasant news of today's debate and to leave the difficulties arising from other issues at the end of the day. I believe that citizens in Elias and, in general, people of culture will feel satisfied with this development today, and I am sure that they will give more support to this year's organisation. We're waiting for you at the opening or end ceremony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much for the invitation. The legal step remaining is the establishment of a social cooperative company to be able to become a contractor. On the occasion of this, I would just like to add that an initiative like the one taken in Elias Law can be exemplary for other regions of the country. We can see how regions in the country per prefecture, per city, etc., develop with their own special forms of culture and how these must be established and moved, as well as what you said, namely that such initiatives, especially when they refer to young people, must somehow be linked to what is happening in schools and children starting to learn in a particular area, at a particular time, for example, how a film is produced and not just to see the result. Such initiatives are totally in agreement with us, and I hope that we will work together in the future, not only for the Elias county but for most of the prefectures that have taken such initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u11	We now move on to the fourth with number 87/6-11-2015 topical question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Cremastinos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the prospects for the country's development. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, thank you. Minister, the development issue, as you know, is a major issue and it is not a question of a two-minute question. But I move it forward, because no one discusses this issue on television and everyone discusses poverty, inadequacy, problems, unemployment, everything, except the cause of all those who, as you know, are development. Because without investment and development, the country's health and education are doomed to being constantly degraded. Protests will be made, but in the end, the taxpayers will be degraded and, of course, the taxpayers will bear all these burdens and we are leading to a dead end. The question, therefore, is this: Every Minister for Development has the ambition - and rightly so - to bring about a law that leads to better days. So all the ministers are bringing a law and eventually, as they all say, some light in the tunnel, with 0.6% last year, 0.7% GDP growth. Now it looks like things are getting dark again. Mr Moskovis said he was seeing a recession both for this year and for time and possibly for the anti-christian to have growth again and you realise that these years will go badly. My question, then, is not what the law will be, which I hope is better, but if you think of something important and bigger, which I will develop in my dentistry. But, above all, I would like to ask you this. As the situation is with the existing development law, I believe that it does not work, in the sense that grants are not given and when the grants already approved are not given, that means that others do not put their money, that is, investors, in order to move the economy somehow. You realize that if you don't give the grants, investors don't put their money on and the whole economy goes off. I therefore ask: will you be able to give the grants that have already been approved? On the basis of these considerations, I would like to hear with great interest how you deal with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u13	The Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, Mr. George Stathakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u14	I will start from the first point of view with regard to the current course of the economy. I would remind you that this year, in 2015, every month, forecasts of the real magnitude of the recession are becoming more and more optimistic. Let me remind you that in the summer forecasts were that there would be a significant recession of 2% to 4%. About a month ago I had explained for a long time why the recession would be much smaller, it would be about 1.5%. Now the messages are even more optimistic, and as far as the economy is concerned, the recession is projected to close below 1%, to 0.8%. It is a very likely percentage, which means that the recession that has emerged would occur because of the economic situation and the difficulties that have arisen - is a set of things, along with the capital controls - eventually appears not to be it but it will be marginal. This is very good news, because it actually proclaims a positive sign of development next year. The second concerns the availability of resources to meet the needs of the development law. Let me remind you that the two previous development laws have had too many problems. There were six thousand three hundred investment projects, some integrated, some ongoing and one without even starting, with commitments of about 6 billion and an empty fund. The resources available within the framework of the investment laws with European origin or other sources of financing were 1.2 billion, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government found ‘frozen’, as the Commission had raised matters with the competent authority. So, basically, we started from scratch, having three very complex problems solved: Firstly, we should 'clean' resources. We did so last June, through a plan that we submitted to the Commission. Secondly, we need to clarify the projects themselves in a credible way. This means that the investment projects that have been completed and pending their verification and validation are methodically and systematically captured, that we see what is going on with a chance of integration and what is without any chance of integration. At the same time, we had to - and we must - seek additional resources, obviously because the amounts committed are too much. So we did three things in relation to what I told you. 'We have cleared up' resources, we are trying to clarify the procedure and at the same time we are preparing an intervention in this matter when we will have the full imprint of the integrated, the ongoing, etc., in order to speed up the control procedures. It must be a very different way of completing checks, otherwise there will be great financial delays. I would remind you that it can take two years to complete the checks. So, he needs immediate acceleration. There must also be a search for additional resources. We have opened some discussions to explore the possibility of additional lending for the needs of development. Furthermore, we need to see which of them and by what procedure they could potentially be shifted from purely financial to tax incentives. These are in relation to the development laws of the past. The truth is that the situation there is very problematic and the problem is quite difficult. We do our best under the circumstances, to see how this great loose ends from the past. Now, as far as the country's overall conversion is concerned, there are two points. The first, as you point out in your question, is the restoration of a strong climate of confidence, economic and political. I think that this confidence depends on the completion of the roadmap chosen by the government, the completion of the assessment, the recapitalisation of banks, the restructuring of debt and the creation of a climate of stability. At the same time, it depends on mobilising new institutional initiatives. Indicate three on the road: Firstly, the need for a new development law. This is a product of extensive consultation at the moment, with about twenty, social and entrepreneurial actors. It will be completed and will be here soon. Our second initiative is to set up a development council, which will play an important role in our commitment - I mean, within the framework of the agreement with the institutions - to present a development programme for the country next spring. The third issue is the attempt to attract new financial resources. I would like to point out a number of initiatives that have been taken in cooperation with the European Investment Bank, the new appearance of EBRD and its operation in Greece, the effort we are making to upgrade the EBRD and other development institutions and the mobilisation of tools for small and medium-sized enterprises which is also the tip of the spearhead. That's the effort we're making. We hope, I repeat, that the macroeconomic framework and economic performance in 2015 will create additional optimism that we will return to positive growth with certainty in 2016 and that the improvement of the macroeconomic framework, along with initiatives and strengthening development institutions and financial instruments, will create better conditions for speeding up the investments that we all agree will also be the solution to the country's development problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u16	First of all, I wish that your efforts will benefit, of course, from the good of the country. However, I have heard you say you are pleased that the recession will not be 2.5% this year, as calculated, but 1.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u17	I said 0.8%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u18	I wish it were 0.8%. But when growth last year was 0.7% and was expected this year to be over 1% - probably -1.5% or more, with a positive figure and now we are satisfied with the negative figure, that, of course, concerns me in particular for tomorrow. However, I would again wish that your efforts will succeed. But, Minister, I must tell you that we cannot understand certain things. It is now the sixth year in which the land and buildings are taxed. It is well known that there is money both inside and outside Greece, outside the banks, which could be mobilised if, for example, you taxed only the plots, since they would then build, that is, building production, there would be work, there would be growth in this sector. It's the sixth year now. Of course, you do not have the sole responsibility, all the other ministers and the government have it. But now at last you have to see this. So, until when are you gonna tax both the land and the buildings and until when will the world keep its money outside the banks or abroad and not mobilize them? This is a key question to which you must give us an answer. Because the tunnel is recession until everyone is impoverished so that some or some funds can come here to start development and invest. You also pointed this out as opposition and quite rightly. Now, however, as a government, you do not implement them. How do you explain this phenomenon? The second thing I want to say to you - I cannot advise you, you are a professor of finance, I am not, I have another speciality - is that I read the international magazines you read and perhaps better, which say that Turkey, for example, targeted 10 years ago to double its tourism and doubled it. And how did he double him? All the ferocious coastlines have given them, since they were not able to exploit them, to foreign businesses. And what did he achieve with it? Drop her unemployment. It merely asked for 80% of the employees to be native and 20% Europeans. He has actually asked in this way to solve the problem of unemployment and growth, and Turkey's tourism, which was then nonexistent, our tourism two or two and a half times more. We have the whole west side of the country completely unexploited. One unit was made in Navy and, if you like, the Messinia tourist map. Such steps could be considered and announced, and these could lead to visible development, which our neighbours have also made. On the contrary, we see that we are involved in development laws - I am talking about the old, I hope the new one is simple - but they do not answer basic questions. That is, if the development law is not competitive with the development laws of our neighbouring countries, then it is doomed not to succeed, to fail, for the simple reason that the investor will go to that country that gives him the most rate of success or profit or whatever you want to say. But when we make development laws which are lower than our neighbours, we have no chance of competing with these countries. The most unpleasant of all is that while not all of this is done and not discussed, on TVs every day all we are discussing is our misery and because wages each day go worse or because the world is on the streets - and today you see that we have a general strike - but the medicine is investment and growth. The medicine isn't to go out on the street and cry together, because we're protesting against who after all? Against the government? Against the country? The most important thing is that the occasionally ruled, when they were in opposition's benches, said exactly the opposite, zero excluding. And the problem becomes more acute, because you see that it is not even dealt with today. This general strike today doesn't worry you after six years of recession? These are the big questions, Minister, which we are worried about, and I think you should be concerned about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks is organized and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-three students and students and three teachers, from the 10th Gymnasium of Kallitheas (A' Department). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u20	I shall begin, Mr Kremastine, from your first point of view of turning growth into a recession. There has been a debate, I think, if it was worth the negotiation made by the government to change the macroeconomic framework from what had been agreed by the previous government in Memorandum 2. I would remind you that it was unbearable to implement the idea of a recession economy that was committed to producing 4.5% budgetary surpluses over the next five to six years. We thought - and rightly so - that the renegotiation of the loan contract focuses on the country's renegotiation of unreasonable budgetary surpluses, debt restructuring, which has been carried out - with this agreement for the period 2015-2022 and we hope that its second leg of public debt will be completed after 2022 and 2046. Therefore, for this period, which - I repeat - has caused problems, nonetheless, as a result of which I was in this pleasant position to announce that the recession will ultimately be marginal for 2015. The original forecasts were 2% to 4.5%, they had been down below 2%, and in recent weeks they have been below 1%. So we are going to a year which, for both the performance of certain sectors of the economy and the way the government has managed - positively, in our opinion - all the difficulties and especially the capital controls lead to this result. Secondly: Development Law and Europe. I must remind you that the rules of development law, regional incentives, that is, that is, the development law, are not laid down by us, are laid down in Europe's regional map. It is therefore inevitable that there will be stronger incentives in Europe's regions or where there is a lower economic level. The size of funding - the incentives - which can be provided by development law is determined on the basis of the map of Europe's regions. There I would remind you that we are doing two things: Firstly, we have asked the Commission to speed up the new regional map, because the one we use in Europe is 2011 and shows Greece high, while when the extent of the recession is captured, regional incentives will be strengthened. That is why we are calling for the process to be accelerated by a year. This will bring additional resources to Greece. We estimate that from the EUR 20 billion we will go up to about EUR 22 billion. I am referring to the period until 2020. And the second thing we do is to change the nature of the two old development laws with a new development law, which will overcome the problems. Let me remind you of the problems of the two previous development laws. The first and most important problem is that the laws are horizontal. Whether you make an industrial investment or open a private car parking, it moves about to the same logic of criteria and support. No targeting. He doesn't have any priorities. It has no attempt to turn resources into specific directions that have a greater development impact. As a result of the application of this law, the obvious thing happened: many investments were incorporated into the law, but there were no corresponding resources. These are the EUR 6.8 billion that I told you that it requires full implementation of the law, which they do not exist. At the same time, there was a failure to focus on the investments that are really prioritised in the context of a productive shift. Other important investments are mentioned. These have been financed by the law. One last point is the taxation of real estate. As you know, there's budgetary narrowness. The financial data are the ones that are and will remain in the context of balanced budgets, in accordance with the agreement over the coming years. However, every positive impact on the development of the economy, every positive sign, creates a budget space for changes in the taxation of immovable property in the direction you have suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u21	Minister, grants approved will be given?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u22	Yes, they will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the second under number 97/9-11-2015 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on development planning for the Drama Law is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. The third, under number 88/6-11-2015, top-stage question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotaras to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the bureaucratic obstacles to the production of the legendary Greek car “PONY”, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. The fifth, under No. 86/4-11-2015, timely question for the first cycle of the Athens MP, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the Ministry's attitude to address international assessors at the Schools of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible and deleted. The sixth question, under number 91/9-11-2015, is a top-level question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the lack of a clear legal basis for the counting of guardian of the school inheritances, is not discussed due to the impediment of the questioner and deleted. The first under number 94/9-11-2015 topical question by Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the need for the immediate removal of the vessel "Mytilini" from the port of Charlotte, Samos, will not be discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The third, with number 89/6-11-2015, topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the upgrading of maritime education, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth question under number 95/9-11-2015 is the second question of the Member of Parliament's Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - Democratic Left Mr.Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the self-relief of the Greek Open University, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fifth under number 929-11-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the auctions of the first place, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. We enter the debate of the second question under number 98/9-11-2015 on the second time question from the Parliamentary Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis on the delay in the payment of the single payment to Greek producers. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor. You will also have time tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are already on 12 November, one month after the payment of the advance payment of the single payment, and unfortunately farmers and farmers throughout the country are deprived of an unjust and irrational advance of one billion. The total amount is two billion. These two billions are one of the undeniable advantages of our country's stay in the euro, for which we alone - these benefits, namely - we as a New Democracy supported the otherwise undeniable agreement that you have brought us into the euro on 14 August. So one of these benefits remains unexploited for the time being and who knows when to see it in the farmers' pockets. In fact, these, Minister, are happening at a time that is unprecedented, as you can see, difficult for the economy and the primary sector, with the capital controls which your government has imposed and which strangle the already non-existent liquidity, with the inability to access bank borrowing, with the advance payment of farmers' income tax from 27.5% to 55% and, of course, with the new blankets that came to farmers for the first time tax on agricultural subsidies. Obviously, this unjustified delay has a responsibility and a name. It is the result of an unprecedented unprecedented absence and delay of your Government to issue for nine months the provisional management plans and to do what the philosopher people say, to separate 'two donkeys' to proceed with payments, even though you have received a ready legislative framework and a legitimate Community framework. Do you really remember, Minister, what you committed here on 12 June 2015 in a relevant timely question when I sounded the alarm? You made a commitment that by 15 August you would have completed the pilgrimage management plans. I am sorry that, today, after four months, not the final ones, but you have not even finished the temporary ones. And it is a pity, Minister, and your responsibility is even greater, because this year, on the basis of Community Regulation 1748/2015 of 30 September, for the first time, the Member States have the possibility of giving producers, because of the economic crisis on the agricultural market, not 50% of the advance we traditionally paid this year, but 70%. So, imagine what a breath this would be for rural households and the whole cycle of the economy that moves around them. You, however, throw it out of the trash because, as you know, this 70% advance is due back in a few days, that is, on 30 this month. After November 30, Minister, as you will well know, under Regulation 1306/2013 you cannot make advance payments, but you can only make final payments, which means having completed the physical and administrative checks. And when are you going to do it? A month left by the end of December? You will only be able to make final payments without the advantage of the flexibility of the advance. Because, therefore, the completion of the administrative and physical checks required, I doubt it will be completed, I would like you to give me a responsible answer on when and what the farmers will actually pay for subsidies, in what way, since the provisional rights have not yet been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, in attempting to condemn us, you are also inaccurate. You said in your written text that we have not drawn up the provisional management plans necessary for the payment of Community subsidies. The European regulatory framework or national legislation does not provide for the linking of the single payment by drawing up and implementing the final management plans or grazing plans. The purpose of the grazing management plans is to rationalise the use of these areas. This is why we are tabling a draft law in the House next week for grazing land. This is a visionary approach that will particularly mark the development of livestock farming. In fact, in order to avoid problems that could arise from the patenting of the rights of farmers for the next programming period, we have already entrusted temporary management plans. They are already ready and will be made public by the vote of the bill. With regard to the distribution of eligible livestock pastures, we have already proceeded with a technical solution and the evidence shows that all farmers will not just get their aid without any problem, but will also receive a higher amount. As far as payments are concerned, I have told the House before, and I repeat, they have been done, done and started from 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and they arrive until 2014. So we are talking about loose ends that show how your own governments dealt with farmers' rights. What about the single payment and the advance? You know, we all know that we have the implementation of a new common agricultural policy and this, as happens all times, changes the data and because of the change of data there is a delay. In the years that rural policy began, not normal years, payments were always made after 15 November. We have therefore planned that more than 70% will be paid by the end of November. But take it into account and contact farmers, and you and us that in the new common agricultural policy the amounts are reduced by 10% to 15%. There is also greening, 30%, which goes to February, and that must not be forgotten by you, because this common agricultural policy has been agreed by you and we are implementing it. When it comes to reform, which will of course end 2017, we will put forward our own proposals. Also, do not forget that, pursuant to Article 75 of Regulation No 1306/2013, the payments of direct payments listed in Annex 1 to Regulation No 1307/2013 are made from 1 December to 30 June of the following year and are paid in no more than two instalments. As regards payments for organic farming, the aid for 2012, including objections to all the counties of the country, has already been paid and payments for organic livestock in 2012 are planned and will be completed for both 2013 and 2014. So we close all the old ones until the end of 2014 and from there we enter into a new one and, as you can see, in these conditions that were formed is a great achievement that we have done so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Arabaji has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u28	Minister, because you spoke of inaccuracies, first of all, the temporary grazing plans, as I imagine you will be aware, have enabled our country to add more eligible areas, on the basis of the legislative framework that - I repeat - the previous government has succeeded and negotiated in order to make a more rational distribution and therefore to have more grazing land and thus our farmers are not wronged. This applies to temporary grazing plans, Minister. In other words, you would have had more eligible areas, so in the interests of the producers. Secondly, Minister, you have obviously misunderstood my words. I told you that, as you were due, you did not make the provisional rights. Temporary rights, Mr Minister, should already have come out and come out of the distribution that has to be followed. Let's not mention the KHS which you had done badly on 20-5-2015 and separated arbitrarily, unjustly and unjustly the regions of the country and the farmers in a first, second and third categories. I would also like an answer from now on: This advance that you commit for 70%, on the basis of what distribution will take place? I shall return as long as time allows me in this distribution, because there are some extremely interesting elements. You said 'inaccurate' and that every time the new agricultural policy started there was delays. And that is what you are using as an excuse to tell us that that is why you have delayed. Unfortunately, Minister, I will disprove you. Because in 2007, on the Government of New Democracy, you should be aware that 98% of the single payment was paid on 6-6/2007. In other words, 98% was paid in June 2015. This has been done in the new agricultural policy, Mr Minister. And we are talking today, and we have not even paid 50%! So, Minister, I call on you to take this back because the evidence clearly disproves you. And I would really like you to tell me: what procedure will you give temporary rights and what distribution? Why do you have information about the fact that you have been sent in full to the regions documents, which you ask the Vice-Presidents and the district managers, in order to fill your government's gap and uncertainty, to sign the distribution of pastures with an earlier date, i.e. 15-6-2015! Is this the case, Minister? If not, disprove me! In any case, Minister, by the end of December you will have to make it clear to the country's agri-foodstuffs world that it will not have 2 billion in its pocket, namely the payment of the single payment, as traditional and years have now been taken by farmers and farmers. So let's hear what you're going to say. You were tied to 70% by the end of November, which I personally doubt. Tell us: by the end of December, what will farmers get and give us a specific answer to the distribution, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u30	I do not want to open the debate, but just to say that the distribution has been made through a technical solution. There will be no problem for farmers throughout Greece, that is, we will not notice last year's problems, the alalum of how much one and the other were getting. Because if we were to agree with the proposal you made, we would send the Serres' farmers to Yannina and Laconia's farmers to Epirus. This is not going to happen this year. Since you are insisting on the management plans, I would like to tell you this: I have dealt with this issue for too many years. For two and a half years I have been trying to convince the former leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development that the solution to the problems of farmers is the management plans that we are now discussing. Of course I did another year to convince the Ministry of the Environment, ours, that that's the solution. But we are in the final phase. Today I'm telling you he's being filed. And because this delay was predicted from our side, the provisional plans are also ready, and we will only need to guarantee rights. As far as the payments are concerned, which I repeat that there will be no problem, they will be as I said at the end of November. From there on, the announcement of allocations is a matter of one, two or three days. These are the payments. However, I would like to make one thing clear, because it sounds - perhaps from you it has not been heard, but from your colleagues - that 'we will come agricultural and vote'. To make one thing clear, that on 17 July all those who are in favour of the country's European course, particularly those who are involved in agriculture, knew that by voting on this agreement all the things that concern the common agricultural policy and, of course, having a draft law, which all these unpleasant effects that are coming to the rural area, we knew about it, we saw them. We have already committed ourselves, at least from our side, and on Election Election Election Election Election and post-election, to alleviating these consequences. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] We are now in the run-up to a negotiation. There are a lot of scripts. We've been through this before. We don't have time to talk about it again. We will try to do so. So do not you say, 'We have no way of voting on these', since we have already voted on the basic guidelines. You realize that from there on for the details, he wants coexistence in this effort, so that we can do better. So don't put it logically that, because we voted on the agreement from now on, we have nothing to do with the agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u31	Do not seek accomplices, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u32	Minister, before you leave us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u33	We voted for the agreement with the equivalents that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Arabatzis, nothing is recorded like this. But, before the Minister leaves us, I would like to give an answer for a minute to the specific question that has not been answered. 70% of what is it? Because there is another 70% in 1 billion and 70% in 500 million. So 70% of what amount is it? That was asked and not answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u35	And when the whole thing will be paid to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Apostle is not afraid to answer. Possibly I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u37	The single payment is a sum of about six hundred. You realize that 70% will be a sum of about 1.1 to 1.2 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u38	Okay. I asked you to have a specific answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u39	In total, of course, they will be paid. We're planning on going up. We will see these things, however, because it has to do with greening. We will see what we will transfer from greening to current payments. It needs a complicated process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u40	What about repayment, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u41	However, the farmers will get more money than the ones they had taken...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u42	However, because you are a practical person, because I have heard a phrase that I liked, 'visual approach', about the draft law that you will table, I hope we do not stay on the vision, but go on to the practical result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u43	I will tell you, Mr President, only one thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u44	And payment, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u45	Imagine thirty million acres of low vegetation to share in three thousand farmers what a visionary approach this is, in terms of the future of sheep and goats.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u46	For payment, Minister, you have not responded!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u47	When many ministers do not come, we have the opportunity to have a more lively conversation and a more comfortable one. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to thank Mr Theonas, who is always here, whether he has or does not have a question, as does Mr Davakis. Thank you, too, for helping the project. Thank you, too, for the record. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-12-S1-commons.u48	With the agreement of the House at 10.38 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow 13 November 2015 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) legislative work, according to the agenda distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny: topical and urgent debate.
