ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I enter before the Parliament of the Greek Parliament on the special agenda my proposal, dated 8-3-2015, as President of the Parliament, for the re-establishment, re-organisation and upgrading of the intergroup parliamentary committee to claim German debts to Greece, claim due compensation, corrections, repayment of the forced mortgage and the return of the stolen archaeological treasures. The debts of Germany to Greece and the Greek people by the atrocities and disasters committed by the Nazi forces in German occupation, by the suffocation of archaeological treasures by the occupying forces, but also by the forced loan that the Bank of Greece had to grant to the Third Reich constitute an irresponsible obligation, a debt history, moral, legal and economic to our people as well as to humanity. The crimes of the 3rd Reich are classified in the most infamous crimes humanity has experienced: genocide - a crime that was for the first time foreseen by an International Convention in 1948 to photograph the size of the Nazi crime - crimes against humanity and war crimes, indiscriminately under International Law and indelibly engraved in the collective historical memory of the peoples. The Greek people, due to their strong, emblematic resistance, suffered ruthless retaliation, extermination, executions, hunger, misery, destruction of the country's infrastructure, the convening of antiquities and a humiliating obligation to forced lending of the occupation forces. The testimony of the atrocities and executions, as well as the unscrupulous places of memory remind the younger Epic of the Resistance, as well as the unapproachable wound left in the country the sufferings and potentials of the Second World War. The Greek Parliament, noting the frugality of governments to claim this historic debt, has been mobilised already since 2012 in order to organise together and parliamentaryally the claim of German debts to Greece. The Committees on Economic Affairs and National Defence and Foreign Affairs, after two joint meetings on 20 and 28 March 2012, reached the joint conclusion on the need to claim these German debts. In September 2012, with his letter from 25-9-2012, the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and current Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras asked the then President of Parliament Evangelos Meimarakis, pursuant to Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, to make a recommendation for the Intergroup Committee on German compensation “with responsibility for gathering and documenting in an organised manner the undeniable historical elements that will make the Greek argument capable of claiming the rights due and of assembling other European forces in this effort”. In October 2012, the top 10-10-2012 question was followed by "The debts of Germany to Greece", on behalf of SYRIZA, the then MPs of the Officers of Manolis Glezos, who had the relevant initiative, Agathopoulos Irene, Athanasios Nassos, Alexonopoulos Apostolis, Amanatidis Yiannis, Amanatis, Amanatidos Litsas, Apostolos Vagelis, Vambanis, Vambas, Vatsis Nicos, Gatis Dimitris, Yeltaris, Dimitris, Germanos Thanasis, Geravasilis, Gervaryos Kollas, Georopoulos - Saltanis, Dorhis Kostatis, Aristakis, Aristis, Aristis Kostalis, Aristis, Dimantios Vassilisilis Vasilis, Dimantis Vasilisilisilis Vasilisilis, Iotis Vasilisilis, Is Kantis, Istanis, Istanis, Istanisilisilis Kantis, Istanisilisilisilis Kantis, Istanis, Istanias, Istanis, Istanias Kantis, Istaniasilisilisilisilisilisos, Istanis, Istanis, Istanis, Istaniasos Kantis, Istaniasos Koris, Ieris, Istanias Kantis, Istanias Kantis, Ieris, Ieris The topical and urgent debate was held in plenary session on 24 April 2013 and was then recorded, at that historic meeting, a common will and commitment of Parliament and government to claim German debts. In his letter of 4 February 2014, the then Deputy Prime Minister of SYRIZA Manolis Glezos reinstated the issue and the request for the establishment of the Intergroup on German debts, in line with the pending request of the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which was in September 2012, but also the previous meetings of the Committees on Economic Affairs and National Defence and Foreign Affairs, which were in March 2012 and the ID' Parliamentary Period, as well as the mid-term debate in plenary, on the timely question of SYRIZA Members, which was in April 2013 and the IE's MEP. The proposal of the President of the SYRIZA was unanimously accepted by Parliament at its meeting of 27 February 2014, when it was introduced by the then President of the Parliament, Evangelos Meimarakis. The decision of the President of the Greek Parliament, with which a Intergroup Committee was set up, was followed by the decision of 21 March 2014 under Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure to claim German allowances. The committee, chaired by the New Democracy MP Kostas Javara, with Vice-Chairman of SYRIZA Manoli Glezos and then, after the resignation of Manolis Glezos, due to his nomination as a Member of the European Parliament, Panagiotis Kourublis, held nine meetings, heard experts and academics, gathered valuable material from competent departments and before the dissolution of the House of the previous period, planned extroverted actions, contacts and communications with Parliaments in Europe and with the European Parliament, as well as international events in our country. In particular, he planned an event - address by the President of the Italian Constitutional Court Professor Giuseppe Tezauro, whose No. 238/2014 decision of the Supreme Court, which repositions the issue of claims for war damages in the light of the constitutional order for full and effective judicial protection, contained in and negates modern European constitutions and European texts for the protection of human rights. He also planned an international conference on German debts, involving world-wide personalities. The Committee, pending and having requested information from services and bodies, requested a deadline for the submission of its report by 31 March of this year instead of the original deadline of 31 December 2014, while members expressed the opinion that the Committee should be active as long as the Greek State and the Greek people are active towards the German State for the debts from the Occupation and Nazi Atrocities. With the dissolution of the House, the holding of national elections and the emergence of the new Parliament, the present, the MP's term of office, the question of the re-reconstruction, reconstruction and upgrading of the committee was raised as a moral, national and historical debt, which Parliament is called upon to take over and to carry out. My speech, from 6 February, as President of Parliament immediately after the election of President, and from 6 February, also, 2015, by protocol number 5, by the Letter of Members of Parliament Yannis Stathas to the Prime Minister, the President of Parliament, the Minister of National Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice in relation to the implementation of the decision of the Multimember Court of Livade - this historic real judicial decision - which became irrevocable with the decision of the House of Lord Pagos and, in this connection, also the letter of 27 February 2015 of the same Member on the reconstructing of the committee on German compensation. Since, according to what has been said, the claim of German debts to the Greek public and to the Greek people is, undeniably, a national issue and because it is a well-known acceptance of the need for activation of the archaeological treasures in this case, for these reasons I propose the re-establishment of the Intergroup Committee for the vindicating German debts - war compensation, corrections, repayments, reimbursements of the stolen archaeological treasures - with responsibility for continuing and completing the gathering and documentation in an organised manner of the undeniable historical elements that will effectively strengthen the Greek arguments on the claim of debts and the coup d'état of other European forces and international organisations in this effort, including, for this purpose, conducting contacts with other European Parliaments and with the European Parliament, but also with European institutions which have dealt with similar cases, as well as with the organisation of conferences and conferences in order to raise awareness of this European public opinion. I also propose that it be formed with the participation of the President of the Parliament and of the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament on the model of the committee referred to in Rule 49A of the Rules of Procedure or their alternates and with care for proportional representation of all parliamentary groups and, at least, one MEP from each parliamentary group, in accordance with the more specific definitions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I propose that Rule 37(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure should not apply to the committee's meetings, noting that the members of the committee during the previous parliamentary term also decided to be unpaid. I also propose that the definition of 15 July 2015 as the deadline for the submission of the first findings of the Committee with the possibility of renewing its mandate and term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is introduced to the House in accordance with Rule 44(1) of the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that Bourgeois can, on a proposal from the Government or President of Parliament or from the Presidents of Parliament, be a committee of its members for the study of national or more generally relevant issues. I would remind you that according to the same Rule 44, committees on national or more general interest issues consist of one twenty (1/20) to one tenth fifth (1/15) of the whole number of Members. The sittings of these committees may, by decision of the President of Parliament, be attended by Greek MEPs, provided that they discuss matters relating to their mission to the European Parliament. I simply note that we have the bright luck of being a Greek MEP, Manolis Glezos, who has first come to this claim. I would remind you that it is by decision of the President or the President of the House after the plenary decision and that all the provisions providing for the setting-up and proportional representation of the parliamentary groups are applied mutatis mutandis. I suggest that we proceed with the debate, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the general question, in accordance with what has been done in the past and in order to have a total representation and representation of the House. I would like to point out that the parliamentary groups of all the parties involved in this House have been informed in order to set up a first seven cycle of speakers and have proposed by a Member to represent the parliamentary groups. Each MEP from this first cycle will speak for ten minutes. As you know, if the parties wish, they can submit a list of speakers and I think that the parliamentary groups have already submitted lists of speakers. I would remind you that the speaking time of the other speakers is seven minutes. The ministers are entitled to speak for up to eighteen minutes of the hour, and it is the speaking time of the Members of Parliament's groups provided for in Rule 97(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary representatives shall be entitled to speak, as far as three times as possible, in a protology, dentext and three minutes in their tritology and in analogous application of the time cut to half if the President of their parliamentary group has been placed beforehand. I would like to inform you that the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are given priority, then the parliamentary representatives and then the speakers. If there is no objection to the procedure, we can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u4	Mr Georgiadis has the floor in the capacity of the Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u5	Yes, sir. Madam President, the initiative for Parliament to discuss the issue of German allowances and mortgages is all commendable. After all, the New Democracy, which had taken the initiative of becoming the committee with the other parties unanimously in the previous House, could not object to such a debate. But, Madam President, you are a little confused. You are asking us to have the debate on the basis of Rule 44 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I read in Parliament's Rules of Procedure what Rule 44 provides for, which describes precisely the procedure for this parliamentary debate: ‘Plath 2: The proposal submitted to the President of the Parliament in the previous paragraph may be accepted by the Parliament without debate, without prejudice to the right of the Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups to speak for two minutes each. Since the committee's recommendation disagrees with at least one parliamentary group, I do not know whether there is a parliamentary group in the House that disagrees - 'the proposal is placed on the agenda after one week's submission and is then discussed on a day of parliamentary scrutiny in accordance with the provisions of Rule 137'. You, Madam President, went directly to Rule 137 without even asking the House whether the parliamentary groups agree or disagree. So you have violated the article you invoke. Our question is about the substance. What substance? This is an issue that must unite all Greeks. This is a matter to which we must make national consensus. It is not a subject offered for cheap political impressions. Is it possible, Madam President, in such a debate that all the Greeks united in the House, without consulting any party, on its own, without the Conference of Presidents having taken place, without informing the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups, to put the debate on the agenda itself at the beginning of the debate? Note that no one has asked whether they can be here at 19.30 and that you have delayed the start of the central debate, unless you think that MPs are people who have no obligations and are obliged to follow you in your schedule, but does not mean that this is correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u6	The first duty of Members is to be in Parliament, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u7	Of course, it is in this House, Madam President, but having consulted each other on the procedure and the agenda. You, not as President of the House, but as a tyrant, come on your own, order... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, it has never been in this House before. Never! On an issue that the President has to unite us has decided on her own!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u9	And she didn't decide on her own, and she decided on her own. I repeat - and this is my question - Madam President: since you know that there is a unanimous decision of the previous House, since you know that all parties agree, once you know that, why should you do so by yourself, without calling on any party to join with you? Why are you infringing this article yourself - I read it just before - and enter a debate in this House without you having the right to do so? If your goal is to unite all the Greeks for a fair request, you obviously start wrong. If your aim is now to say that only you and no one else are interested in this issue, then obviously that is the exact backward message from what this House needs to get out of here. I would ask you, therefore, to tell us which procedure, on the basis of which article you specifically ask us to have today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Georgiadis, you were probably absorbed in objecting and did not observe that I referred to the process of developing the proposal in the House in 2012, when it was another the formation of parliamentary forces and in the process that was observed in 2012-2013 and in the chairmanship of the previous committee by your left-wing Mr. Javara, who was excellent. You will agree that the seriousness of the issue, which has not been objected to by any parliamentary group, requires that this Chamber emerges and that this consensus and agreement, which you have just culminated in, should be brought to bear. As you would have heard - or if you did not listen, I will repeat this - about the procedure not only have all the groups been informed, but also speakers have declared priority and parliamentary representatives. So is your group. And you will be confirmed by Mr Plakkatakis with whom you are currently discussing to confirm. No parliamentary group raised any objections. No parliamentary group has attempted what you are currently trying to do. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has asked for the floor and then, because I do not think it makes any sense to deceive this matter, I will give the Prime Minister the floor, who has asked for the floor, and in any case beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, we are on a point of order. Mr. Prime Minister will be speaking on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Petrakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u13	I shall speak on a point of order, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that continuing to insist on the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman on procedural matters is a tripartite one, and the national and patriotic dimension that this issue has, as has been pointed out by the letter of the President of Parliament - and it has been repeated - mentioning all the events that have taken place and the contribution and participation of each party in the formation of the committee. I would therefore ask the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy not to continue a 'procedure', which leads to a straitjacket, instead of discussing and launching a debate on the substance of the issue, which is, I repeat, the re-establishment, the re-orientation and upgrading of the committee to claim German allowances and the loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u14	Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today not only for symbolic reasons but also for essential reasons. First and foremost, to pay tribute to the victims of World War II, but also to honor all fighters and fighters from all over the world who gave their lives for their homeland freedom, who gave their lives to defeat the Naziism that threw its poisonous mist upon the peoples of the whole world. I also take the floor - and I think that all the representatives of the House must do the same today - in order to honour - and I think that all of us must honour and therefore we must debate today in the process of restoring the committee - the fighters of the Greek National Resistance who gave their lives to get our country out of the Nazi atrocity and occupation, so that we can have a country that is free and sovereign today. Some say to us: Why do you oppress yourself with the past? Look at the future. But what country, what people can have a future if they do not honour their history and struggles? What people can move forward by eradicating their collective memory and leaving their struggles and sacrifices historically unjust? After all, it has not been that long since then, ladies and gentlemen. It's still the generation of Occupation and National Resistance. They are still fresh in the collective memory of our people the images and sounds of torture and executions in Distomo and Cesarean, in Kalavrita and in Vianno. They are still fresh in the memory of our people the crimes and disasters caused by the troops of the Third Reich throughout the length and width of the Greek territory and of Europe as well. These memories should be maintained in the younger generations. We have a historical, political and moral duty to maintain them, not to maintain suspicion and hatred among peoples, but to always remember what it means to be Nazism, what fascism and what it has brought to modern European history, to remember that, when the position of solidarity, friendship, cooperation and dialogue between peoples, it takes a sense of supremacy and historical destiny, when the position of respect is taken by intolerance, racial or social, then war and darkness. Europe has known this darkness, lived it, paid it dearly, hated it. That was one of the reasons why the European peoples decided to start the proceedings after World War II, so that the war sirens never sound again in Europe. We must not forget that the German people have suffered equally from the Nazi atrocity and that in Germany Nazism prevailed, precisely because the German people were previously humiliated. That, of course, is not an excuse, but an explanation. It is the lesson of the short 20th century, as Eric Hobsbaum would have said. After World War I, what prevailed was hatred and reunification, what prevailed was the short-sighted logic of humiliating the loser for his sins, the logic of humiliation and impoverishment of an entire people for his defeat. This option was later paid with the blood of the world’s nipples, Germany including. The peoples of Europe and their leaders must remember and draw conclusions from modern European history, because Europe must not make the same mistakes today. Ladies and gentlemen, after World War II, the suffering has indeed become a lesson, and Germany, despite the crimes of the Third Reich and the Hillerarchy who burned the world, despite the total evil of the Holocaust, has benefited and rightly benefited from a series of interventions, mainly with the deletion of its debt, the debt it had since the First World War, the convention that took place many years after World War I, in 1953 in London and of course with the huge sums disbursed by the allies for its reconstruction. However, the London Convention at the same time recognises that the final German allowances for World War II remain, which had to be settled by the final peace treaty which was not signed until 1990 because of Germany's division until then. The reunification of the two Germans after 1990 created the necessary legal and political conditions to resolve the matter, but the German Governments have, from then on, chosen silence, legal deeds, deferral and parade. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a lot of talk in the debate that is taking place at European level on ethics, is this a moral attitude? I spoke earlier about legal tricks and because these issues are very critical, I would like to explain clearly what I mean so that they do not remain shadows. When Germany even accepts to place itself on the issue of its debts to Greece since World War II, it invokes our bilateral agreement of 1960, when on its own initiative it paid 115 million marks as compensation and the then Kingdom of Greece acknowledged that Greece has no further claims in this regard. This agreement, however, did not involve compensation for the disasters suffered by the country, but compensation for the victims of Nazism in Greece. And, of course, neither was it the forced mortgage, nor was it a claim for compensation due to war crimes, because of the almost total destruction of the country's infrastructure and the dismantling of its economy during the war and the Occupation. All of this I know is at the same time extremely technical, but also extremely sensitive, and perhaps it is not the space and time to expand now. The necessary clarification and technical processing will not be carried out by me, but by experts. It must be done and done by experts, lawyers and historians. What I would like to assure both the Greek and German people, however, is that the new Greek Government is aiming at and that is why it urges the national delegation as a whole and the committee that will now be reconstitute to approach the issue with the necessary sensitivity, with a sense of responsibility and honesty, with the availability of consultation and dialogue. But we also expect the German Government, for reasons of political, historical, symbolic and moral. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of an ethical tone that has prevailed in the public debate in Europe in recent years, we do not choose the position of the disciple who bends the head and lowers the eyes towards high moral teaching, nor do we claim the position of the moral teacher who is praising the finger against the alleged sinner, asking him to pay for his sins. On the contrary, we are choosing the path of negotiation and dialogue, mutual understanding and justice. We are not doing justice here, but at the same time we are not giving up on our irresponsible claims. We don't teach morals, but we don't take any moral lessons either. Because, you know, many times lately, in listening to many provocative statements from abroad, I am thinking of the famous quote from Jesus ’ Sermon on the Mount: “They see the spike in their brother’s eye, but not the beam in their own eye.” Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, by closing this brief speech, I do not think many words are needed - I would like to assure you that the Greek Government will work unnecessarily so that on equal terms, through the dialogue, in the context of an honest negotiation, it will help to find a solution to the complex problems facing Europe. It will work to ensure that Greece - and we have said so - fulfil its obligations fully, but at the same time it will work to meet all the unfulfilled obligations to Greece and the Greek people in full. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And as we commit ourselves to honouring our obligations, all parties must do so too. Because invoking morality cannot be a card, it cannot be occasional. The new Greek Government will indeed support with all its forces the initiative to reconstruct, reconstruct and upgrade the committee for claiming German debts and the forced mortgage to Greece. We will support it genuinely and essentially, not for communication reasons. We are prepared to offer every political and legal assistance to ensure that the efforts made by this committee are done. The time has come for them to deliver and within the framework of her mandate to have a real effect, to have a solution, to justify this unfulfilled moral, but also a material historical debt not only to the Greek people, but to all the peoples of Europe who fought, sacrificed, killed and defeated Nazism. We owe it in our history, we owe it to the fighters of the National Resistance, we owe it to the victims of the Second World War, but we owe it mainly to Europe and its peoples, who have a right to memory and, above all, a right to a future liberated by all kinds of totalitarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you to the Prime Minister. I would like to inform you that the debate is being followed by the National Council for the Claim on German compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, nineteen students and students and two educational sessions from the 7th Municipal School of Mytilini. You are attending a historic meeting. We welcome you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the list of priority speakers, the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group Mr Evangelos Venizelos asked for the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is a session dedicated to historical truth and historical justice. We had the opportunity to talk about this in a fascinating and clear manner in the House in April 2013, when the first major parliamentary debate took place in plenary. It is an opportunity, in fact, to highlight the historic truth of Greece's special contribution to the Second World War, in the fight against Nazism and fascism, to highlight a common national heritage, which is the memory of the Greek National Resistance, to recognise and honor the disproportionate sacrifices of the Greek people in human lives, in buildings, in infrastructure, in development prospects, but to remember, here, in the Greek Parliament, that after the war and the Occupation, it was followed by the Civil War, followed by the long period of the post-war state, which has disappointed us from national, political, social development. The fact that we have been followed by the long period of the post-war state which has disoriented us from national, political, social and development and the fact that the civil and long term of the paradigm and post-war democracies followed has direct consequences for the way war redress and the mortgage loan were not claimed. This concerns even the archaeological treasures. I am therefore pleased that the House today is doing an act of national unity and consensus, because even today the Greek society is experiencing an attempt to maintain an artificial division that passes through the people, the society and the nation. I am referring to the artificial division of so-called memorial and supposedly antimony, the desperate attempt to maintain a policy which is in fact disguised and disguised in a painful way. It is therefore very important that a genuine exercise of national self-knowledge really is based on the search for truth, because that is what leads us to errors and humiliations. Eventually, it is the charm of the lie that has troubled the nation historically. Of course, it is very important to remember the foundations of European integration, which is the institutional parity of the Member States, as well as the existence of rules at pan-European and international level, because the existence of rules protects the smallest and not the largest. The legality - European and international - is the one that shields what it usually needs. That is why it is also very important to say a word that needs to be heard in the Greek Parliament. On the womb of both World War I and World War II, nationalism is found in various forms, nationalism of both the right and the left. Nationalism may be blind, but it can also be supposedly bright. It is very important to think that nationalism is not only manifested in the great nations, in the large and powerful states, but also in the middle and small states, in peoples and societies that are wrong when adopting versions of nationalism. It is also very important to say explicitly and unequivocally, speaking in this House and internationally, as an international act of international law that the question of Greek claims by German redress and mortgage loan has been raised on a number of occasions and in a political and legal manner to the Federal Republic of Germany since the signing of the Treaty of unification of Germany, when the issue became legally and legally binding in the financial communication given by Greece to the Minister of Carlos Papoulia in 1994, in personal contact with the then President of the Hellenic Republic of Kostis Stefanopoulou to the German counterpart of Rao in 2000, but also in many even more intense and clear legal ways, the top of which was the decision of the then government of PASOK, adopted by the Government of cooperation of Luke Papademos to intervene in the trial of the International Court of Justice in July 2011, namely the most critical phase of the Greek financial crisis, in the very difficult part of the very difficult economic crisis and the European Union, in the very difficult part of the very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance when the Greek Republic's Government decided to intervene in favour of Italian and German views in The Hague in July 2011, in a process completed in February 2012, just a few days after the large agreement on the second programme for the haircut of the Greek debt, for its restructuring, to form the framework within which Greece is going to date. And it would have come out of the memorial and judgment if it hadn't become the big recurring toward the unknown! And Greece intervened in 2011 at the International Court of The Hague, contrary to the rulings of the Greek courts. Because we have to say to the Greek Parliament and also to the Greek people that the Greek supreme courts and, ultimately, the top of all, the Supreme Special Court under Article 100, is what it thought the State immunity was in force for the Federal Republic of Germany and the relevant judicial decisions cannot be enforced. However, despite the existence of these decisions at the highest possible level - irrevocable - the Government for political and historical reasons decided to intervene with the International Court of Justice in The Hague. Not only that, but he welcomed and supported an extremely sensitive act of the Israeli Community of Thessaloniki, which appealed before the European Court of Human Rights, claiming compensation for the ransom that the Israeli Community had to pay to the infamous Merten in order to avoid the depletion of the Jewish Community of Thessaloniki. Unfortunately, however, in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, as well as in the case-law of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, the concept of State immunity is still without any crack in the case of international case-law. It is therefore very important for the Hellenic Republic to prepare itself politically and legally, to have strong arguments not only for politics, but also for the procedural strategy, if we want to speak specifically, responsibly, and say a truth to the Greek people, not a narrative, which sounds pleasantly, but does not work. There are negotiating rules, negotiating methods and lessons from negotiation. We have long-standing conclusions from the Working Party of the Legal Council of the State which was set up at the initiative of the previous Government and which I asked as Foreign Minister to be transformed into an official opinion of the Plenary Assembly of the State Council on the legal handling of the case. This meant calculating the claims of the Greek State. This calculation was made by the General Accounting Group of the State with the help of the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was submitted to the Minister of Finance on 19 January to me as Minister of Foreign Affairs on 20 January 2015 and was transmitted on the day to the Legal Council of State, in order to complete its expected official opinion on the course of the case. This issue has been raised at all levels. He put it first, as I said, by Charles Papoulias as Foreign Minister. However, I had the honour and responsibility to put it as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic to all the Foreign Ministers of the Federal Republic of Germany, with whom I met, Mr. Gido Westervelle, Mr. Frank Steinmayer, Minister for Finance, Mr. Volfgang Soibble, in Chancellor Merkel together with the Prime Minister and President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr. Gau on his official visit to Athens. For all these diplomatic actions, relevant communications from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which constitute critical political and legal documents, have been issued. A little, before the elections, when the German Treasury spokesman publicly stated that there is no question, because this has long been settled, there was a statement of mine that kept the matter open. And this statement was delivered by private communication to the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, this has not been done for the needs of internal communication, it has not been done with excessive and unreasonable statements. It was done in the context of a national plan with objectives. And the goals are served when you have prepared the political but also the legal handling of the matter, because the political issue is being raised and rejected at the moment. So you have to be ready to take the next step to another level and choose the field you're going to move in. And under no circumstances should you link this to the open negotiation of Greece's exit from the crisis, to Greece's exit from the memorandum, to the return to the normality of a Member State of the Eurozone that is truly equal, not because it thinks it or because it says so, but because it can actually impose it on the basis of the Greek economy. It is therefore very important to see this issue, as we should see all other issues of national strategy and negotiation. Because if we deal with this issue, the big issue of the historical justice and truth of German corrections as we face the current major issue of the national strategy for exiting the crisis, we will simply lead to a dead end. And I don't think the Greek people have tolerances to listen to myths or experience multiple deadlocks. On this occasion, I would really like to congratulate the President of Parliament for its initiative, which could be consensual. The proposal could have been submitted by both the Prime Minister and the President of the Parliament and the Heads of all the parliamentary groups. But it doesn't matter. The initiative is welcome, it is self-evident, because the committee was in the previous period and must be reconstituted and continued to work. And I agree that Parliament must have a detailed, even luxurious debate on these issues. But where are the big issues of today's and tomorrow's national strategy? When will the House discuss what is hurting the Greek people, about what is dominating the public debate every day, all day? When are we going to discuss the extension - who signed it? - the programme, the memorandum, the main financial facility contract? When will the House talk about what the whole information system in Europe is talking about, but also the international one? When are we going to talk about what determines the fate of the Greek people and enables the country to claim its historical rights? A major text binding the country on very important issues was not adopted in Parliament. He has been signed in violation of the Constitution. It has not come either under the type of debate before the agenda, nor even in the form of brief statements by the Prime Minister to Parliament. The days pass! The weeks go by! Parliament demands its role on historical, national issues and does well! However, does not its institutional and democratic role take the lead in the current issues of the fate of its place and its future? Are we going to forget the future, committed to an active but historic debate? Is it possible to list Parliament's priorities at the plenary level? Shouldn't the House be talking about the real priorities of society, the economy and the nation? This must be explained not by the President of the Parliament who cannot replace the government, but by the Prime Minister present who cannot remain silent on these big issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you to the President of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Parliamentary Group. I would like to say, of course, that at the moment I thought there would be a confusion between the two questions you have put to us, not to be confused. I would like to make it clear that under the Rules of Procedure of the House, as is currently the case, the Prime Minister, the Presidents of Parliament and the President of Parliament have only the right once per regular session to submit such proposals. So I think you will agree with me that it was not wise for us all to take advantage of this right with the signature of a proposal, which I am pleased that this House accepts as collectively required, but on the contrary, it is important to move forward with the debate and, in fact, the major one. Mrs Kanellopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u19	Does the Prime Minister want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u20	Mrs Maria Kanellelopoulou, the first speaker to speak on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor. I would like to inform you until Mrs Kanellopoulou has gone to Stepma that there have been lists of speakers from the parties. However, there is the possibility for those Members who wish to join as speakers to do so during the position of the first two speakers, namely Mrs Kanellelopoulou and Mr Javara. Mrs Kanellelopoulou - you are attracting your origin from Kalavry - you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Nice Attica and Doxato Dramas, Viannos and Candanus and Anogia, cut to Arta, Kalavrita and Distomos and Anchovies Magnesia, and Highest Photidas and Kerpion and Achaias Roots, and, and, and... So far, ninety witness places have composed the "holocaust of our normal memory", to borrow the title from Stelios Kologlou's excellent documentary. In these ninety witness places we owe our ability to be here today and to discuss in a democratic and public manner what we are discussing. We owe them the fact that there are free elections in this country and that the government is allowed and chosen to be left. In these and many other people in the Balkans, in France, Poland, Russia, Norway, Denmark, Italy, in all these villages and cities, Germany itself owes itself the fact that today there is not only a rule of law, not only as a state of democracy, but simply as a state. And that is what the German people must not forget, that their right to express their opinion even against the Greeks, the Spanish, the Italians, the Portuguese, the Irish, or any other scapegoats, owes it to the 13.5% of the Greek population who disappeared, it owes it to the millions of Russians who were executed and fallen, to the thousands of Serbs who were exterminated, to the millions of Jews who became tobacco and soap. The German people today detest Nazism and are struggling to get rid of this shameful historical burden. And that's right. And we support him and congratulate him, because every people have the right to rectify his mistakes even if they cost humanity and civilization themselves. However, the thousands of Vermacht, the "SS", the Gestapo, the Luftvafe and the armoured who bleeded Greece, did not come from the moon, neither from Sirius, nor from the Moon, as their local descendants are commanded, and I am impatiently patronizing the patriots, still celebrate Hitler's birthday and beat tattoos with swasticides and unblemished crosses. On the contrary, they came from a country of regular, say, men, fathers, brothers and sisters, and grandparents. Of course, this does not mean that responsibility, penal decency and reproach are inherited. However, while criminal liability is not inherited, the obligation to rectify is inherited under international law not only because war crimes and crimes against humanity are indiscriminate according to international customary law, but mainly because this requires the very concept of the international community itself. The coexistence of nations and states has other and moral bases. The obligation of Germany is also moral, and therefore necessary for its effective coexistence with the other countries of Europe. Peace, ladies and gentlemen, is not amnesty and memory cannot be selective because it is the guardian of history and peace, it is our property. And this undisturbed memory we are now mobilising for our fair claims, supporting our initiatives in the most exhausting documentation that can be found. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Greece's claims are based on four facts, according to the documentation of the National Council for the Claiming of German Compensations, whose soul and power are all these years the sustainable, our hero, who does not stop surpriseing all Europe with its strengths and struggling steadfastness, Manolis Glezos. Let me briefly refer to the data we base: First, in the loan signed by the Third Reich on March 14, 1942, from Greece and where the Third Reich signed that he would return at the end of the war, worth $3.5 billion and that he has not returned. It should be noted that the powerful III Reich from all the occupied countries of Europe alone concluded such a loan. It remains, of course, to see the indexation of this amount on the basis of current exchange rates. Secondly, the military corrections that the twenty-nine allied countries have called for Germany to pay to Greece for the requisitions, grabs and disasters that have caused its Nazi occupation troops to the material and technical wealth of the country, which amount to $7.5 billion and for which there is not even one brand! In these amounts neither was the robbery of the fake German mark nor the one and a half tons of silver and the three and a half tons of nickel from the melting of the coins or the gold of the Bank of Greece. Thirdly, in compensation to Greek citizens for the removal and destruction of their property and the removal of invaluable human life. The German governments consider that they allegedly paid off their debt to the hundreds of thousands of victims with the funny figure of 110,000 German marks that gave in 1960 a shameful transaction for the release of the Merten war criminal and the referral of war criminals to Germany to be tried by the German courts. Not one has been convicted! Fourthly, in the archaeological treasures taken from museums and archaeological sites. Lists of them have been published and are available at the Archaeological Service and at the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. I quote the Acropolis marbles that were cut off, stolen and destroyed by the German soldiers with bayonets and other tools or Sounio, where pagan Nazis did not show respect to their gods, the Mycenaeans who removed plaques from the circular shed of the graves, while in 1943 they grabbed bronze sculptures from the grave of Adreas. Also, they failed to shoot the lions decorating the gate of the palace. There have been irreparable disasters and countless losses in antiquities in Olympia, Corinth, Aegina, Chalkida, Thebes, Bergina, Knossos, Gortyna, Samos, Potidaia, Pythios of Elassona, Halkidiki and equally significant disasters in Byzantine, post-Byzantine and medieval monuments. We shall use every legal instrument in our fight. I note and recall the decision of the Italian Constitutional Court in 2014 on the basis of which there is no justice in favour of Germany for war crimes. On the basis of a decision taken by our committee at the previous session, the invitation to the President of the Court of Justice and the rapporteur of this decision, Giuseppe Tezauro, to speak here in Greece. We will pursue the most extensive institutional and political shocks. The International Conference on German corrections, which was recorded in our intentions of committee during the previous Session, continues to be our goal. And here, of course, I should like to wish ladies and gentlemen, for the work of the committee to be exemplary. Let us all work to ensure that these work is a model of Parliament's operation and a stage in the political consultation. The parties to the whole democratic arch - and when we say 'democratic arch', we do not mean it as a empty shirt, as those who in the media and in the social networks are also saying 'Greek' and 'Soible' - must show that, where unanimity is imposed - which can be achieved - at least let the understanding prevail. We do not need a museum, ornamental committee that will wash out politicians and politicians who have damaged the place with their oligopoly for so many years on the subject of German corrections. That's a lot of talk. We'll say more. But what action actually needs is action. We are no longer being watched by the dead of what should be officially recorded as "Greek holocaust". We are not being watched by history, which is not born unless we write it down. The followers are our young, our children and grandchildren. Their kids. Because that's the story. And history is Danish of them. Greece, for which we are making decisions, is a loan from young people like Paul Bryssa who was murdered by the Nazi ancestors, those who broke the country forty years ago. We owe them the truth. We owe them the redress.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u22	Madam President, how do you allow her to speak like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u23	From Rethymnon, Lasithi, Chania, Boeotia, Fokida, Yannina, Arta, Kefalonia, Pella, Thessaloniki, Kastoria, Florina, Naoussa, Drama, Magnesia, Larissa, Arcadia, Laconia, endlessly the red marks inside the map.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u24	Rescind her in class. He doesn't have the right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u25	And it's definitely blood. We owe them one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u26	He can't offend us like that. Did justice decide something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u27	Please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u28	They're the ones we owe. And it's our priority. We're here, we're standing, we're free! Let us restrain ourselves and begin this struggle for memory, for blood, for treason, for dignity, for democracy, for justice. For all this, which is our homeland! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Maria Kanellepoulou. The Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Quiet, but with his assent, I would like Mr. Kostas Javaras, the second priority speaker, to be able to close the record cycle and also to honour him for the service he offered as President of the Intergroup in the previous parliamentary term, managing the work of the committee in an exemplary manner. Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u30	Madam President, thank you very much for the honour. Indeed, I believe that this moment in Parliament, where it is introduced to discuss your proposal to re-establish the Committee on German allowances, is an important moment. And this day could, with all the value, be regarded as honorable. I congratulate you, too, on your initiative, but I would like to see national consensus prevail in this Chamber today because it is a national issue, and a national issue is quite obvious that it goes beyond all the dividing lines between ideologies and between ideologies. All the dividing lines which were set up in the committee by a decision of the previous President of the Parliament, Evangelos Meimarakis, were indeed done with your own contribution and all colleagues. All the decisions of the committee have been unanimous, and the work of this committee is indeed one of the prerogatives of which will draw useful evidence and the new committee. In these hours, I would indeed agree with the President of PASOK, who was an excellent speech, that there is a matter of historical justice. And historical justice, of course, for us Greeks should not only adopt Greek-centered issues, because Greek-centeredism is one of the aspects of historical life that has not always benefited us. This Greek-centeredism, of which we will always be concerned, and we will always be ensuring that we have it in our soul, should be accompanied by our demands from a method and a crisis. After all, the words of this wonderful intellectual, Constantine Papaioannou, who I always remember, make it more necessary than ever to have a philosophy of the history of the Greek nation than a narrative. Because in the narrative we are all capable, and in very nice words, memory can be described in the most characteristic and effective way. There, however, that we often get bored is in methodicity and efficiency. In fact, today more than ever - and I think many of the majority party have stressed it - we need more works than slogans, we need more than methodical moves. And I think that very important moves have already been made through this committee. The first is the awareness of international public opinion, which we will serve as in the previous committee. The organization - as you have mentioned, but I think the Prime Minister - of an international conference calling for a meeting here in Athens of great and high prestige of intellectuals, politicians and diplomats, university professors of international law, in order to consult in this conference as well as in order to give a scientific conclusion on the basis of the requirements of the Greek state, both for the return of the forced loan and for the other outstanding claims concerning the war redress, the individual demands of the victims and the return of those cultural monuments, which have been conducted by the occupation authorities. It is indeed a great contribution to the committee - I believe that we will also have the opportunity in this committee to have their help - both the professor, Mr Flogaite, who, with the European Public Law Agency that he has set up, was able to provide us with invaluable services. In fact, he is the one who has intervened and had the opportunity to invite the committee the President of the Italian Constitutional Court, Professor Giuseppe Tezauro. I believe that this will also be done with the committee being set up. Giuseppe Tezauro, as has already been said - I think you have mentioned it, Madam President - has given a new perspective in the implementation of the constitutional provision which, as an individual right, confers the right to legal protection which must be full and effective. With that in mind, therefore, the Italian Constitutional Court considered that the principle of the immunity of the State, the principle of immunity, in order for national courts to give full and effective judicial protection to the demands of citizens concerned with the rectification of the damage suffered during the Occupation. Somewhere here I think we need to finish the cosmopolitans. I would like you to accept an objection to the question you raise about how this committee will be formed. I saw that in your request you mentioned that this committee will be set up in accordance with Rule 49a of the Rules of Procedure. I consider this particular provision to be the way in which the committee is formed, in which the President of the Parliament is actually chairing and the Vice-Presidents of the Parliament are involved together and those Members who are left with the time to complete the fifteenth. It shall be responsible for verifying or expressing an opinion on those appointed as Directors, Governors or CEOs to public utility bodies and generally to the ECPO. I understand that this is an indirect upgrade because it is indeed an honour for the President of this House to chair the committee. It gives the authority of something very important to strengthen the radiation that this committee will have internationally. But I think that at the same time it deprives Members of the opportunity, whose case is the exercise in this Chamber of popular sovereignty in a real, real way, it limits them precisely the number of participation in the establishment and composition of this committee. I therefore think that it is also a question of whether it is possible to go beyond the explicit and specific provision of Rule 45(3), which, of course, in particular - you have said so, too - I think, too - is what is served by the President of the majority, the Vice-President of the second-Chairman in a series of parties in the parliamentary power of the parties, and so on, that is exactly what ensures the unity that is necessary and necessary in order to serve the study and documentation of such a major national issue. That is why I think we must allow this provision of the Rules of Procedure to function and in some way not to go into a method of regulatory immunity, which, of course, the House is sure to do. I think we don't have a need like that. But what I think is going to be pluralism in the new committee will certainly be homogeneity, patriotism and national dignity that is needed in order to serve such a very serious issue. As a last word, I would like to say that the money given in 1960 - of course, the Prime Minister left it to be seen, but I think it has to be done in concrete terms - was not the money with which none of the three chapters were compensated, the three grounds of claim mentioned. It was 115 million marks, which were given for the rehabilitation of victims of the ideology of Nazism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. So with this ideology we are all opposed by Greeks now, homogeneous and unanimous, we will offer our services to this new committee, which is sure to serve its purpose. Above all, in these critical times, what is important - because there are unfortunately no international jurisdictions that can effectively offer us a solution to our demands - but what we need to do - and we will do so - is that we will use all the means offered to make our request acceptable to international public opinion and whoever has so far won, whether or not he has found favourable jurisdictions, international or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. At this point, Members shall be registered with the electronic system. Mr Javarra, I would like to make it clear to you that the proposal to participate in the whole of the Bureau, not just of the President, is to stress the importance that this House attaches to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u32	I get it, and that's why I made the report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u33	From there on, of course, if there are any vice-chairmen who wish to be replaced, this possibility is also given, and certainly the parliamentary groups will also have the freedom to form their representation in this committee. After all, the ratio with Rule 49a, of course, has nothing to do with the subject, but it is only about the formation, that is, of seventeen Members, as provided for in this parliamentary term for all the committees made up of thirteen or fifteen members under the Rules of Procedure. It is an increase in the number to which we have made, in order to ensure the representation of all the parliamentary groups with at least one MEP, because there are many groups, which accounts for 0.53, 0.63 in representation, and that is why this has been taken care of. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr. Kostas Quisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be extremely brief and will not make use of the time I am entitled to. I think not only that this is a historic day, as has been said, but I would like to congratulate the National Council on the German debts today. This is a body that has not just been cross-party but has for over twenty years been self-determination, unselfishness, pain and hardship, and has started a struggle that has been embraced by the whole of our people and not only the martyrdom cities, not only the restoration of historical truth and historical memory, but above all their work is about the need for international legitimacy to prevail and at last our country to be able to play a role that suits it in the 21st century. I would like to convey a unanimous decision of the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and the Minister of State and the Secretary-General of Foreign Affairs, and of the Secretary-General and of my own personally, where, together with the presence of the representatives of the National Council for German Indemnity, we held a very important first meeting yesterday, which will not be the last but should be enriched in the near future and with representatives we had yesterday, both from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and from the Ministry of Education and from the Ministry of Culture. I would like to inform you that for some time now the historical archives of the Armed Forces have been enriched by possession of about four hundred thousand documents from the United States which have recently been acquired and which relate to the calendars of Vermacht and the occupation armies in the period '41-44 in Greece. These are in a digitisation process but we believe that this is a very important wealth that needs to be open. We decided yesterday that this wealth of knowledge, a historical record, should be opened to all academic institutes, to universities, to students, to schools and to every citizen who can now have free access to these historical archives, which are not only for historical research, but also to enable them to enrich, Madam President, the work of this committee, because there are four aspects which I would like to mention. In these documents, an initial assessment made with the archaeological archaeological excavations in the period '41-44' has been carried out with a few partners and a little human resources. Mining, exploitation and exploitation of precious metals in the ground, destruction of historical monuments, desecration of historical monuments but also destruction of airports, ports, streets, bridges, houses, which are not only part of the historical archives of the Greek Army, but also of the occupation armies. This is of great value, because we understand that, when what is recorded is from the conquerors, there is no question of claiming certain debts which are documented, not only by name but also by any value of human life but also by lifeless material. Also, the second point. I agree with what has been said that we need an internationalisation of this request, which is not just a bilateral standstill between Greece and Germany, but also has an international dimension, because it violates not only the Geneva Treaty during the period of World War II but also records the modern legislation on stolen treasures, where we must resort to the strongest arm of the UNESCO, which is UNESCO, and there must be substantial international research, in museums, in public and private collections, in order to cross-check the elements in our hands, with those which are illegally and irregularly in other hands. Of course, it is important to help the Ministry of Finance in order to cost, not only the value of each item but also the illegal collection in various museums around the world, but also in private collections that have been collected for over seventy years. Third element. It is extremely important that this claim should begin with this international conference mentioned before, which should be attended by the leading intellectuals around the world, historians and especially descendants of Australian and New Zealand soldiers who have already contacted the national committee, who today as instructors of university and child soldiers from New Zealand and Australia who left here their souls, in this place and especially in Crete, are the most enthusiastic supporters of the ultimate recording of historical truth and the compensation of the occupying loan, as well as the treasures. This international conference is not an easy case, but it is a start which unfolds a national strategy, a palatarian patriotic strategy in our country, which will find, not just supportive but will find minds, hands and feet that would really help this difficult task. Thirdly, the lesson from these files I mentioned - and this is perhaps the most important element - is that it should be a teaching material in our education, which is lacking terribly and criminally for the teaching of Nazi occupation, so that our education must be anti-fascist, because it is just as patriotic and internationalist, to be targeted. Not only the historical acquis of the struggles of our people but also to know today and tomorrow because there is a need to activate every anti-fascist struggle of our people and our people. I would also like to express an unequivocal disagreement with something that has been heard, which is condensed in an absolute and unacceptable historical equation, that the nationalism of the Left with the nationalism of the extreme right somewhere is identified and perhaps the reasons for the uterus of the First and Second World War. It is not just a historical poaching, but a reading which has been very fashionable for many years. I would like to remind you that patriotism and internationalism for our Left, and especially for our country, has been recognised not only by the protagonists themselves, but is the greatest legacy of the historical memory of our people, which passes through generations and generations and will continue this for other generations. Fourthly, if this committee really needs to carry out an important task, this work must be extended to the whole of Greek society. In local government, universities and schools, in the areas of youth, in the workplace. Why? Because only an effort that takes a real social and popular character and not a single parliamentary and institutional character will be successful in helping this effort, particularly the anti-fascists and democrat Germans, such as top constitutionalists, lawyers, teachers, historians, who today give an unequal struggle in their homeland and are a minority. Nor should we forget that in 2013 the so-called "Greek-German friendship Pact" was signed by the government of Papandreou and the then government of Merkel, which unfortunately creates heterogeneous conditions regarding the interactivity of academic institutions and other private bodies - powerful bodies - in Germany, who can come to our country to visit the martyr cities. But, in a different way of reading history, they are resorting to easy financing of local and regional societies, so that they can be called upon in Germany and, somehow, crime can be forgotten and is equated as a natural development of history, which during the war period cannot be prevented. This is very important, colleagues and colleagues, so that the committee will also have such a target. I close by saying that the responsibilities of all of us in this Chamber are heavy, so that we do not become the victims of bureaucracy. The bureaucracy will need but it will have to be effective, effective and effective, and it will have to give society a day-to-day examination. The Ministry of Education, the Ministry of National Defence, which, as I told you before, opens its doors to the entire Greek society, in order to provide food and oxygenation to the necessary documentation whether legal or historical or social, as well as to the Ministry of Culture, would contribute substantially to the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The committee itself should also give an institutional role and value to the national committee on German allowances, which should also have a representative in the committee of Parliament permanently, in order to help, be here and support our efforts with the wealth they possess, since this struggle is not just individual and personal, but is a collective struggle and a reserve that will help us in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u35	We thank the Minister, in particular, for highlighting the existence of these four hundred thousand documents, which will undoubtedly help further document this requirement, this claim and that debt. I cannot recall and remember that there is very recent experience of a government player, just four years ago, who claimed that there is no record and that there is no evidence of this national claim. On the other hand, I cannot recall that the previous committee's term of office under Mr Javarra lasted, and we had the opportunity to see that not only are there elements but that, in all the departments of the ministries, valuable evidence is saved that is precisely to strengthen this claim. On behalf of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the SYRIZA rapporteur on her divining skills in political, outlawing cases, which will take place - we hope - within a short period of time, in order to finally clarify the very complex case at the expense of the Golden Dawn. Secondly, since SYRIZA's rapporteur spoke of a selective memory, we would like to tell her about some of the events that had occurred in Halanderitsa, which are also in its area, in Melilla, in Stiaga, in Agionori, in Fenos, in Litochoro, in Litochoro, in Kilkis and elsewhere, where tens of thousands of Greek citizens were slaughtered in the worst way, not by bad German nazis but by people who ran Greek blood in them. Today we are calling on to discuss the re-establishment, reconstruction and upgrading of the intergroup parliamentary committee for claiming German allowances, corrections, repayment of the forced mortgage and the return of stolen archaeological treasures. And quite rightly and correctly, the President of the Parliament is referring to upgrades. But how can an upgrade be made when in today's most serious debate - truly serious for moral and practical reasons - the Chief of Golden Dawn is absent, who would have a lot to say - his speech would certainly be of interest. The parliamentary representative, Mr Christos Papapas, is absent, who was the first to have, when we entered the Greek Parliament in May 2012, given a press conference on the fact that there should be a direct demand, first of all, the occupying loan and, along with it, the military compensation, which is something different and much more difficult. How can we talk about upgrading, when Members are absent, and this House is still not a Chamber of Three hundred but is a House of ninety - three? And I would like to comment on the new court rulings of the prosecutor of Korydallos Prison, who, again, is actually mocking when he does not give permission on the one hand for Members to come to this House today's plenary on this most serious issue, but, on the other, he has given permission to come to the House's Liberation Committee and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the House. And it has been done with the same positive thinking to come to these two committees which are of a procedural nature and to the very opposite reason for today's plenary as well as for other committees. It is a situation which shows that the wrongdoing is still trying to keep and humiliate above all the institutions and those who represent them in our country. I would also like to reply to the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who had, in his earlier speech, spoken of the assent of almost all the Members of this House. Really, I'd like him to tell us who's exempting. Because, as we said, the Golden Dawn - since it entered the Greek Parliament, the first press conference it gave was for the loan and for its immediate demand. Does he mean those who have been ruling this place for decades and have been doing the duck on this most serious issue? Does it mean those who, as modern-day looters - many of whom have the same brands as the holders - have been pounding and still stumbled by German hatreds, those who have inflatable and inflated their personal accounts - such as the mayor of the Calabrians, who has renounced German allowances with some stupid excuses - in order not to speak, claim nothing from the Germans and anyone else? Perhaps, why were those who oppress this place and who are timeless servants of the Germans? Why did the Germans never leave our country and through the company do their part? And you know very well what we're talking about. Also, the Prime Minister referred to those who accuse you of going back to the past, that you are not looking forward, that, that... That is exactly what your colleague Berd Rixinger of your brother Die Linke did, who in his statements to a German newspaper on the matter of the mortgage, said for a moment: 'We cannot look back at the past and it will be good to look at the future'. So to know what anti-fascists around the world say about the issues of anti-fascists here in our home country. It urges us in a few words to forget the mortgage loan. Only the Golden Dawn, as we said before, has made it clear and clear. We must claim the German allowances up to the last euro, the last drachma - say what you want - and the mortgage. Not because we want to make a political spiral, but for reasons of substance, I repeat, first of all, with military compensation and secondly with the mortgage loan. It's two issues separately. They shouldn't be consolidated. And when we talk about a mortgage, we are not only talking about the 11 billion that our own - not our own, the parliamentary designated - six-member committee. The amount is much higher. According to the most thorough study in our country, the amount is EUR 100 billion and at a standard interest rate of 2.5% is well above EUR 500 billion. So it's not 11 billion. It is 511 billion and possibly more. And if that sounds crazy and great, let's take the views of the 'bad' Germans. German Professor Hagen Flisser, an expert on this issue, had made a sum of 100 billion euros. And the magazine 'SPIEGEL' has made a sum of 54 billion euros. They are huge sums that our country needs. It is burning up for these amounts and nothing is going on in the substance. It must not be mixed - very important - with compensation, corrections, because the gravity of the national demand is weakened. They are separate - we repeat - issues. German compensation is much more difficult. The mortgage loan is something that exists. The Germans paid it up to October of '44. It exists in the archives of the Bank of Germany and the Bank of Greece and could claim, directly demand and be a powerful negotiating weapon for Greece in these difficult hours our country is experiencing. But Germany also paid off the mortgages, the forced loans it had entered into with other countries, such as Czechoslovakia, Poland, Yugoslavia and others. Really, for Greece - we are the only country - why didn't that happen? Was it for the reasons we said before, that the anti-insuranceists of all shades were stumbled by the hates, "did the duck," did he help them? Because they were allies, don't forget it. The 'bad Germans of 1944, since 1945, the next day, they were allies against some other evils, who were allies until 1945 and they went by saying. The irrationality of all his majesty. Really, as we have said, why is the direct claim of the mortgage not being used as the strongest negotiating paper available to our country at the moment? Because the other recent Minister of Finance, Mr. Varoufakis, when he was found with Mr. Shoeble, with Mr. Diaselblum, did not sing a word about this most important and most serious issue. We will not tell you what the previous committee did. We consider it to be inappropriate because the majority did not care for a result, for the reasons that we had before us. Anyone who doesn't want to ferment, after all, is sifting ten days. We hope that this committee will work much faster, more efficiently, much more slenderly and - we repeat it, it is important, and we will propose it - it will have to distinguish these two, i.e. compensation from the mortgage. Perhaps for all these reasons, the "bad" Golden Dawn tells things literally by their name and it does not hide for either good or bad, it makes us the war that makes us and degrade the institutions and is not here the executives, the Chief, the Parliamentary Representative and other MPs in charge of the Golden Dawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. Mr. Spyros Lykoudis from Potami, F Vice President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise at the outset that the proposal for the re-establishment of the Parliament's intergroup on the claim of German corrections and compensation and the repayment of the mortgages finds the river parliamentary group fully in agreement. These are serious and complex national issues which have been dealt with in the previous House as well. I do not know the contents of the work he has done. I assume that the new Intergroup will take this into account, will continue and complete it, so that it can submit its findings within the deadline set, namely 15 July of this year. Because if this is not the case, that is to say, the completion of the work of the previous committee, it would not make any sense to reconstitute it in this House. The new committee must complement its work with new elements which might arise and come to a unanimous conclusion, which will again be adopted unanimously by Parliament, so that it will also be the country's national, united position. A number of remarks on this issue, which has been raised in full consciousness of the national responsibility of all of us, I think it is absolutely essential. Firstly, in no case should the work of the intergroup should be the subject of party controversy. This is a national matter. Secondly, there should in no way be any leaks that fuel speculation and other relevant ones. I mean, this is not a question of internal consumption, if, in fact, we mean that we must claim what is allowed us by the International Law on Compensation, Repainting and Debt Loan. Thirdly, for no reason can the House become a step or a body of our legitimate values. That's why the state's competent bodies are there. We can't substitute them. I note on this, the recent answer by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Dimitris Marda, dated 3-3-2015, to a relevant question by Mr. Dimitris Kyriazides, where he underlines that at political level, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible. Here I note that we were informed yesterday - and today this was confirmed by the Deputy Minister of National Defence - that a meeting was held in the Ministry of National Defence on this matter. We have heard some conclusions from this meeting. I believe that there is an extremely useful interest in any ministry, any minister and any Deputy Minister on this serious national issue. I assume, however, that we all agree - and I say again - that the matter is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I wonder if the intergroup will be aware of the report of the Special Committee, which was delivered by the Deputy Minister of Finance of the previous government, Mr Stagira, on 8 January 2015 and which is characterised by Mr Mardas secret. Will the cross-party, both her and perhaps other secret reports, become aware of the subject? Will he be aware of another secret report - a conclusion of eighty pages, delivered on 8 March by another committee under Mr Panagiotis Karakossi, on German allowances, following an investigation and processing of historical archives? Will we have the opinion of the Legal Council of the State? Is the committee's meetings to be kept confidential until the completion of its work? I would argue emphatically that all this must be observed. Fourthly, I note the statements made by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs on European Affairs, Mr Nikos Hountis, on 9 March 2015, following his meeting with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, responsible for European matters, Mr Michael Roth, to whom he raised the issue of borrowing and German allowances. Although we have not been particularly enthusiastic about the German counterpart's answer, it has been stressed:'that Germany and Greece remain friends and partners within the European framework and that there are loose ends, such as the issues of borrowing and German allowances, which we believe can be dealt with', I use the expression as they are. I would like to point out these statements, in order to emphasise that it is our responsibility not to put oil on the fire of hysterical nationalism, but to approach these complex problems, in a spirit that suits relations between partners within the same European context. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of all the suffering suffered by our country during the Occupation by the forces of German Nazism, Fascist Italy and Bulgaria. Everyone knows them both in Europe and in America and in the rest of the world. It's been seventy years since. Let us seriously put our demands today, which for various reasons have failed to do before governments, although there have been démarches and private communications, such as the one on 14-11-1995, which is of particular legal significance. A huge volume of material has already been collected. The new intergroup will have to make good use of it, because, as far as I know, the damages, the loan and the fate of our cultural treasures are concerned, they each have their own peculiarities and they need great - I repeat, great attention on our part, so that we do not prejudge the appropriate moves to safeguard our national interests. So far, we all know that the German attitude is negative. Recently, on 9-2-2015, the German Vice-Chancellor and leader of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Zingmar Gabriel, said that on the issue of compensation, the possibility - as he said - is zero, raising his own legal arguments. In my view, however, I also have a number of concerns on legal matters from our own legislatures, such as Mr Giannis Papanikolaou, honorary Vice-President of the Ice Bay, who, in his note in April 2014, bears the title: 'The foundation of Greece's legitimate claims against Germany from the mortgage loan under our national law', is developing a series of serious legal arguments. There is also a number of publications concerning the calculation of the amount of our claims. It is good to know their sources and their credibility. It is also clear that the issue of the disappearance of our cultural treasures has its own important aspects. Among other things, it is known that many ancient objects are ignored, despite the efforts of the Directorate for Documentation and the Protection of Cultural Heritage of the former Ministry of Culture. Also, with some publications, state museums in Germany, they manifested their readiness to return to us ancient sections that were taken there during the German occupation. Furthermore, since the 1947 registration of the Ministry of Education, destruction and loss arise from museums or archaeological sites of the period of Italian and Bulgarian occupation. Have we claimed them? Are we going to claim them from these countries too? With all this in mind, I would like to highlight possible difficulties that may be presented along the way to the completion of the work of the Intergroup, in the hope that we will overcome them. At the start, ladies and gentlemen, of the new Intergroup Committee, it remains for me to express on behalf of the River Parliamentary Group my wish that the work of the committee be quickly completed, so that the competent political bodies of the state will weigh our national interest and take the necessary steps to ensure that it is successfully pursued in a climate of national consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr Colleague, let me inform you that this report from the General Accounting Office of the State - which you mentioned earlier, on 8-3-2015 - was one of the reasons why the previous Committee had requested the extension of its work and I am sure it will be one of the first elements to be considered by the new committee. Also, the report by the Legal Council of the State is an essential element which should also be placed in the knowledge and processing of the Committee. I will now give the floor to Mr Georgios Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece and then to Mr Nikos Hountis, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, on European affairs. Mr. Lambroulis, Mr. Vice President of Parliament, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of German debts, compensation and corrections in Greece is not today. Of course, today we have a new committee, which will obviously continue the work the previous one has done, and we believe that it will have a faster rate than the previous one. After all, we have said again from the outset that the problem of German compensation, rehabilitation, etc., is not a matter for a committee, it is not a technical matter, it is an extremely political one. The main issue, as we will say below, is a question of the government's political will. The Government must take the initiative immediately and demand that it claim the costs of the German State. All the other things are - let me speak - that is to say, a debate. As far as the Communist Party has concerned, over 20 years ago the Communist Party has not stopped with questions, with topical questions, asking questions to raise the issue - and not only in recent years - in all the governments, trying to keep the issue up to date. There are four issues on which the Greek requirements are based: Firstly, it is the forced mortgage that our country was forced to pay to the German occupation forces, which amounts to many billions of euros. All data are available at the General Accounting Office of the State and at the Bank of Greece. Secondly, there are the requirements of our country for the infrastructure disasters suffered by German troops and bombings, and so on, the war acts of the occupying forces at ports, airports, factories and other infrastructures which have been destroyed, as well as other disasters, the snatching of agricultural production, livestock, etc. Thirdly, it is compensation for human victims, murders, executions, etc., for acts of violence resulting in the loss of human lives. Fourthly, the major problem of repatriation to Greece remains the archaeological treasures stolen from the occupation forces. A first and decisive observation and political point is that until now, seventy years after the collapse of Nazism, no government has taken substantial initiatives and no government has demanded the complete fulfilment of the Greek requirements. Some sporadic moves have been made. Some statements by government actors since the 1960s have been made to date and may have recently seen the light of publicity. However, to date, no official initiative has been taken and no government has demanded Greek law by the German governments. There is, of course, an exception with minimal results. On 18 March 1960 with the Bonn Convention, an insignificant amount of -115 million marks - was allocated for compensation only for certain specific categories of Greeks who were prosecuted by the nazis, due to religion and race, excluded - with the explicit reservation of the contract - of the other claims for compensation and corrections. This fact shows that there is recognition by the German state of its obligations. That is why there must be a direct follow-up to the Greek claims. You are aware that in the committee set up in the previous House on the issue of German allowances, as a Communist Party, we were actively involved with proposals, comments and points. Today when the proposal is made for the committee to be re-established, as a Communist Party, we have no objection and of course we will be involved. But we need to make something clear from the beginning. As many initiatives as this committee develops, any meetings within the country as well as any conferences or other communications consultations and conferences, and if it does, will not have any substantial effect, even if the current government does not decide to take a specific, immediate initiative and demand specific things from the German state. We're refocusing on it. They have absolutely no meaning to any statements, however sharp they may be. The main point for the Communist Party is that the demands must be made in particular. It's a quid pro quo. In no case can we accept the continuation of this policy which is simply discussing, convening, making statements and no initiative at all. So we are the main question we raise is that. What does the government plan to deal with the problem? What is her specific proposal, what is her thought of escalating her activity to demand German allowances, corrections, etc.Huh? We want specific answers, because we think the issue is overtime now. What happened in the recent past, i.e. looking for the General Accounting Office of the State to find details, codes, etc., or to placements, formalities, if you would like, that all this effort is made to see any Greek demands from the German state, this "accident" is very dangerous and does nothing else than to refer the problem to the Greek bells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. I would like to say to you that you are quite right to point out this word - which is not at all random - the 'accident' which has actually invaded the establishment of the General Accounting Committee of the State. I was the one who, as a member of the committee for claiming German corrections, immediately pointed out that this 'accident' undermines the claim, and after that, the committee unanimously decided to protest and ask for the word 'accident' to be removed, because the demands are enticed and unsuccessful and not questionable and alleged. Mr Nicos Houndis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, our government, through the speech and the Prime Minister, had the opportunity to assure Parliament and the Greek people that claiming the loan and the corrections, was our historic obligation. On the occasion of this debate, the proposal for the reconstruction of the committee already in existence in Parliament, we are given the opportunity to reaffirm this commitment - demand and say to you, ladies and gentlemen - but also to the Greek people - that we will organise this political struggle, on the basis of a fair claim that must be made from the past, accounts not in the narrow economic sense but in the sense of morality and political turn. We must look towards the future and settle the accounts of the past, which caused these irreparable disasters in our country. As long as this problem is not dealt with, it will remain as a standstill if it was finally incorporated into the vision of the future by all concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, we must - and this is our aim - accept these claims of the Greek people, be morally and politically accepted by Germany and pay the loan and pay the compensation. I would like to say to you - it has already been mentioned - that both the Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias and I, at our first meetings with our German counterparts, Mr Steinmeyer and Mr Rot, have raised this issue. What answer did we get? The most recent official response on the part of the German Government, Mr Steinmeyer, is a permanent position we have heard for years - one would say - 'Germany knows the political and moral responsibilities for the atrocious events in Greece between 1941 and 1944 but does not change anything in our view. We remain immovable in the view that all matters of compensation, including borrowings, are legally and definitively settled.’ We therefore have, on the German side, to deal with this. We consider it to be an escape from Germany in the face of the moral and historical obligation to the Greek people. It is evasive because it does not recognize how the so-called "German miracle" was shaped and what they call "The Europe of the Postwar" was shaped. Why? Because this 'German miracle' is due to the fact that Germany's debts have been cut off in 1953, we had the opportunity to say it, we know the example - it also received a development clause in this regard from the twenty-one countries that Germany had to pay back. We're not netting, we're comparing. Therefore, in the name of this behaviour of our country, in order not to drive things as they were driven after World War I, where the insulting conditions imposed on defeat - and in World War I - Germany have led to the payment of the crisis, for which the German people were not to blame - with unemployment and deflation, so that we go to fascism and the World War - something must be done. The solution that was then given to Germany's loose ends and to which - I repeat - the Greek Government has also led things differently. On this basis, we have the additional obligation, the additional right, to raise this issue - unfortunately, they did not put it before governments - on its moral and political side. Previously, efforts had been made by members of the European Parliament of the SYRIZA and of the coalition and, possibly, other political forces - I do not want to blame them - on what will happen with the loan and the disasters caused by the German occupation. The European institutions have already said that they cannot give us an answer, because Germany is divided. I'm talking before her union. After joining Germany, the European institutions responded that this is a bilateral problem, because the full control of the budgets of the states does not have it by the European institutions. But the problem arises when our country entered the memorandum and the monitoring of the budget is in the European Commission's ultimate control. It is a matter of concern. Is this a European issue? We say it is. But we want this problem to be solved bilaterally. When it comes to bilateral relations, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of this kind. Mr. Venizelos insinuated it. I don't blame him. He said: "Don't make up for it with the current situation. Do not go against the question that we owe because of the loan contracts, because they owe us because it is not right.' I would like to remind Mr Venizelos and those who accuse our Government of not putting it this way, because it is primarily political and moral, that the issue of netting has not been put on the Greek side. The German side put it in the first loan contract, in the bilateral contract concluded by the Greek State with the German bank, where there the Germans put the clause: "Do not make up for what we lend you, with what you may have against our country". This, ladies and gentlemen, what does it show? It shows that our arguments must be held well. Because I heard Mr Venizelos again in his political intervention saying: 'What a division is that? Memorandum powers and antimonetary powers.’; I should like to say to him, on this occasion, that the division is not the result of a policy pursued by the governments and paid by the Greek people because it was no longer able to withstand sacrifices. The problem with the Memorandum Policies, ladies and gentlemen, is, among other things, that they were based on their justification on stereotypes denouncing the Greek people, namely that the Greeks are lazy, they are corrupt, they are wasteful and they are therefore worthy of punishment. We'll borrow them, but they deserve punishment. I have to tell you, because many times the political contexts of this period put you on such issues and highlight such political issues, that many times, when the Greek Government claims certain things, it sounds 'does not respect the rules', 'it produces nationalism', 'he is populism'. I would like to say to you that the formation of policies, the dictating of policies in a state - and in this case the memorandum of policies in Greece - on the basis, among others, of these stereotypes, is the worst form of racism, because it divides people into workers and lazy people and regenerates the ground to develop nationalism, in fact hiding class interests and the national interests that are served by these policies. Therefore, the refusal of the Memorandum of Understanding, the weaning of the loan contract by the Memorandum, among other things, is a responsible, European, cultural attitude and decisive claim of our own government, which protects us from the traps that are being found. So let's not abuse what populism is and what nationalism is. We therefore have to deal with this policy. We are not netting them out in our claim, because they have their own self-determination. In other words, the issue of the borrowing and the question of the corrections has its own self-interest, its own self-evident element and value. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this political analysis, we will claim it against Germany. One more thing, because it has been linked to the claims and negotiations made today by the Greek Government, once again, Mr Venizelos - let me do so - reminded me that if you do not respect certain rules, then populism and nationalism are going to another situation. I have had the opportunity to say once again during the programming statements 'NAI' to rules such as they are in the European Union, in the Eurozone, with which we do not agree, and so on, but rather to a selective treatment of one country's rules or obligations vis-à-vis another. And if there are obligations in our country that are negotiated or discussed, there are obligations in other countries such as Germany in this case, and the selective application of the rules, does not help to deal with a solution that must take Europe forward rather than take it back. Ladies and gentlemen, our government will show and claim to pay off the German mortgage and make good the damages. I tried to give you a picture of the political difficulties that this issue has. The law has been analysed by the Prime Minister and will be spoken by Mr Paradiselos, the justice officer. I'm going to say two more words and get off the Step. This effort needs to be complex. It is not enough, I say, for this to be the case, for the government to bring this to the highest political level and for it to insist. We need a combined effort, which is why we support the re-establishment of this committee of Parliament. We believe that in this complex collective national effort, the National Reforms Commission and, of course, Manolis Glezos must play a central role. In this effort, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be winning, if we gain ground in both German and European public opinion. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that, when this is the case, when our colleague Manolis Glezos put it in the European Parliament, he did, in many or some respects, relate it to today's reality and said the phrase, which he talked about in a variety of ways - and let me end that. He says: “What are you looking at now? Look at the future.' I say: of course you will look at the future by saying that years have passed and we have forgotten, or by saying that they have been repaid, etc., but once again, that it is our historic obligation, that we owe it to the Greek people and the generation of the National Resistance, that Europe owes it redundantly for its history, to pay off the loan and German compensation. And in this obligation, we will inextricably remain as Greek Government, who has taken such a mandate from the Greek people, among others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister Hood. Allow me, because both Mr Lykoudi and Mr Venizelos and Mr Hood have referred to the doubts raised by some of Germany's actors regarding the existence and legal basis of this claim, to introduce two brief remarks into the debate. Observation one. The fact that, for the first time, following all the actions and the House, those responsible for putting themselves on an issue that has not been placed for decades is the beginning of a concise declaration that there is a claim and claim. Labelling second. There are statements and actions in the opposite direction, that is to say, in the context of the assembly of the obligation and the top of such an event, it is the initiative of the director of the Pfalbauten Museum, Professor Günder Sebel - in the summer that passed us - to return the museum, over ten thousand ancient objects that had been unlawfully transferred to Germany by archaeologists from the SS and his statement that "modern science understands the importance of mutual respect and, therefore, knows how important the findings for a country's identity are. In this sense, the return is a matter of honor’, while the same director of the museum pointed out that the identification of other antiquities found in other museums in Germany could be the subject of Greek-German cooperation. Mr. Nikos Mavraganis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a day of maximum honor and moral debt for the Greek Parliament. The dense of the modern history of the civilized world period of the brutal expansionist, conquering Second World War, carried out by the forces of the so-called Axis, namely Germany, Italy and Japan, against the other major part of the civilized world, directly involved the Hellenic Republic, the Greek and not only the Greek population living in Greece, as well as their properties, most exterminating consequences. Since April 1941, the illegal occupation of the so-called German occupation has been established. The German regime, which numbered at least three hundred thousand men established in Greece at the time, left behind after the release of a skull place, burned earth, with the massacres, executions, displacement, hunger and misery. It is estimated that the number of dead under German occupation has reached at least three hundred thousand Greeks, while many thousands of our state's infrastructures have been violently destroyed, hundreds of thousands of properties have been destroyed, and numerous archaeological treasures have been stolen from the Nazi German regime. The claim of German corrections is a maximum moral, legal and political project and responsibility for all of us, since Greece is the only state - keep this - which has not yet been compensated. This maximum injustice against the Greek people is becoming even more pronounced if we consider that Germany has agreed to pay the debts it has recognised in countries such as Poland and Yugoslavia and to compensate the victims of the Nazi massacres in Israel. But not only did he not pay the corrections to the Hellenic Republic but further, he never returned the archaeological treasures stolen from our country. The human losses in Greece during that black period amounted to about 20% of the population, because they lost their lives or were severely injured and a million trillion Greeks were immovable to eighty nine - recognized by the German side, in fact - Holocausts caused by the German occupation forces and other criminal acts of the occupying forces, which have not been officially recognized. However, in line with and in an approach from the National Board for the Claiming of German debts to Greece, these debts, among other things, include corrections to the public for the destruction of the Greek economy of up to 7.1 billion without interest, which is, of course, a market value of 1938, for which we should, of course, - by the method of reducing it to gold pounds at that time and relocating them to today's euros - find today's valuation. These debts also include catastrophes to the Greek economy resulting from the arbitrary ownership of the shares by public enterprises and organisations of the period, as well as from large private companies of at least 51%. Since Greek primary and secondary production six hundred seventy thousand soldiers of the occupying forces were nourished. In addition, while in 1942 the people were dying of starvation, the Nazis sent Greek land products to feed the Rommel army in North Africa. In addition to human lives, costs amounted to 8 billion drachmas a month. According to data from the National Council, 37,77 tons of large coins of full ore were stolen in tall, ten and twenty, while Germans paid only 104 gold pounds for all of this and 18,5 tons of silver. Of smaller currencies, the nazis collected 64.5 tonnes and made 73 tonnes of copper compared to £5.5. Compensation can and must be claimed even for the snatching of rural land, the requirements of schools, hospitals, hotels, houses and property, the confiscation of means of transport and freight transport - both road and fixed orbit - vessels, ships, cars, bicycles and other animals. An indirect article but a clear confession is the one published on 11-4-2013 in the Berlin TagesSPIEGEL newspaper. The author describes with specific figures, although partly modest, the suffering caused by German occupation forces in Greece. It stands out: 'No other country of occupation, such as Germany, has destroyed as much as Greece'. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we really need to separate German loans from borrowings. And I use the pluralist figure because, in our legal view, it was not a loan, but a lot - because they were being divided - and there was not a contract but a lot of it. Because they clearly have a different legal framework and they need a different legal approach. However, this does not mean that they cannot benefit from the care of a committee, such as that which is now being set up, so that through its conclusions those foundations can arise in order to make the different legal attitudes. The occupation loans were therefore imposed by the occupying forces in a compelling way, so that Greece can continue to finance the much beyond what is necessary and in accordance with the Treaty of Hague's needs in its territory with great surplus amounts, clearly disproportionate to its resources, which after the fiscal conference in Germany and Italy in Rome on 14-3-1942 took flesh and bone. Greece did not, of course, participate in this conference. It was decided that the interest-bearing loans would be charged to it. The Greek Minister of Finance, at his command, also instructed the Bank of Greece to comply with the German Plenipotentiary's private announcement. Since then, the Bank of Greece has operated as an executive body of the Greek State. In summary, this agreement includes an obligation on the Greek side to pay the occupation forces and an equal share for occupation costs of 1.5 billion a month - it is assumed - according to the 1907 Hague Peace Conference. In addition to this amount, withdrawals from the Bank of Greece would be charged to the governments of Germany and Italy at that time in drachmas and would be - illegally, of course - offended. The sum of the final debts incurred by the Bank of Greece to German occupation troops through the respective accounts, in addition to the holding costs, constitutes the capital of the mortgage loans. According to the report by the later Governor of the Bank of Greece for the years 1941-1944, it reached 1 quadrillion million 530 million 33 thousand drachmas. According to the Bank of Greece's Historical Prices Department, the correspondence of the one gold pound to the war drachmas was divided from 1,200 drachmas in 1941 to 34,000,000 drachmas in 1944. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, by converting this then drachma into gold pounds of England and reconversion into euro now, we find that the current amount due is 106,000,000 pounds of gold pounds of England, which corresponds to 25,835,000 euros, without, of course, the calculation of the relevant interest, which has to be calculated over 3%, as this should be the rate, in very moderately calculated ways, which will substantially condensate the loss that the Hellenic Republic has had for the benefit of this chapter all these years, i.e. from how the Hellenic Republic would manage this chapter, since it held it and, of course, according to the average borrowing cost that the Hellenic Republic had over the years. On the other hand, German III Reich took back operations after April 1943, celebrating the debt from this cause. Greece has taken too many steps to ensure that, despite the international customary practice of the inalienable right, the German side is constantly dissatisfied. I will not tire of pointing out more than that. I would just like to refer to the fact that the wrong arguments of the German side, which in no way prevent our fight for justice, should be compared to the fact that, beyond the 1953 London Agreement, which provided for the suspension of claims until the reunification of Germany which took place in August 1990, there has been a Greek - wise - and since 1952 the permanent and permanent expression from the legislative function of the Hellenic Republic with n. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be able to answer this question in writing, but I would like to ask him if he is prepared to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for every Greek patriot to seek and wait. It is time to pay tribute to all these fellow humans who have lost lives of ancestors, relatives, friends and acquaintances, property, but most of all lost fellow humans. It is time to make our sacred debt to those who have taught us what exactly it means to free our country, at all costs. This teaching is more timely today than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor from PASOK. The Minister of Justice will be followed by Mr. Nicos Paradropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the PASOK Parliamentary Group obviously accepts the proposal made by the President of this House for the re-establishment of a committee under the Rules of Procedure of the House, of course, on the German corrections and the mortgage loan. However, ladies and gentlemen, once we have cleared up the first and main concerns of both Greeks and Greek women - we are all in agreement, there is no objection, and so we shall go until the end of the committee's work - as a second, third thought, which has nothing to do with the first and the greatest, from my side, Madam President, I would like to say that it is worthwhile to bring the procedure to the House. According to the text you have distributed to us and to which you have read, please invoke Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. However, in your final proposal you refer to Rule 49a of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the referral back to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u47	By analogy, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u48	Yeah, yeah. I don't remember exactly your phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u49	Analogous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u50	According to the formula of 49a.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u51	Yeah, yeah. By analogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u52	Article 44, which had been chosen as a tool - and rightly so - at its previous meeting has to do with committees recommended by national or more general interest. That is exactly what we are talking about. The House was right to follow this procedure during its previous period. Do you do this to preside over this committee? Try it. I have no objections. None of us will object. However, Madam President, sometimes - and I say it with respect to your office, but also with my sympathy to your face - you are giving us the impression that if you were a speed athlete, you would like to run all eight paths of one stage! These are a number of things that we have to stick to, not because they are the major ones in an issue where we all agree that the major one has been expressed. However, on minor issues which create types of parliamentary behaviour, it would be advisable to take them into account. Only in that sense do I put it. Ladies and gentlemen, secondly, the first and foremost reason has already been mentioned, is unanimity, consensus, common course - I would like to comment a little on the text of the proposal as tabled, but also on reading. We agree with the conclusion. We certainly agree with what we have said, but from the second page to two, then three problems begin to arise which I would like to make clear. I am of the opinion, ladies and gentlemen, that a barbaric attempts are being taken for decades on this issue and appear magically in the way of attempts in 2012. This is not for the sake of a chronological event, but because the President of SYRIZA's major opposition, Mr Tsipras, is present, but also for the party itself as the bodies and the person who took the relevant initiatives. That's not right. That's right. The regression is incomplete. And he's politically incomplete. I do not think there is any evidence that would prove another approach. There are, they are alive and they are recently most. It is proof that everyone in the past, after the Municipalisation, has worked exactly the same logic. As proof that I am saying good things, ladies and gentlemen, and I am not speaking misunderstoodly, I have to dedicate the rest of my speech to certain basic moments in this history. The first station is the Greek Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany - Bonn still the capital - the service of a communication to the German State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, which put the issue of the borrowing and, in general, the international liability of Germany for the events of that period legally established. A second point in 1997. The then President of Parliament, Mr Apostolos Kaklamanis, on his visit to Germany, raised the issue of military compensation and loan at his meetings and there are all the relevant Minutes in this respect. In 1998, ladies and gentlemen, the ambassador and then the Secretary-General of the Presidency on Stephanopoulos Mr Elianos raised the issue of military allowances and the loan to the Director-General for Political Affairs of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In 2000, the then President of the Republic, Mr Stefanopoulou, again raised the question of military compensation and the loan to his German counterpart at the visit of the latter. In 2011 the Government of PASOK exercised the intervention of the Hellenic Republic at the International Court of The Hague, in the trial initiated by Germany's own appeal, which requested - invoking its immunity against the other states - to create a barrier to its international responsibility for what happened in World War II. In 2013, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Venizelos, raised both issues to the German Foreign and Finance Ministers. In 2014 - and here the issues are very serious - once again the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Venizelos, asked the Legal Council of the State for the conclusion of the latter, in terms of German redress and loan, to be converted into an opinion of the Assembly of the Legal Council of State in order to obtain the text necessary for the relevant legal entity. With regard to the content of the findings, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also informed the committee responsible - which we mentioned many colleagues here and which Mr Javarras was President of - on 25 February 2014. In that speech he even referred to the initiative of the Israeli Community of Thessaloniki to bring an action, after having exhausted all the courts within the country, to the European Court of Human Rights, claiming compensation for the ransom paid to the occupation forces at the time when the male population of the community was under forced labour. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and Mr Stournara, asked the General Accounting Office of the State to determine the amount of both claims made by Greece, that is, the loan and the military corrections. The General Accounting Office of the State has submitted its relevant official assessment, I think - for the date I am not sure - on 19 January 2015, however, in the current year, which the Minister for Finance sent to the Legal Affairs Council of the State to formulate, as we said, in plenary session, his relevant opinion, which we expect. In 2014, also, the same person, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Venizelos, raised the issue of war redress and loan to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Gouk, at the visit of the latter to Athens. In 2015 - again by the same political person - the Greek Ambassador in Germany issued a private announcement to the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which raised the issues of military compensation and the loan. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I must - it is my duty - to remind the National Representation of what the whole of the Greek political community obviously remembers, that is, Giannis Stamoulis, in his fight for German compensation for the victims of the martyrdom, who found justice with the decision of the Italian Ice Bay, in which the relevant rulings of the Greek courts were judged to be enforced. That's all for the story. With this, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that those who want to claim that we have all grown here in the last rain have the same opposition. I am tabling this brief history in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore right for the House, and in this period, ladies and gentlemen, to re-establish this committee on military allowances, the mortgage loan and the other issues, so that the previous committee will continue its work, which has been interrupted because of the elections, for the very known reasons. Thus, once this committee has reached the relevant conclusion, which will certainly be based on the work of others and especially the Legal Council of the State, whose official opinion we are awaiting, then the Hellenic Republic will have its competent bodies on a firm basis its firm claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. However, if they have correctly understood, Mr President, the issues you have raised and the facts you have mentioned, the history of the proposal and of the achievements of the Intergroup Committee's recommendation is complete. There is no mention of any other parliamentary event, before March 2012, which should be included. Besides, I hope that you do not whisper the President who thought to add a little more work to her duties, wanting to upgrade the committee not only with my own participation, but also with the participation of all the Vice-Presidents who are from all parties that, under the Rules of Procedure, are entitled Vice-President. If your point were to mean that your party would also like a Vice-President's seat which is no longer entitled to be so, it is something we can discuss in the debates on the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr Nicos Paradropoulos, Minister for Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u54	May I, Madam President, take the floor, to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u55	I'll give you after the speech, because I've already given the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will confine myself to highlighting a number of legal issues which I think will be the basis of the debates that will follow in the committee to be set up. This case, of course, began in 1997 by a judgment of the Court of First Instance in Livadia, validated by a judgment of the Ice Bay in the year 2000. Despite the fact that this decision was irreversible and therefore enforceable, the execution did not proceed, because Greek legislation, the civil procedure provides that the Minister of Justice should be authorized for the execution of decisions against a foreign State, precisely because matters are of importance in view of the country's external relations. This licence was not issued. A series of applications were made on the part of the plaintiffs, families. Twice there has been a negative response with lacquer reasons and really very short, one - two lines. Once the negative answer has emerged silently. Of course, in the Greek country we have had other legal developments since. One was that the Supreme Special Court under Article 100 of the Constitution was seized of another similar case - not that of the Diostomos, but of the Lidoriki Fokidas case - and it was decided that at this stage of the evolution of international law there is a generally acknowledged international rule that the foreign State - the German State in this case - cannot be admitted to the Greek courts for crimes which took place either in war time or in peace, since in any way, armed forces of a foreign state are involved, and in this case, the German, which enjoys the privilege of immunity. That's what the Supreme Special Court accepted. There was also a decision by the Council of State in 2006, which, by a majority, accepted that the granting of or not of the Minister's licence, in particular the positive crisis - an authorisation, that is, the Minister - is a government act which cannot be called into question in law. We have also had international developments. The international development is due to the fact that the Greek plaintiffs, in view of the domestic deadlock, tried to execute the judgment of the Ice Bay, the Greek court, on Italian territory and were justified by the Italian courts in 2011. Germany then appealed to the International Court of The Hague. Our country intervened. The plaintiffs intervened in the case and the Hague Court - by a majority - has again accepted that, in view of the practice of international law which currently exists, the applicant country has the privilege of immunity and immunity. Of course, in the reasoning of the Court of Justice's judgment, it is noted that this immunity relates to judicial redress and, therefore, that the matter may be the subject of a political negotiation between the countries concerned. It is well known, of course - and it has been rightly mentioned earlier - that the judgment of the Court of Justice in The Hague, which has emerged in the Italian courts, has been challenged. In view of these developments, I would like to give you my personal position as Minister of Justice on this matter and forgive me for his first-person speech, which is due to the fact that the Civil Procedure assigns a decision to the Minister of Justice. I am of the opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Special Court, which held that there is a court order and, therefore, immunity of the defendant German State, does not deny the execution of the special court ruling of the year 2000, because it is not in the same case. Ice Arena's decision remains enforceable, and I personally am ready to give the permission for its execution. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The time of this licence and the speeding up of the procedure, of course, will depend on him - in view of the legal complexity of the matter, but also on his national dimensions - and on the political negotiation that the government will have to make, and also on the opinion of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u57	Minister, it is historic that your statement, particularly in view of the fact that there are still living people who have experienced the atrocity, but also in view of the fact that too many have left the waiting process to implement a decision that has become irrevocable to Greek justice since the year 2000, 15 years ago. It is therefore a multiplicity of this statement and of law that you will allow me to say, documented, precisely in the light and of the fact that there is no reciprocity of the Supreme Special Court in this regard, but also of the fact that it is strongly questioned at the level of the Supreme Court of Italy, the Constitutional Court of Italy, the approach adopted by the International Court of The Hague. I have to give the floor to Mr. Loverdos for asking him after I had given the floor to Mr. Paradise. How much time do you need, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u58	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u59	Here, you have the floor for a minute, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u60	Madam President, I raised the question of Parliament's Rules of Procedure not to tell me that the matter of the Vice-President's membership will be studied. That is another matter, if you are going to review the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, whether this House is going to do. We'll see about this. For the time being, it is only a matter of keeping the Rules of Procedure, and in this case the Rules of Procedure have not been complied with. The second thing I have to say to you, we were talking about it while you were talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u61	Would you raise a point of order void, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u62	If I wanted to put it, I'd put it. I said what the big one is. However, you have not complied with the Rules of Procedure. We were also talking here about what you said in reply to Mr Georgiadis, namely that the parliamentary groups were informed that our own was at least informed to appoint a rapporteur and a speaker. It has not been informed of your initiative to raise the matter and of the way you would put it. This is therefore a second issue. The value of the first issue has made us not to put it in the first phase of the debate. However, I am tabling it. The reasons for our reference to the Rules of Procedure are the nature of knowing that, as you read it, we all read it and have an opinion on it. Your discussion is the Conference of Presidents. This is not the plenary session. Only the issues that are not resolved there will come to the plenary. Finally, to conclude, I did not take the opportunity for this reason and I take the opportunity...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u63	You see, I haven't given you any time, because if I'd put you in one minute, we'd already have sound caves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u64	It wouldn't hurt. You should do what you think is best. I'll tell you what I have to say with your permission. The Justice Minister said what he said and we heard them. In fact, he said at the end - and I would like to say that he was heard in the Chamber - that he would make his final act conditional on the exhaustion of the very serious problems, both legal and other, which exist and linked his choice, his final attitude and decision to the course of the political negotiation. That's what he said. That was heard in the Chamber, Minister. If you miss the phrase, you have room for correcting it. If you didn't miss it, it's a revelation of what you did tonight. I hope you're conscious of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u65	Mr Loverdo, I would like to inform you, because you are obviously not aware, because otherwise you would not have made this intervention. The proposal that I tabled on 8 March 2015 was sent in writing to all Members of Parliament and to the President of your parliamentary group. Therefore, the parliamentary groups were not informed only to appoint speakers. Then there was contact with all the parliamentary groups, which were appointed as a priority, so that you - and Parliamentary representatives - were appointed by your party, Mr Koutsoukos - were appointed by your party as well as by speakers on the list. This is how your party recommended Mr Gregorakos and Mr Konstantopoulos. Therefore, I do not accept in any way the plea of lack of information. I will tell you that the Conference of Presidents - which will now meet, after the last committee required, the Committee on Institutional Affairs and the Transparency - is, however, less than the plenary and you know that. The House is in plenary. You also know that the Conference of Presidents is a conference in which there is no public access to it, and here we have a public debate, in order for you to develop your objections, of course, but also a free parliamentary democratic process to take place. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I will tell you that the only thing that is not actually included in the Rule 44 provision is that the House should be able to discuss when the parliamentary groups agree. If, therefore, I accept one reproach, I have planned to have a debate even with the fact that we agree. I did just this by acknowledging that there is a huge symbolic and historical value and that it is important for the House to discuss and for all the groups to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u66	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u67	Before giving the floor to Mr Georgiadis, who has been asked for him as a parliamentary representative, I shall give the floor to the Minister. Minister, do you want the floor to answer Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u68	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u69	Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. I would just like to make it clear that the negotiation that has been mentioned is not the general negotiation on the progress of the country's finances, but only about discussing the specific issue of German compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u71	Madam President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u72	Let's not expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u73	Please, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u74	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u75	I want the same time before, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u76	Okay, I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u77	So on the 8th of the month, you sent the letter to the President of PASOK and I imagine the other parties too. Eight of the month is the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u78	Yeah, all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u79	In everything, obviously! Eight of the month is the day before yesterday. I'm not saying it because he's just the other day. That's not what I'm saying. You sent your choice. You sent your final choice to follow this process, that is, you informed. I didn't tell you that. I didn't tell you you didn't inform. You have informed the Parliamentary Groups to appoint rapporteurs and others, Parliamentary Representative and speaker. I told you another thing, that for the procedure and application of the Rules of Procedure the House has been using its relevant bodies for decades. A responsible institution, crucial to the situation, is the Conference of Presidents. Wasn't this House completed? You could have informed Parliamentary Representatives and Secretaries, you could have informed them, to have the consent...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u80	It's done, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u81	Our Parliamentary spokesman and the Secretary of Parliament and the New Democracy also did not do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u82	Good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u83	Don't say things that didn't happen. That doesn't help you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u84	You also say that on behalf of the New Democracy. All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u85	I say this on behalf of our party. It doesn't help you say things that didn't happen. What's he offering? What does that offer you? Nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u86	They're done unless you question the services that tell me they've done. I did not personally get the parliamentary groups. The responsible officials made this communication and forwarded my letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u87	Only the documents, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u88	Please do not continue, since we all agree that this should be discussed and that is what the President of your parliamentary group has said. I think that this question of whether there should be a debate, it is no use and it certainly does not add.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u89	I said that, Madam President. One more, the other one!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u90	There's no monopolies! We're not seagulls here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u91	Allow me now, given that... [[Protests - Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. We have seen each other's position and each one is judged on his responsibility. As President, I assume that I have taken the initiative to add a debate, a debate time and not to remove. I take this responsibility, and I think it is relevant in this process and in this case. Now, because, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, a number of announcements must be made in this House, and on the occasion that the Minister for Justice has just spoken, let me tell you what is going on in this House on the basis of Article 86 of the Constitution of Criminal Procedures. In particular, these are specific procedures provided by the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the following dates and items: On 25 February 2015, pursuant to Articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1 and 4 of the Act. 3126/2003 on the "Prime Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, forwarded a criminal case law created following the 12-1-2015 denial of the Federation of Middle Education Officers, concerning former Ministers for Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance, and Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Andreas Loverdos, for the offences allegedly committed in the violation of duty and misappropriation. On 25 February 2015, in accordance with the same procedure for the criminal liability of the ministers, it forwarded a criminal case-law set up following the November 17, 2014, reference documents of Mr Alexis Koulia, the lawyer and president and owner of the PANACHAIKI, concerning the former Deputy Minister of Sport and Culture, Mr. Ioannis Andrianos, for the alleged offence of the duty infringement relating to the posting of a football match. On 25 February 2015, according to the above articles, 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure and 1 and 4 of the Law. 3126/2003 on the criminal liability of the ministers, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tasou for the allegedly committed offence of the breach of duty, on the omission of the appointment of the former prime minister as Director General of the Hellenic Cinema Centre. On 25 February 2015, in accordance with the same procedure on ‘Prime Responsibility for Ministers of Ministers’, it forwarded a criminal case-law formed following the 14-1-2015 report of the non-profit-making company to the name ‘Minister of Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Minister and Civilian Protection in 2009-2015 for the crime allegedly committed in violation of the Constitution and insulting the civil society – Article 134 of the Criminal Code – on how to impose and collect traffic charges and collect charges. On 2 March 2015, pursuant to Articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and 1, 2 and 4 of the Act. 3126/2003 on the criminal liability of Ministers, as was the case, it forwarded a criminal case law created following the 14-1-2015 report of the Association of Parents and Gardens "Nine Muses" of the Art School of Heraklion, Crete concerning the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos, on the non-timely recruitment of teachers to the above school in 2013-2014. On 9 March 2015, in accordance with the same procedure as ‘Criminal Responsibility of Ministers’, the Prosecutor of Finance and Religious Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Arvanitopoulos, forwarded a criminal case-law which was formed following an anonymous reference to the Prosecutor of Economic Crimes concerning the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Constantinos Arvanitopoulos, concerning the alleged misconduct of the breach of duty in the performance of his duties and, in particular, the adoption of a Ministerial Decision authorising the allocation of registered hours to his teachers abroad. On 9 March 2015, according to the same procedure, it forwarded a criminal case-file which was formed on the occasion of the appeal by Mr Emmanuel and Mr Themistoclis Kotedakis concerning the former Minister of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change, George Papaconstantinou, concerning the allegedly committed offence of active corruption, allegedly committed in the performance of the duties relating to the non-transmission of the case-file by the Prosecutor of the Prosecutors of the Ivory Coast.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u92	For the procedure to be followed in relation to these pleadings and in the absence of a special procedure for Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the committee responsible will be consulted. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that under the decision of the President of Parliament under Rule 43 A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament for the First Session of the Parliamentary Ethics Committee, Mrs Despina Charalapidou III Vice-President of Parliament was appointed as President of Parliament. In its resolution No 2913/1797/3-2015 of the President of Parliament, the parliamentary term provided for in Rule 46 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure was established. Under the decision of the President of the Parliament under Rule 46 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the First Session of Parliament's Committees on Finance and Library of the House, 2914/1798/3-2015 was formed under Rule 46 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Under No 3095/1928/3-2015, the decision of the President of the Parliament was formed under Rule 49A of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the PF Parliamentary Period Committee on Public Enterprises, Banking, Public Prosecutors and Social Security Institutions. The relevant decisions have already been posted in Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u93	I would also ask the competent services to bear the decision on the appointment of the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Alexis Metropoulou as President of the Committee on European Affairs, so that we can also announce this decision, as required by the Rules of Procedure. Also, as required by the Regulation, I am announcing that “the Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, the Vice-President of the Government, the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Culture, Education and Religion, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Economic, Health and Social Security, State, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and the Deputy Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, Economic, Labour and Social Solidarity and Social Security, have submitted to Parliament on 3-3-2015: Draft Law entitled: “Agreements to take immediate steps to deal with the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the government bodies and other provisions”. This bill has already been referred to the co-legislative three committees, namely the Committee on Civil Liberties, Civil Liberties and Justice, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs. I also announce that the President of the KKE Parliamentary Group, Dimitrios Koutsoubas and his party MPs tabled a proposal for a law on 25-2-2015 on the subject: "The abolition of the Memorandums, the Medium-term Financial Strategy and their implementing laws - Complaints of loan contracts which prerequisite the implementation of the Memorandums", which will also follow the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently and given that the list of priority speakers, one of each party, has been completed, I give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy Mr Adonni Georgiadis. Mr Georgiadis, for your prototype, I will not count your first speech at all, but you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Moving on to the procedural issue that we have opened and to supplement what Mr Andreas Loverdos said very well, Madam President, we are telling you that it is another thing to call the President of Parliament and to say "Give me some words about a debate that I have already decided to hold" and another thing to co-decide, as is the case in Parliament, how a debate will take place. In the House we have learned to work collectively. The saying I heard that 'The Conference of Presidents is a committee, a process which is closed and therefore not transparent', I imagine you have missed. That is where all the decisions and collective decisions of the House are made on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. And what Mr Loverd said at the outset is what Mr Loverdos said before, that, in a debate that everyone's common goal must be national unity and unity, there must be no one to act unilaterally, even if they have the institutional position. That's our objection. And we insist on it. There was no proper procedure. In any case, we're going down and down so we don't lose the big one. I am very pleased with the clarification you have made, Mr Minister of Justice, because I too, as you said at the outset, feared that you would go along with the two. So it's major, and that's clear. And why is it major? And I shall start by saying: our first speaker, Mr Javaras, who was the President of the previous committee, before his speech, said something, which needs to be approached, ladies and gentlemen, 'If we really are interested in achieving this'. And he said that "The only way, as international practice has shown, to achieve such a demand in the end, is to win international public opinion." Because these matters are complex and because it is questionable whether there are international courts capable of clearing them, the real way to achieve this is after you have perfectly established your claim, to convince international public opinion about the law of the claim, and in this way to exert the proper political pressure to come to an end. We all realise that if it were to be linked to the current economic difficulties in the country with stable claims, for which of course there has never been a resignation of its claims from any political area, it would mean that we would put international public opinion to our attention in this regard and therefore, in the end, would not reach the intended goal. I'm glad that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u96	Be careful, however, Mr Colleague, to see that we have unfortunately succeeded, because we are a people who like division, even an issue that actually unites us, and we all agree that we need to find the way to achieve it, to make it another issue that can divide us. And I bring as an example what happened to the European Parliament when, without consulting any other colleague, he went to the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, he raised the matter himself and then accused all his other colleagues of not helping him with his request. He went to an unauthorized committee. This irresponsible committee rejected its request. And from that day on the Internet has been overwhelmed by our fellow citizens' articles and opinions that have been left with the impression that there is a patriot in the European Parliament and all others are some traitors who have not gone to help him with this action. Not only do these actions actually have the aim of achieving what we are discussing, but precisely the backwards. Do what? To use for personal political benefit an issue that, if it enters our political conflict, will never work and the only winners will be the other side. He didn't mention it until now, as far as I've been following the speeches, which I think is very important and we have to say: In the first loan contract, as we have become accustomed to saying - although there is a division here there are two different issues, but they are not - in Article 7(1), the following sentence has been inserted: "All payments made by the borrower shall be paid in full, without any reduction due to netting or the existence of a claim, free of reductions or retentions of taxes, commissions and other charges for the entire duration of this contract". This is very important that it has gone backwards from what many of our fellow citizens think. Because that is the real indirect assumption today of the Federal Republic of Germany that he fears that there may be netting and recompense in the future. And that is very important that it has entered there, because it means that we can really haunt the fact that the other side, even indirectly, understands our basic argument. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that it might be important in our tactics for the success of this common objective to make a distinction between the borrowing and German allowances. Why would this separation take place? Because our legal basis for the issue of borrowing is really unshakable. It's a unique phenomenon in the history of World War II. It is absolutely established through the relevant records that have been saved, but also the relevant communications from the Federal Republic of Germany itself, and so it is absolutely essential, with very little capacity for Germany to avoid it. The issue of German allowances, on the contrary, is an extremely complex legal issue, on which the other side could raise much more legal obstacles. Perhaps it would be useful, therefore, to separate these two issues regularly. I must also say - as many have heard of what everyone has done in this Chamber - and since I agree with Mr Loverdos on his reference to the name of Stumoulis - because we mentioned the judgment of the Court of Livade on the Dispute, but I always like to live to recognize those who have done so - that the story of the case, if I recall, Yiannis Stumoulis, is now incomprehensible. He started a story that ended somewhere, had a major effect. I must therefore say that it is completely distorting that public opinion is now only, for the first time, dealing with this whole matter. It's not true at all. You, Madam President, certainly, in your proposal you mention a large part - not all, but a large part - of the historical. But it is important that public opinion, our home country, should know that all parties, unanimously, have actually made a very great effort at this time. In the last two years, I can say that a very long distance has been covered, because things have not been done for seventy years. More important than anything we believe is the work done by the General Accounting Office of the State with the then Deputy Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura. At that time, for the first time, all the information on the Land loan records were collected. For the first time, all the elements and arguments which are absolutely necessary to establish the legal basis for this claim have been collected and formulated by the referral to the Plenary Assembly at the end of the State Law Council. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because all of us who have supported the country's budgetary adjustment effort - at the time when we heard about a number of people and accused ourselves of being 'German germans' or similar designations - were this parliamentary group and this government - which, after seventy years, made these specific acts to give the Greek people the opportunity to claim German allowances from the mortgage loan. Unfortunately, too many of our fellow citizens ignore that during the period of previous governance this whole organised effort has been made which, for the first time, gives the Greek people the opportunity to hope that it will work. And because this is where we have to have a spirit of unity, it is important that this should be recognised. It is important, in other words, to say out to the people who are watching us, that there are no more patriots and less patriots here in the Chamber. We're all patriots, we love him, and we want him to go forward. We may disagree on the way we have to go, but we do not disagree on the motives. Madam President, I would like to say at the end of my speech - since there is a spirit of unanimity in the Chamber in all the other respects - that, although you are a popular person - and I acknowledge this - you have not made any comment on the Prime Minister's refusal to comment on the major issue raised by Mr Venizelos. Because the major issue, ladies and gentlemen, is that if there is to be this procedure to discuss the issue of military compensation and the loan - no objection and no objection - should this House discuss the major issue that we are discussing today, namely what exactly you have agreed with our partners in Eurogroup and what agreements Mr Varoufakis brings, whether or not the technical scales will come and not all the others? It made me an alpine impression that the Prime Minister, although he came here to talk about the major issue of war compensation, although he attended Mr Venizelos' speech, not only did not make any comment, but you, too, who do not let anything fall down, have rather dispersed your attention. And I am sure that as President of this House who has declared that it will not allow this House to be demolished by bills that come under the urgency procedure, for example, or by amendments from the last minute to the House - because your incentive to apply the Rules of Procedure in all these matters is your concern to keep Parliament's authority high - you first have to provoke the debate on the major issue. Because we have arrived, ladies and gentlemen, in the following oxymomile form: To speak of the issues of Eurogroup and any agreements that Mr Varoufakis makes; to speak all of Greece, all radio stations, all television stations, parties in their internal functions, but the only place in which this debate cannot be held is the most dominant area in which popular sovereignty is expressed, namely the Greek Parliament. I am absolutely certain, Madam President, that you have drawn your attention to this particular issue and you will take it personally. In any case, the programme with our parliamentary procedures is not particularly burdened by - your Government has not yet managed to fill us with bills - the MPs are about sitting. So, we sit where we sit, don't gather to discuss these things that you're doing? And if you are afraid of the vote so that you do not have any leaks - I have read in the press that you too do not want to vote and that is your right - do not fear the leaks. Come here to discuss exactly what agreements you are concluding, on what terms and on what basis, because no one has authorized you to decide everything in secret and unsubstantiatedly, Madam President. In conclusion, since I heard the initiative of the Communist Party of Greece to abolish all the Memorandum Laws, I would like to say that it is very interesting, once again...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u97	You'll vote for it, and I imagine she will.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u98	I'll tell you right away, Madam President. Thank you very much for making an observation. The programme of the House is not loaded, as we all know. In the past, when we tabled proposals for laws for opposition parties - I say that for new colleagues - a gap had to be found in the current legislative procedure, so that there would be a debate on this subject. Here we are an endless void. We don't talk almost a day, we don't have any bills. Here, then, is a glorious field for many of the SYRIZA colleagues who welcomed the view "negation with a law and an article" and since the Communist Party of Greece has made this kindly proposal to table this proposal for a law and an article, to discuss it next week quickly, without losing time. And those of you, Professor, who want to help abolish the Memorandum Laws, have the opportunity, free of charge, in the field of the exercise of popular sovereignty, to express their will and not, of course, to express it on television papers and on the windows of the various stations. I am sure that these important initiatives that will upgrade our parliamentary work to a worthy President like you, who are trying to increase Parliament's authority, will receive attention and immediate priority, so that - I repeat - Parliament, which is the most important area of expression of popular sovereignty, is not excluded from the debate on all these major issues. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u99	Mr Georgiadis, first of all thank you for making us feel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u101	Secondly, I should like to say to you, because it must be full of information for the citizens, that under number 699, on 8 March 2015, it is my proposal that we are discussing today. It was really Sunday day and I was in the House. We had a conversation about the woman's day. By number 700, 701, 702, 703, 704, 705 and 706, the same date has been sent to the Presidents of all the groups and to the President of your parliamentary group. In relation to the bills and because it is not right for the citizen to be misinformed, Parliament has legislative work since last Tuesday when the first bill was filed. The procedure has been well defined within three days, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. It was identified in the three co-legislative committees, rather than one option, as was done in too many cases where bills were introduced into an unrelated committee. I would remind you that as Minister of Health you had this bad habit. I remember a lot of bills, exactly about the media, which were in the Ministry of Health bills. I remember that article 18 on media and licences. I will also tell you that the co-legislative committees, which are three out of six, and which include half of Parliament's Members, have been meeting since last Friday. They held a joint meeting on Friday in this Chamber from morning until almost tonight. Today they met again listening to institutions. They're meeting tomorrow and tomorrow. So this bill will be introduced in plenary next week after a thorough process and not by procedures that allow some to say that they have passed bills and memorandums inconsistently. I will, however, agree with you in an observation. This observation is that the inclusion in the memos of this reservation, i.e. that it is not recognised as offsetting, does indeed include a confession of Greece's claim against counterparties. With regard to Parliament's information on matters of negotiation, I think it is well known that the government has indicated the intention of informing the House and it is understood that the House is open to this information. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Athanasios Petrakos, has spoken. Mr. Petrakos, you are entitled to half the time of your speech, unless you want to clear him up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u102	I'll take it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u103	Although this is normally not the case, I call for the consent of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u104	Madam President, thank you very much. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Justice, this historic meeting can indeed be said to have a much greater dimension. It is historical, capitalized and underlined after your statement. It is a statement that proves that this government does not say words, but does act. And he's doing acts that others didn't dare before they did. This historic session of the House today is of enormous importance, not only for the Greek people, but for the whole of mankind. It shows the difference between the current government and the governments. The entire House and the entire Greek people would therefore expect that this statement by the Minister of Justice should also be welcomed by Mr Loverdos and Mr Georgiadis, instead of being involved in structuring and showing pettyness. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic meeting because we have a re-establishment and upgrading of the House through plenary. For Parliament, as an expression of popular sovereignty and of the entire Greek people, thirty days after the start of its work, raises this great issue, which is a debt to the dead and victims of the fight against fascism and Nazism, to all the survivors, to the martyr villages that were burnt. There are thousands of houses burned all over Greece. I shall refer to something that has not been heard. Only in Epirus are two thousand houses and thousands slaughtered, together with Distomo, Kalavrita and all the martyr villages. It is a debt to all the peoples who fought against Nazism and fascism at all the lengths and backs of Europe, but also throughout the world, and to the new generation, so as not to forget the nature of Nazism and fascism. So this debate is very important, because the government itself has been present at the highest level. There were three ministers who raised all the issues. And the Minister for Justice made this historic statement and a decision which, I repeat, others before they dared to do so. All this shows that the government, in the most unequivocal way, is determined to claim to the end what belongs to the Greek people, so that there will finally be justice in Greece. This upgraded committee, with the chairmanship of the President of the Parliament itself in committee, shows that the issue will be very high every day. It is important, of course, despite the micropsies I have mentioned, that all parties, other than Golden Dawn, were placed positive on this issue, as they had put forward positively. I cannot, however, comment on the fact that it is a micropsy and an insult to the world of national resistance, which has been associated with the post-Macedonia of PASOK, that Mr Venizelos on the right and left nationalism. Mr. Venizelos, the left showed her patriotism at all the difficult times of the Greek people. Do not insult the people who once voted for your party, which, of course, became where you came from. It is also a succinct attack by both Mr Venizelos and the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to try to link this great historic debt that the Greek Parliament has to carry out, namely, the return of Germany's debts to Greece, by discussing the results of the Eurogroup of 20 February and by comparing the issues that concern the Greek people. Yes, Mr Venizelos, the issues that concern the Greek people have begun and are being discussed. The first is the bill on the humanitarian crisis. The next draft law on settlement of outstanding debts is coming. The red loan bill is coming. The bill to reconstitute ERT is coming. All this comes, Mr. Venizelo. The government will take all these bills along the way to minimize, soften the wounds that have been opened to the body of Greek society by the Memorandum policies it has voted on. Mr. Venizelos has voted for all of them. I repeat, however, that it is not possible to relate the issues that have to do with this great historic debt, which must finally find its fairness, because today there is the necessary cross-party will. So let no such problems arise, because seventy-four years after Germany's invasion of Greece in April 1941 and the fascist and nazi occupation in Greece, this great issue must finally be resolved. We owe it, as I said before, to all those who struggled. This government, as the mandate of the Greek people, will bring it to fruition. Because Germany owes, as the National Council for struggling for all these years - and we must pay tribute and it is the duty of this House to mention the efforts of the National Council and Manolis Glezou - EUR 108 billion without interest. He owes for the disasters he caused. This height has been valued. It also owes 54 billion, without interest, of the forced mortgage, the money that the Bank of Greece was obliged to lend to Germany monthly in order to maintain the occupation army. Once the war ended, Germany itself recognised the loan and that amount. Germany must return the stolen archaeological treasures belonging to the Greek people and form part of the Greek cultural heritage and of the heritage of all mankind. And, of course, no one legalizes their peculiarity. Despite the occasional German objections that there is no question of payment of the military compensation or of reimbursement of the interest-rate loan on the grounds of limitation, Germany appears to be forgetting the provisions of Articles 17, 5 and 2 of the London Agreement of '53 on external German debts' which stipulates that Germany undertakes, after its reunification, not only to regulate its non-contractual compensation obligations but also to adopt those legislative provisions and to take all the administrative measures necessary to implement this agreement. For Germany's debt, the basic principle was that Germany was obliged to repay the remaining debt, even maintaining a level of development, because humanity after World War II did it a favor to delete a large part of the debt. So, at the moment, moving Mr. Shoeble's hand is at least an insult to what Germany has to bear on humanity. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to eat any more time and to respect the fellow Members who must speak, the issue today of the re-establishment and upgrading of the Intergroup of Parliament's Committee is particularly important, because through the committee and through the determination of the government all Greek people and all of Parliament must be involved, while neglecting any party disputes to defend the law, history and the future of humanity, the future that we must give to the young people of our country, because our memory and reminder is a historic obligation that Greece does not give up on what it owns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u105	The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Michael Arvanitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Madam President. I take this opportunity to refer to an event which was unpleasant, which took place on 26 February, day Thursday, an extremely unpleasant event for parliamentary institutions. In particular, I did not have the time to talk about the fact that, due to the time elapsed, I was unable to speak, although my speech was scheduled. You, Madam President, have made a proposal to this House, by unanimous decision of the Bureau, to postpone the debate on the waiver of Mr Georgiadis' immunity, so that this postponement will, of course, lead to the coming here, in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure, of the relevant provisions and the relevant provisions of the Constitution in order to vote on the provisional Members of the Golden Dawn Parliament. So, as a result of this proposal, of the absolutely legitimate proposal, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I repeat, have you received a very strong attack with an immoral style - the chief of PASOK - from whom? One of those who have spent years pretending to be respectful of the institutions, you at least with an excitement that you have expressed the institution of the President of the Parliament have not respected you. They are the ones who, in particular, the Chief of PASOK, literally swept through the constitutional provisions, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House. They trampled upon judicial authority, where they found ground suitable, appropriate, judges jurors, unconscious and corrupt. They dared to speak of discreet powers. What distinction of powers? How dare they speak of discriminating powers by those who trampled the powers and especially by judicial authority? Indeed, we were analysed by Mr Venizelos, who is supposed to be a legal person, and he told us that he could not intervene specifically in the judiciary. He did not, however, tell us whether he had the right to intervene in the functioning and composition of legislative power, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House and the Constitution. That's what he avoided telling us. I would also like to say that I was pressurised by the speech you have made on taking up your duties that you will do everything in order for Parliament to function widely and smoothly and to comply with parliamentary procedures, as required by the law. I have a personal experience for you, because for two and a half years we have been conspiring in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, and I am sure you will. At the same time, however, you will now allow me to protest, because while the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group was attacked by an unacceptable, slandering attack, by the SYRIZA rapporteur and despite my protests, you did not have to withdraw it. Is this, in the capacity of a judge, a legitimate party, and this half a million Greek patriots who supported it and still support it? That is why I protest, Madam President. On this point, I would like to say that the continuation of the state is an injunction, in accordance with international law and under the laws of individual states, and it is in the sense that any system of government operates, acts over a period of time vis-à-vis the other States, by acts or omissions resulting in the damage of the third State, then the State is liable over a period of time, even if it is over a hundred or fifty or seventy years, as is the case here. There is no point in that. The respective systems of government with which the German state was operating have always succeeded and sought to impose the Germans on the other nations either by means of arms or by means of the economy. I would remind the House that since Kaiser’s time, hostile feelings against the Greeks have been expressed, not only by words, but by actions from the German state - I stress this - and not by German philhellions, such as Gaete, Sopenhower, Siller and other prominent Germans, who have admired Greek culture. I always speak over time about the German state, with any governance. Since then, in order to show their feelings toward us, Von De Golts sent to Sarentaporos, who said that "here will be the grave of Greece". Except he became his own grave. Then they caused World War I, with the known catastrophes, and due to pro-Turkish time and eternal emotions they always rented generals and officials to the Turks - as the football teams who rent a football player to another team - in order to train their army. They sent Liman von Sanders after, who is the well-known designer of the Armenian massacre, the Pontius, and then, after having received the lesson well, Mustafa Kemal slayed the Greeks of Smyrna. No one can doubt the hostile feelings of the German state, I stress. Because the previous ones have identified the full responsibility for a particular system of government. What do I care if it was democratic? It could have been democratic too. It could have been any other system of government. What I care about like a Greek patriot is that they slayed their legs here, slaughtered, plundered our treasures, imposed us a humiliating loan, burned our villages, executed so many. And by the way, since you did not say so, and you said so when you made the name of Mrs Kanellopoulou, Madam President, I would like to tell you about me - if you wish - that I come from Kalavrita, from my great-great-grandfather, and we also had victims. However, I do not want to extend to the activities of some relatives of this woman's most dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u107	Do you have any files?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u108	I would ask you not to repeat this, Madam President, and to take the floor. You must withdraw the insults against a legitimate party before the court decides irrevocably.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u109	Proceed to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u110	And he spoke to us about the Bridge, too. Who does he think he's speaking to? Who? What was the Bridge for us? What was it? It was a great occasion, so that Samaras and the rest of the conspiracy would shut us down in prison, squeeze us, as he speaks, to restrain us at home. This is the misery, immoral, illegal, unfair action of the former Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u111	What about the murder?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u112	On this occasion, since the Minister for Justice is here, I shall refer to his speech in the programming statements - the speech was indeed thorough - which said, among other things, that we would also respect international agreements on law. And I believe that, Mr President-in-Office, it will be done in particular with regard to the Palermo Convention, where we have signed it and have ratified it by law. But we have a lame criminal provision, number one. 187, just to harm the legitimate party of the Golden Dawn People's League. I hope the judges who will be appointed and who will be closed tomorrow will observe this. I shall also refer to the first memorandum, which was signed at the initiative of the US agent and matches with the Greek name. We have been in English law, we have resigned the immunity, and we have been banned from any netting with debts from other states to our country, all of this for Germany's sake. What about the first memorandum? That's the question. Split the memorials, as promised by your Chief. Dig it! We need more men than politicians. Dig the pride, like Greeks and tell this half-Greek Symble and Merkel that we are Greeks, from us you got the light, you have no right to enslave us, and when the time comes, to come back to our national currency. We'll do our best. And already as Golden Dawn, before the elections we gathered outside the German Embassy to protest and also claim the restoration of the damage, in general Germany's debt to us. And not only that, but also the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn in an interview here in this House - only two phrases will I read with your permission, Madam President - Madam President - say attributes: 'We are asking for the first time to establish a national committee of valid economists, legal and historical people of common acceptance, which will clearly and undeniably define the exact amount of this debt, which Mr Koukouns - has documented, I have read the book - and the French economist Deplast has read in 510 billion euros. And secondly, with urgent legal proceedings to force the current German state to pay us immediately and fully." We, as Golden Dawn, will contribute our masses, the maximum, I'd say. Be sure of that, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitis. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. I am not going to place myself on the issues of procedure and the way in which the agendas are to be fixed or whether the Conference of Presidents meets. I'm going straight to the point of the matter. Of course, the committees set up in this House are good, as are today's debate on the re-establishment of the Committee on the Claims for Debt and Compensation. But that is not the essence of the matter, in our view. Of course, we will participate as a JRC in the committee to be set up, as we did in the previous one. In fact, all these years the Communist Party of Greece has been the party that organisedly kept this issue alive, with interventions both within Parliament and in the European Parliament. In other words, we did not remember it either in 2010 or in 2012. But what is the substance of the matter? The essence is the claim of the Greek compensation, namely the claim of the forced mortgage, compensation for the disasters, compensation for the human victims and the repatriation of the archaeological treasures stolen from the occupation forces. That's the point. And the committee has no such role to claim. We in the government demand that these requirements be met, as we have called for in previous governments. The previous governments, however, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, either self-powered or in cooperation, all they did - if they did - were to limit the whole issue to the discussions and the meetings which put it in fragmentary terms, namely words and nothing. But what does the current government intend to do? Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister, spoke. It has not been mentioned in anything specific, tangible, that we will take these measures, that we have this plan, that timetable, and that is how we prioritise matters. It was simply pointed out that we would approach the issue sensitively through negotiations and dialogue and that the Government would support the committee. So the government is hiding behind the committee of Parliament? Is he practically going to do something? The Minister of Justice who succeeded him in the debate referred to the decision of the court in Leivadia. But you also put an asterisk on this, Mr Minister - we hope it is not - because you have not mentioned the time, but you have linked the time for this court's decision, that is to say, the resignation of immunity, as well as in the light of the development of the negotiations. You have also linked it directly to the negotiation. In fact, the Prime Minister came to the point of opening, with a phrase, the clearing door, saying that "as Greek Government we will fulfil our obligations, but we also ask others to fulfil our demands". We, as a JRC, do not agree with the settling. It is also a question of civil debt and other issues of the occupation loan, compensation for disasters and human victims and the repatriation of archaeological treasures. It cannot and must not be offset. That is why we call on the Greek people not to recognise the state debt. Because it is not a debt that was done to satisfy the people's needs, but it was a result of capitalist development and support for business groups, and therefore also of the involvement of urban governments with business interests. But SYRIZA - ANEL co-government is moving on the opposite path. With great reverence and consistency it serves this urban, anti-popular state debt, even reaching the point of mocking the satisfaction of the people's needs, attempting an internal lending. That is what the current government is doing today. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the memories may be fresh, but they should not be selective. Because they all didn't resist the conqueror. The bourgeoisie class and its political representatives were either openly co-operated with the conqueror or bluffed and others were absent in Egypt, others in London. Indeed, it is also a challenge for the political descendants of those who worked with the conquerors, namely the golden ones, to have the courage to invoke EAM resistance and the ELAS for the struggles that he gave against the pro-Russian organizations of the Hippies and Tatars. On the substance of the Greek people's honour and dignity saved the JRC. Because the Communist Party of Greece took the lead and organized the EAM resistance, it contributed to the collapse of Nazism with the dominant role in this crash played by the Soviet Union and the Red Army. Because Nazism did not come from reasons of psychology, because the German people felt humiliated, as some claim, but it was a choice of Germany's bourgeois order. Because Nazism and fascism are a child of the capitalist system. The Nazi party and Hitler came to power with the blessings of the German bourgeoisie, namely industrialists, bankers, German capitalists. That is why it is the nazi form of urban governance. After all, the Second World War began as an imperialist war between two coalitions of states, on the one hand England, France and the United States, and on the other hand Germany, Italy and Japan, on the redistribution of markets, on the redistribution of the spheres of influence. But they also had a common objective, the two supposedly opposing parties, how they would crush the Soviet Union and the then new socialist state, the socialism built by the working class and the people in the Soviet Union. Because he was their common enemy and their common opponent. And today people live under conditions of imperialist war or with a gun on the front under conditions of imperialist peace. So the honor and historical justice of all those who fought is not just a wish, but is directly linked to the anti-capitalist struggle. So respect for the historical memory, the struggles and sacrifices of our people run counter to the tie and integration of our country into the imperialist barbarism of NATO and the European Union, of this wolf alliance. It runs counter to the rotten system of capitalist exploitation, which brings poverty, impoverishment and wars. These political choices of the local bourgeoisie are those which have been paid very dearly by our people in the past and which the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL continues to walk today, but also to implement. In this respect, therefore, the price to all of this lies in the struggle against the interests of our people against capital, business groups, against the bourgeoisie and the choices it has made to involve Greece in the European Union and NATO, is at the struggle to overthrow power, to overthrow the rotten capitalist system and build socialism - communism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u116	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal or quasi-personal matters - as you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u117	Please, Mr Arvanitis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. We cannot call ourselves the Hitler descendants or the Nazism descendants. It's an awkward, too. I think it should be revoked in class. But I am forced by the previous speaker, a descendant of Stalin, to say and recall the following, that during the first session of the Region of Western Greece, after a debate on Melilla, Mr. Karathanasopoulos said insurrection: “And we have slaughtered a few there! And next round we'll take care of you!" Let's go! Here he is, let him deny me! Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u119	My silence in answer to him. I don't even bother to answer that question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u120	I will bring this House back to the spirit of the meeting, which must be a spirit of unanimity and national consensus for a plea of commemoration and not a spirit of petitions, which will trigger rather divisive debates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u121	Now, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u122	You're welcome, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u123	Look, we do not want to follow up on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u124	I really appreciate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u125	Our silence in response, because we do not want to talk to partners - and there is no national consensus here - with the Nazis' political offspring, with the conquesters' associates, with this Nazi structure of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u126	'And we have slaughtered a few!' "Other's gonna get big?" Velouchiotus said riding the horse!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u127	I think the historical memory and recording of history are recorded and undeniable to everyone. Let us not turn this debate into a field of controversy, which has a substance, it has a historical reference clearly, but it does not belong to this evening's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u128	It is not your role to comment on every speaker, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u129	It is my role to interpret the feelings of this House and I interpret that the desire of this House is to move forward in the substance of the debate and to place the speakers on the table. That is what the Rules of Procedure stipulate and you will allow me to do. If I wanted to comment, I had a lot to say. Now, there's no other parliamentary representative and we're coming in...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u130	I, Madam President, would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u131	You hadn't asked for the floor, I didn't see you. Mr. Theocharis, whom I asked, told me he didn't want to see it yet. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos from the ANELs has just asked for the floor. Please, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. Do you want six minutes and in the same way to clear the dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u132	The same way Mr. Petrakos spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u133	So, with nine minutes, and with the tolerance of the Bureau, as for the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with the President's last word. After all, this was the spirit of the speech by our President, Mr Venizelos, that today's debate is an act of national unity and consensus. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean that the ideological lines and controversies have been abolished, nor much more so that we all have the same assessment of historical events, such as what happened in the Occupation, where we had the National Resistance, the organizations that took the lead, with the EAM dominance, but we also had donors and partners from the Germans. It also followed a civil and civil state, which pushed the margins, the exiles, the prisons, the hardships, a large part of the country's progressive people. Also, Mr. Karathanasopoles, there was the perception of the imperialist war when World War II began, as well as Nikos Zachariadis from Corfu prisons with his famous letter. So history is read from many aspects and I think that now that many years have passed and democracy has been restored and we have democratic normality and calmness we can calmly appreciate the facts. This does not mean that today's debate should be charged with the way in which we are going to cancel the President's initiative, which we welcomed, totally degrading the procedural part of the case, to which you will allow me to refer at the end, because we believe that the purpose does not justify the means. We should not, in other words, follow this recipe. Ladies and gentlemen, I said that the unanimous decision of the Greek Parliament, which I believe will be made today in the way it took place, and the last time the Committee on the Proclamation of German Indemnity was set up, it is not only that it comes to pleading an inalienable right to the Greek people, which concerns the atrocities of Naziism in our country during the German fascist occupation, which have cost human lives, infrastructure and production, by removing money from the Bank of Greece by means of the forced legacy loan and the removal of archaeological treasures. It is an act of high content, essential in terms of claiming itself, symbolic in terms of historical memory, an act of historical justice and truth that keeps the memories alive for what fascism really is. Because, as the Prime Minister has rightly said, peoples who have no memory have no future. I think that in this spirit of the Prime Minister, who has avoided mentioning in the past and exacerbating memories and situations, we are responding, too, by highlighting the nature of the act of national unity and consensus, because we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no false divisions in these big issues. I said earlier, and I believe that we have the luxury of confronting both political and ideological on a number of issues of everyday life, political decisions, etc., but I think that false divisions may serve party interests and pursuits, but they do not serve the general national interest, as I appreciate and have analysed many times, because the separation of memoranda and non-morandums, with which political life has moved in the past five years, has been a false one and has proved slowly - and day by day. So with this spirit, I think we do not need to add much more. Perhaps only one mention is needed, not because I thought of it, but because the SYRIZA's dear Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Petrakos, made a mention, saying that things have never been done that others have never dared to do, and indeed, has also been mentioned in the position of the honourable Minister of Justice. If things were so simple, we didn't need any committees to make or talk. It's just a simple decision of the Minister of Justice that they'd be done. You saw him put her under a lot of sects when he was asked. I say, therefore, that it is right to remind this House because I think it is a'responsibility' - in good faith, Madam President - of its reasoning, that it does not refer to the actions previously taken by the Hellenic Republic, because we have never accepted that we have no right to such compensation in respect of the damage suffered by the Greek people, as I said, in human lives, in infrastructure and so on. They're deposited, and he said them very thoroughly with the painting Mr. Loverdos gave. Historical starting point is 1990, when the two Germans were reunited and therefore there was a legal right to submit requests. There is therefore a specific list of actions taken by the Hellenic Republic, regardless of who the Foreign Ministers were. Dates also refer to specific political persons. Also very important, in my view, is the fact that while we had the negative decision of the Supreme Special Court, which it considered to be a matter of court proceedings, the Greek Government, and even during a period of intense negotiation, which had to do with the second programme and the well-known PSI, advocated the views of Italy, the Italian Ice Bay at The Hague Court. Historically, the reference to these events proves, in addition to the difficulties faced by the Greek social formation after the war - civil, dictatorships and so on. - that democratically elected governments - especially after 1990 - have reintroduced very specific communications, official communications, the inalienable rights of the Greek people. This must be one of the prisoners in this process of reclaiming, which we will ratify on the basis of the President's recommendation, setting up the National Proclaiming Committee. But, Madam President, without wishing to enter into a controversy about when you sent the coke papers, I would like to say that Article 44, on the basis of which you have called us, provides for the specific procedure for the setting-up and composition of the committees and Rule 45 provides for their operation. Rule 45 therefore refers to us in Rule 34, which provides for the election of a Bureau and says very specifically that the Vice-President is one of the largest opposition parties and the procedure for the election of the Bureau members in committees is very well known. Do you want to preside over? Acceptable. President-in-Office, because you think you will give authority, but do not underestimate the role of Parliament and Members. Because if the President of this House is going to do everything, then what do the other Members have reason in this Chamber, whose activity is not only to place them on the bills, but to make a total contribution to the work of this House? I, too, appreciate that SYRIZA has considerable staff who could, since it is the first party, take over the committee's presiding office. This is what we objected to, but we did not introduce it, precisely because we believe that the major issue is what I said, the question of national consensus and unity, on the indiscriminate rights of the Greek people. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Kutsuko, your party, PASOK, is entitled anyway - and although the measure ranks below the unit and near half - a representative. I'm trying to track down the objection. The procedure you are complaining about is the procedure that gave you nine minutes to speak, and if we were to apply the procedure that you are calling for, you would have two minutes to speak. In fact, if we applied it to the letter you would not have any time to talk at all, since your consent would be gathered and there would be no discussion. Therefore, do not complain when Parliament and Members are given the opportunity to express themselves very much. Because if we were to follow this procedure, which you all refer to, all the Members on whose behalf you are aware, would not have the opportunity to have a speech. So, between us, a little honesty. And when there is the President's willingness to have a debate, let us not question it. I would ask that we finish here because the Members who have declared themselves have not spoken. Please, let's get this over with. I don't think we have any quarrel in fact.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u136	Just a minute, Madam President, because I said more and you say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u137	Please, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u138	I say, Madam President, that I have referred to the circumvention of Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides for how the committees are to be set up. And I said welcome...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u139	My colleague, what you referred to in this article is the second party's right to parliamentary power...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u140	No, Madam President, let me say it like...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u141	...that is, of the New Democracy having a Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u142	Let me say it as I say it. Madam President, do not interpret me. That's not what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u143	That right is recognised anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u144	That's not what I'm saying, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u145	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u146	I say that you are circumventing the Rules of Procedure in order to chair this committee, which, in accordance with Rule 45 referred to in Rule 34, is elected by a Bureau. That's what I'm telling you. I say: Do you want to preside over? Good. But do not degrade the role of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u147	Listen, I really will not go into further comment, because I think the scope of the debate is also being underestimated. I told you: if the question is that there is no PASOK Vice-President to discuss it. Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u148	I should first like to welcome my fellow Members and fellow Members and say that I am very pleased that my maiden speech in this House has a question of German debts. It is a big, national and moral issue at the same time. I will welcome at this step the re-establishment of this intergroup committee of Parliament to claim German debts, with the expectation that the completion of its work will also mean the decisive claim by the country and the government of what is due to us. It is enough for all the governments of the past twenty years to act improperly and procrastinate. I would also like to ask that the conclusion of the Working Party of the Legal Council of the State, which, apart from having surprised us, prevented both the Greek people and Parliament as a whole from having sufficient and documented information on this national issue. On the contrary, the leaks to the unacceptable haircut of the forced loan have further obscured the landscape. But before we move on to the proposals for action, we must consider the shocking account of Nazi terrorism in Greece. It must keep ringing in our ears that we have more than a hundred Holocausts of cities and villages throughout Greece, that we have fifty-six thousand two hundred and twenty-five innocent citizens who were executed, that we have a hundred five thousand hostages that ended up in the horrors of the horror and few of them survived, that we have a thousand seven hundred seventy villages destroyed, four hundred thousand houses that were burned, while in our country we destroyed 70% of the port facilities, 75% of our commercial fleet, a large part of our road and rail network and all of the railway bridges and tunnels. At the same time, 80% of the means of transport and 51% of public and private enterprises were committed. Total losses due to executions, hunger, diseases and infertility during the Occupation amounted to one million and six thousand people or 13.5% of the Greek population, that is the highest percentage throughout Europe. A true genocide was the price that Greece paid because it did not submit to the new class of Adolf Hitler and contributed decisively to the liberation of Europe and of Germany itself by the Nazi yoke. However, Germany still does not take responsibility today. It remains stubbornly uncompromising and German propaganda disorientates, stating that the matter has been closed, dropped or that Greece has been compensated or resigned. Indicative of those at times that have been heard and are recently repeated are the following: Myth One: The issue has been closed with the signature Karamanlis in 1960 with the payment of 115 million marks. The truth is that the Germans, in order to get the release of Max Merten, the slaughterer of fifty-four thousand Jews in Thessaloniki, who had been sentenced to twenty-five years in prison, agreed to pay our country 115 million marks, as compensation which Greek nationals were entitled to, from April 6, 1941 to the end of 1945, "from the organs of the national socialist regime on the grounds of racial religious or anti-Semitism", i.e. mainly for the Jewish victims of the 1st Reich. Myth Two: Seventy years after the occupation, any claims by Greece have now lost their legal basis. The truth is that crimes against humanity are not being tampered with and, therefore, our claims remain in full. As far as the loan is not concerned, there is a contract which binds Germany, which is even called upon to pay for it at very high interest rates. It is also worth pointing out that under the 1953 London Treaty the issue remained in the freeze until the reunification of Germany and the signing of a peace treaty, so that Germany has had the time to heal its wounds and rebuild its economy. Myth 3: Now, did Greece remember the German debts? The truth is that despite the long-term responsibility of the Greek governments, which did not strongly and effectively demand the matter, Greece has never given up its claims, which it has even put before Germany or international courts about fifteen times, starting from the Paris Conference in 1945. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] However, I have been told ten minutes, Madam President. Finally, we consider it unworthy of comment and indicative of the undisturbed propaganda of the German side to be claiming that with the funding of Greece from European or naval resources Greek claims have been met. But let me refer to how all the Greek claims are defined. In addition to the compensation of the victims and their families, who are a private case, the Greek Government is obliged first to claim the forced loan, secondly to make good the damage to the infrastructure of the country, and thirdly to return the stolen archaeological treasures. For the first two, i.e. the forced loan and the destruction of our national economy, the amount due cannot be less than one cent of the euro in 1946 by the Trans-American Committee for Greece. This amount is known - in the case of EUR 162 billion without interest, which is the sum of the interest paid... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will you allow me to finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u149	Yes, Mrs. Caracosta, there's tolerance for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u150	This is shown as a sum of EUR 108 billion. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of life of the population, to improve the quality of life of the population and to improve the quality of life of the population, to improve the quality of life of the population and to improve the quality of life of the population and to improve the quality of life of the population. Greece has received nazi Germany in the form of forced loans. In our government's negotiations with the respective Germans, we must also take into account the treatment which Germany has had with the 1953 London Agreement, which Greece has signed. Then, in addition to the substantial deletion of the majority of the debt, they were agreed to: Firstly, Germany should repay its debts while maintaining a high level of growth and the possibility of improving the living conditions of its population, that is to say, without poverty. That is precisely the basis of the German economic miracle. And for comparison with today, should something like that apply to Greece as well as to its lenders? Secondly, Germany was allowed to replace imports of goods with its own production in order to achieve a commercial surplus and to strengthen local producers. On the contrary, today the rules in force in the European Union and the agreements imposed in our country prohibit the Greek authorities from protecting and helping local producers against their competitors, i.e. the other countries of the European Union. Thirdly, Germany was encouraged to strengthen control over strategic sectors of the economy, while in Greece privatizations are imposed, particularly for foreign investors. Fourthly, it was agreed that Germany should be granted a debt reserve until the reunification of the country and it is known that this debt crisis reached forty-two years. In our case, not only are we talking about this, but also about the country that shows the toughest attitude, it is the country that is then benefited from Germany, which, at the same time, is exempted from its obligations towards our country, which are derived from international law. However, is it true that Greece would be today in terms of economic development and infrastructure, if the German debts had been attributed to it and where would Germany today be if they had not shown so much magnanimity to it that Greece and the other allies which signed the London Treaty, barbing its debt and giving it plenty of time to pay for military corrections so that it could heal its wounds, restore its economy and achieve 'the German economic miracle'? Let us not hide behind our fingers and take into account that the radical decline in Germany's debt and its rapid recovery after the war have become possible thanks to the political will of its creditors. Greece is now suffering precisely because our partners and creditors are absent. But above all, there is the moral obligation to recognise the resistance of the Greek people to fascism. That is why a brand should have been, as Manolis Glezos describes in his book all of Europe must recognise it and support it as a moral right and therefore as our economic right. To conclude, I would like to say that in this committee it would be appropriate for all the struggles that the National Council for the Claim of German Indemnity to give space to a representative of this Board for the valuable help we will have from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Karakosta. Mr. Kyriazidis, since you started going up to the Step and before I gave your name, I would like to give you the floor. Meanwhile, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, a Parliamentary spokesman for the Independent Greeks, who had previously asked for the floor, has also come. Mr Theocharis also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u152	I asked him, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u153	After Mr. Cryazides, you will have the floor. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, our homeland has endured many of the horrific atrocities of Nazi occupation and its consequences. It was an abrupt possession of which was the destruction of our national economy and the literally bleeding of our national wealth and of the public fund. For the devastation of our nation of Nazism, unfortunately, no one has ever been accountable, never asked for an apology, never to compensate for our country, never to pay anything for the suffering suffered by our people and that is well known. Other acts and omissions of the past led in 2015 to no claims have even been raised from our country to the country, friend now, Germany. The initiative taken during the previous parliamentary session, and indeed in a spirit of harmony and unity of all parties, came after some seventy years in order to fulfil an undetermined national obligation, the moral law and the claim of damages due to our country. And not only that, but we must also claim the forgotten occupation loan, that is, our money that illegally grabbed the Nazi regime, a loan whose original debtor may have been condemned to oblivion of history, but its heirs still exist. Our friends and allies Germans must understand that at some point the loans are returned, especially the stolen loans, which are painted with the blood of the Greek people literally. Ladies and gentlemen, the re-establishment, reconstruction and upgrading of the Intergroup parliamentary committee to claim German allowances, of which I was a member, a proposal which I am in agreement, is the least we can do. Madam President, I believe that the upgrading of the committee is not just about your own participation, and I join in what Mr Javarra, Mr Loverdo and Mr Kutsuko have said yesterday, since, yesterday, I would say, you were one-sided by women. You have called thirty women and you have done well, as President of Parliament you have done well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u155	You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u156	But, in the name of the Greek Parliament, without any information from the other parliamentary groups, I will be allowed to tell you that this function should not continue, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u157	Mr Kyriazides, your parliamentary group was represented by two ladies, Mrs Antoniou and Mrs Vultesis, who had been notified and intervened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u158	Of course, but you've arranged all the previous procedure. You didn't know who you called. You have invited them, but they could also be invited for our part to be invited representatives to honour you and not to operate unilaterally. It's not your palace in here. I must stress it. As far as bills are concerned, indeed the first bill to come is irrelevant to what is contained in its headline. Four articles concern the humanitarian crisis. The others are irrelevant to the headline of the bill or as you want to show it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u159	We are talking about German debts today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u160	Please, okay. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a heroic acronym, a witness, Drama.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u161	So talk about the massacres in Drama in Doxato and not tell us now about the women called by the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u162	It is a matter of principle, and the first I have taught, my dear fellow Member, regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure is our President, whom I respect and love. It is well known that the battles of the fortresses of Lisbon, where the Greek Army was delivered only when our country consecrated. Of course it is a fact that the disasters suffered by a bloodthirsty neighboring people, an ally of Axis. We usually refer to the west of Strymon and not the east, because there was a more heated occupation, that of the Bulgarians. I stress this, since the Germans are right to demand corrections, but we also have open issues with the neighbouring country, Bulgaria, as far as monasteries are concerned, such as the Virgin Mary of the Twenty-Six, the Ioannis Prodromos of Serres and other monasteries, of which, in addition to the pillage that has taken place, church treasures of great importance have been stolen. Madam President, we must also link this to a requirement. In my recent question on 16 February, so that the committee can be re-established and therefore the conclusion of the Committee of the Treasury was not answered, because the report was considered confidential, and the question was referred on the grounds that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible, which has the first say in international negotiations, and therefore also in a possible future claim. This was also mentioned today by the Minister for Justice. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Kyriazidis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned answer to his question, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In closing my reference to the corrections, because first of all there is a refusal on the other side, namely Germany, to discuss the matter, I believe that our committee should also examine in advance the possibility of judicial proceedings through the international courts. Therefore, we should call for the assistance of academics and experts in public international law, so that we can act in a coordinated manner and in the best possible way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, I would like to believe that all these issues will be discussed in the new committee, which has to remain intergroup and, above all, patriotic. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u164	Madam President, I have asked for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u165	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u166	I shall speak for a minute on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u167	It is preceded by a parliamentary representative, Mr Theocharis, who has asked for the floor before you. Immediately afterwards, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u168	You told me that after Mr. Cryazides I would take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u169	Of course, I asked you earlier if you would like to speak and make me a nod that you do not want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u170	I didn't ask why I should speak. I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u171	You'll have the floor later. Here, Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly, in my own way, as some people will remember that I did in my first speech, to change the thinking of the debates that I have heard all these hours in Parliament. First of all, as a human and as a citizen of this country, I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Paradise, on the very good news he has told us today, on his intention to sign and implement the decision on the Distom. I think it is the debt of all the Greeks, and we must congratulate the Minister and this government, because, if that government did not exist, there would not be this Minister to make this move after 14 years. I'm a new MP, and today I learned a new code. The code in this House is: "Venizelos". Everybody's talking about Venizelo. Venizelos came and spoke of himself, Mr. Loverdos spoke of Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Koutsoukos spoke of Mr. Venizelos. Everyone talked about Mr. Venizelo. Does Venizelos open a door like "Vangelis" that the Greek film says? Mr Venizelos told us about German immunity, about courts, about legality. Let me remind Mr Venizelos - and I shall put it in the Minutes - that 'the beneficiary Member State, the Bank of Greece and the Financial Stability Fund shall waive this irrevocably and without prejudice to any right of immunity which they already have or may be entitled to in relation to themselves and their assets against judicial action in respect of this Amendment Convention, including for example...'. That's what the loan contract says. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Venizelos has brought this to the House and told us about the German immunity. In other words, we will be re-enacted in this House! I will set another example in order to re-establish ourselves with Europeans, because Europeans are all very good people, very 'democratic'. They have a budget of almost 1 trillion, 980 billion in Europe and they have a very good time, but they do not see the people. Let me remind you of the statement in Mr. Guitner's book, who witnessed when he came to Europe to try to help Greece and its loan problems - and I am a little overdue, but it is the essence - that the statements by the Germans and our friend lenders were: "We will teach them a lesson, they are terrible, they lie to us, they are pricks, and they have exploited the institutions. We'll crush them." These are our friends, the Europeans and our friends, the Germans who loaned us! I'm filing Mr. Whitner's statement. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Technically we have to think that the laws and discussions in the House and in the committees are very good. Let's just say I'm a banker. You will come to the bank and tell me "Someone owes me money, I want to collect it". So let's go to the debacle we're talking about and get away from the prologue. We will introduce two concepts into this committee. The first is the cost of opportunity - I will not say it in English, because we are in beautiful Greece - where are the opportunities that have been lost by the money stolen from the Germans from Greece. This is a cost that lies in all the financial calculations, at all the lengths and backs of the world. The second point is that, beyond the 54 billion without interest, which was stolen from Greece, these funds have necessarily been borrowed, these funds are the own funds - as I call them - of development which the country was deprived of in the post-war period. Imagine that she was deprived of funds, which she was then forced to borrow and end up here where we ended up today. Imagine in your home taking all the money, killing you family, leaving you alone and then telling you "let me lend you to go below". This is a very serious case to leave it in classified reports. I will personally do everything I can to control, as far as my professional adequacy and intelligence helps me, whether the affairs of the General Accounting Office of the State and all relevant experts, who have drafted this classified report, which we will see with the assurance of the President of the Parliament, are correct and whether they have been done properly. There are too many books that say that numbers tell truth, but numbers never tell truth and that numbers translate as they want people to translate them. We have to respect the blood that was spilled. I do not understand why we are talking here today about memorial procedures, when we discuss a sacred subject, the blood which has been spilled by the German boot. Leave the money. People have been killed, a country has been broken down, and we are discussing the memorandum and whether or not we will bring the loan contract to a debate here. What loan contract? The one Mr. Venizelos has misused every immunity in Greece. I will not now speak technically about the whole history, the whole story, because the previous people have covered almost everything. But we must say that the national capital in finance, economics is material and intangible. It's human life that's not appreciated. It is valued by something of the 'cocks' in insurance companies in Wall Street, which I have been with. They said "How much does it make a life?", "How sick are you, to see how much your insurance policy is," and there was in a box a number for a life. We're not like that. We haven't learned that way and we don't have to end up like this, put a cost on life. I reserve, as I have heard colleagues before, whether this committee should be mixed and have German allowances, stolen archaeological monuments and treasures and the mortgage loan. The loan must be separate. I have to analyse it in practical ways, because we will not all be in this committee. However, those outside the House must understand as if they were in this committee how he thinks of paying and how he should think. Give an example. When a check is issued, it has a responsibility for the issue, it recognizes a debt and gives it a debt payment. Many times this check is bilinear, that is to say, only one person, namely Greece alone. Sometimes this check is open, Greece can give it to any third party if the requirement is up. The main problem for the loan to be paid - I say this 'problem' and it is a matter of discussion in the committee - is whether this debt can be assured. I don't know the CV of many, but Mr. Theocharis can understand me as a specialty of many I don't know. If the debt and the claim are established, and there is an irrevocable judicial decision confirming the debt, from there on it is a value, as we say in finance. What is that value? Each of us thinks that we have been acquainted with HISHA, carpets, which we are never getting away with, rather than with forced confiscation or forced law. In order to obtain this debt, it must have a value. Who gives the value to the debt? It does not give it unilaterally, if you want, practically a court, because it can be challenged from everywhere. Unfortunately - that is the truth and we need to know it - the value of the requirement a financial institution gives it. In other words, we will take our demand to a bank, and he will tell us "this requirement is correct, I may write it as a requirement". It's a requirement. It's money. It's not paper, it's time to talk. It wants a great deal of attention, and that is why I also look forward to the separation, if you like, of the corrections and other material and intangible claims to Germany against the subscribed loan, which is a material and not a moral requirement. This must be entered in the books of the State, it must be immediately confirmed, there must be a decision at the highest judicial level. I'll see you in committee about what's going to happen. We have heard that this issue is probably European. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is not European. It's a national matter. Europe cannot accept as a European subject what is of interest and whenever it is of interest. Let's all think that in the last five years we've taken some loans. I have also addressed the President of Parliament, who is extremely working and likes detail. At some point we will also ask to see the loan contracts signed. Let's see how they loaned us if they gave us cash. Let me tell you now that they haven't given us cash, there's no cash. There's a huge mockery. With regard to the clause mentioned by my colleague Mr Georgiadis - we have discussed it many times, but he insists politically on saying it - to say that in all international conventions there is a cult of non-reconciliation. Why? Imagine yourself. When you owe the IKA and go claim something else, the payment stops to the IKA from you legally pending the other decision. No lender leaves a set-off because the loan he gives you and he does well. That is why he does not accept a set-aside. And to remind us that we have not only been "loaned" by Germany, we have been "loaned" by seventeen states. In introductory terms, I put the "loaned for us". We'll see what they loaned us. They lent us guarantees, not cash. We pay interest on state guarantees. Let me also remind you that friends lenders should know that we gave Greece EUR 233 billion of these guarantees, the intangibles, to the Greek banks. Mr Vorides said to me - which is not here, I would remind him - on a channel one day 'but, somewhere, the money has been kept.' "My hand," I say to him, "Don't say that in the air, because if we had kept the bail money for the banks nowadays, we would have a debt ratio of less than 10%. It's not like that. There is a lie and a falsification.’ Why am I saying all this? When they've borrowed you air and "protestants", with "ethical" and "legality" demand that you return the air, while they "fast you" you, they make you poor, they make you unworthy, in no sense you will pay back the air even they gave you. And at the same time they say: “Let it go now. It's time. It's okay. Let's look forward. We're Europe. We'll stain the corners. All right, now, we'll look forward. We owe you one. We'll find them. That's all right.' No, it's okay! You stole gold pounds from us, you destroyed our country, you destroyed our infrastructure, you stole us the money we would use for the development of this poor country, and we had to come to you, after you had stolen us, to lend us again to develop after World War II and the Greek hemorrhaging of the Civil War. It is a disrespect to me for this altar of democracy - I am a young politician - to stir up the blood that has been spilled and the demand for corrections to the memoranda and articles of the Rules of Procedure. The President will forgive me. I've been on the bench four hours. I wanted to get up and yell, but I respect the Rules of Procedure. We cannot speak of blood spilled and invoke the articles, 41 and 44 and 54A, 'COSMOPOLITAN' page 42! I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another thing I had as a citizen: Why is it a matter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? What does it mean, State Department? What is the purpose of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Negotiation, consultation and, of course, 'good' relationships. The 'good' is always in introductory form. What does "good relationships" mean? Greece is currently afraid of Germany. We're hiding behind our finger? Shall we introduce ourselves again? See what's going on with "SIEMENS"? The people who are in the Foreign Ministries have a different purpose. They are intended to have good relations with all states. You cannot want to have good relations with all the states and, at the same time, assigning this man whose purpose - when he has signed and sworn out - is to have good relations with the states to demand something that is difficult for another state. So if Germany hadn't owed us and owed us another state, for example Honduras, Panama, what would we do? Weren't we going to get them? Now what are we afraid of exactly? There was a discussion in the corridors that, if we ask them - especially the rental loan, because they are directly due and can bind the money - it would be, as a colleague told me - in quotes he told me - 'cause of war with Germany'. He put it in quotes. I almost had a stroke. Martial compensation and infrastructure disasters are matters that can be assessed. There are international practices. We didn't find the wheel. They are, however, fighters and it is difficult to calculate and make sure that they are in debts and debts so that you go claim them and collect them. Let me say again that human life, blood, opportunity costs, that is what we lost and what we could have done with the money that we were stolen from us. I am not talking about the five hundred thousand dead and what we would have done with another five hundred thousand Greeks working for Greece. To close, as far as military compensation and the loan are concerned, I am reassured for the last time by saying that the decision on the loan is not involved, because it can be claimed and demanded immediately. These are not subject to the conditions signed by Germany, which ensured the scope for suspension and non-payment of compensation. They are funds paid by the official State to the official German State by means of a loan contract and are conditional on being repaid. The compulsory loans come from agreements between States and the States are continuing. So when Germany tells us 'your state has a continuity', we can say 'your state keeps up. You're too serious as Protestants. We as Orthodox, Mediterranean, simple and fair people would like you to return our money, because you have destroyed our homeland and you have bloodshed a people and you have no right to go back to the debate to forget about it and look forward, because we have learned that history is to look back, to rectify yourself when you go ahead." I will close with one verse of Odysseus Elytis: "They came dressed friends countless times my enemies, the old earth pressing. And the soil never tied with their heel." A lot of people have come by. We are here, and we must honor those who died and fight in their memory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mr Colleague, I would like you to clarify the reservation you have made, given that the committee of the previous period actively dealt with the issue of the loan and heard representatives of the Bank of Greece and the General Accounting Office of the State regarding the existing records. It is very important that not only is the loan registered in the Bank of Greece's archives, but it is also the payment authority, which is a confession of debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u174	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u175	I would therefore just like to make it clear that you do not object or make any difference in this regard that it will be the subject of the committee. I say this to be clear for the Minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u176	To be clear about the Minutes, I would like to say that I fully agree with you. It was a misunderstanding. It is understood, because it is also the basis of the claim or rather the requirement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has asked for a point of order. How long will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u178	I think one or two minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u179	Here, Mr Theochari, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Madam President. It is well known that the River Parliamentary Group supports this proposal for the establishment of the committee. The Vice-President, Mr Lykoudis, spoke in detail on this matter. We support it, because it must finally be, seventy years after the Occupation, a wound that is devastated, a wound that has been exploited in the past, a wound that is a source of conspiracy fantasy, so that the Greek people can progress smoothly further. We also did not object to this debate, which - I think you yourself admitted - is beyond the letter of the House's Rules of Procedure. I fear that this debate will be degenerated, as I estimate that we still have twenty-three speakers and the time you give speakers, the debate still needs something less than four hours. As you can see, it is not possible for this kind of debate to continue until 5.00 this morning and at 10.00 a.m. many of us to have the meeting of the three parliamentary committees to discuss the very important draft law on the humanitarian crisis. I would therefore ask the Bureau to set a limit in this debate, to reduce the time allocated to speakers - my own proposal would be for five minutes - and also to keep tighter - not to say stricter - the time given to them, possibly by using Article 61(1), so that speakers can speak from their positions. Otherwise, I don't see that we're done before 5:00' today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u181	I think it is reasonable to propose that we make an effort to organise the debate and complete it. Let me inform you that there are 20 speakers. I therefore propose that the House accept that we limit the time to five minutes. I also address the self-discipline of each Member, because I would like to assure you - it is time-consuming - that, when an attempt is made on the part of the President to stop or shorten the placement, it is finally being wasted more time. So, I'd beg everyone for self-discipline and self-restriction. If we agree unanimously, we'll go in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u182	After me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u183	As I am surprised, Mr Balaura, and you are the next speaker, I propose that the next three speakers should normally give the time, because it is unfair to have an adjustment so quickly. So it's Mr. Balaouras, Mr. Matthaopoulos and Mr. Stathas. From that point on, let us apply this rule. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u184	So the House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u185	And the Members of Parliament should not speak at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u186	Mr Balaurras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, colleagues - women and men - obviously 2012 has been a cut in compensation, thanks to Manolis Glezou's fight insistence and the political intervention of today's Prime Minister. However, there was a significant delay, despite the fact that there was material. I will say, for example, some interesting materials that could and have probably been used by the Committee, the General Accounting Office and the Bank of Greece: Firstly, the Black Bible of Occupation, published in the early 1990s by the National Council for German debts to Greece. There was the conclusion of the legal advisor of the Bank of Greece in 1963, Mr. Bassia. There was also an important report by the Governor of the Bank of Greece, the first post-liberalisation in 1945, which also made the assessment of disasters, the declaration of Greece and at the same time the mortgage loan and many other things, as it calculated what we would have, if we did not have these effects, that is to say if we did not have the population killed by the war and all that. Also, there were interesting discussions in Parliament, such as since the 1952 ESA, with questions and interventions among others Modes, Evfraimides, Kyrgyzstan, Labrakis. It is interesting to say as an important footnote, to draw some conclusions, that the then Minister of the Papagos named Thebaeus replied on the mortgage loan: "The requirement of the loan has been omitted, because it is a private case." Colleagues, the National Council for German corrections, such as the 'Black Paper' I mentioned, has moved racingly and decisively not only in Greece, that is, not only to the Greek people and political parties - which we ran from the President of the Republic to the Ministers - but also to Europe and to the German people. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] It is of particular interest to note that there are strong enclaves of German citizens, especially young people, who have been on our side on several occasions to claim the debts and at the same time have carried out movement initiatives both in Hamburg and in Berlin and in Frankfurt. I had also taken part in Berlin, where there were more than a thousand people, a shocking number for such a matter within Germany. At the National Council, then, I must say that this was a great help, beyond Glezou, Magakis, Babis Rupas, Mahira, Stumoulis, Zamanos, Koufakos. Fellow Members, the decision of the Court of First Instance in Livada, which did well and was mentioned by the President and other speakers, was indeed an initiative as a natural person in Stamoulis. But this is a fact that hides itself. It was remembered by Mr Loverdos, by Mr Venizelos and others of PASOK and the New Democracy - I think that Mr Georgiadis said so too - that this and this was and that you are now saying that it came suddenly, recently and that there are the good ones and there are the bad ones. But there are, ladies and gentlemen, the good and the bad ones. The Minister mentioned it, Mr. Paraskeviopoulos, that there was a whole route to undermine the decision of the Ice Arena which was justified by the Court of First Instance in Livade. The famous Minister, President-in-Office, President of the Ice Bay - you know that, obviously - Matthias, has drunken a whole story so that there can be the Special Court to stop the positive decision. That's where he hides himself. Stamoulis says he went to Italy. But why did he go to Italy? Suddenly, did Stumoulis take it to Italy to appeal to the court in Florence on this major issue? No, it has also been done here, because of the drunkenness and because of the refusal of the government, then of PASOK, to sign the Justice Minister's decision. The Hague Court since the beginning of 1990... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I won't say anything more because the bell's ringing. I would also like to say a few facts which may be ignored by this House. Following the 1990 '2+4' Treaty, the German Government did the following. Note: Tell the citizens of the United States, who held German bonds in the Middle War, that they will be paid with interest. Note it. Secondly, he has again compensated United States citizens who have had consequences from the war. I'll interpret it later. Thirdly, in the archives of the Bank of Greece there is also an issue that has been written, but it is not particularly mentioned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to ask you, Mr President, for your tolerance in order to provide some information. In the archives of the Bank of Greece I was an employee, I searched the archives and found a note from Andreas Papandreou - I must say it - of 1965. He was not a minister - he was kicked out at the time - and he was also sent to negotiate the loan. The Germans - there is also the note by Andreas Papandreou - recognized his strength and suggested a settlement at the same time with the construction of major projects. In 1966, under government of apostates, Germany sent, on the basis of this negotiation by Andreas Papandreou, recognition of the debt. Third, as a member of the National Council...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u188	Mr Balaura, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u189	I'm done. But I was giving some evidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u190	Yes, but this is at the expense of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u191	Look, I don't make an ideological analysis or say whether it was imperialist war or fascist. I'm saying that for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u192	I am obliged - and that is why you Members voted for me - to maintain a procedure. I am obliged to remind you of this procedure. We've already reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u193	I'll beg you to give me two or three more minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u194	Please don't ask me. Please beg the House. If the House leaves you, then I'd be happy to. What else can we talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u195	Okay. Thank you. In 1966, therefore, Germany formally recognised the debt of the loan. At the General Council of the Bank of Greece I had raised the matter with Papademos, Governor at the time of the Bank of Greece, and said in word - there are in the minutes of the Legal Council - "the loan is subject to obligation and no such requirements are recorded". Same thing he told us about Glezo and the Magakis we had gone to. In the 1990s, U.S. courts held a series of sentences against Germany. I'll interpret it. The citizens of the United States were mostly Jews who appealed to the courts and kept gaining their appeals. America then forced Germany to build an institution, which was built with EUR 5,5 billion, to compensate slave workers who were in business, such as ‘SIEMENS’, ‘BAYER’, ‘BMW’, ‘VOLKSWAGEN’, ‘KRUPP’. So we went as a National Council in Geneva to negotiate our presence. So what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u196	I'm sorry, but you've got ten minutes to talk. It's 1 10 o'clock. I have to be here again in the morning at 10:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u197	I repeat that we have agreed with you and with two other speakers after you that the seven-minute period should be respected. It wasn't kept by you in the seven-minute period. I would ask you, then, to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u198	But I would like to make a point of order. Madam President, every colleague here takes the floor - particularly if he is a parliamentary representative - and he keeps changing the lights. I'm tenth in a row, and I'm talking after five hours. If you think that's right and interrupt me saying things that have never been said in this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Balaura, this way! I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he is prepared to give us an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u201	Mr Mathaiopoulos Artemios from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u202	I will be placed within the time frame, but I would first like to take advantage of some of the limited time allocated to the registered speakers, to make two very brief but necessary remarks to restore the moral harm suffered by the party I represent. The first is the case between our parliamentary representative, Mr Arvanitis, and Members of Parliament from various sides for a debate on an issue which, in the sense of collective responsibility, a legitimate political party, the third political party in the country, was brought to his attention without any evidence at all. I would like to make it clear here that if there were anyone in this Chamber who would like this debate to take place more than anyone else on equal terms, to prove our self-evident guilt - to say it more elegantly - on this occasion, which we condemned at the outset, that would be Golden Dawn. But, you see, we have been caught up with things because a trespass - Mr. Minister of Justice, I am glad that you are present in this debate, so that some truths can finally be heard and that you can take action against a judiciary that plucks justice - closed by phone call, the Chief of the Golden Dawn and other MPs in prison. On the second point concerning the debate that some want to have on a major national rather than a party or an ideological issue, on the re-establishment of the Committee on War Redress and Loan, we regret that the Golden Dawn will not do so in terms of irreversible or mudlocking, because we do not have a pro-war partnership. So you all very well want to continue on this veiled road here to make a monologue with ghosts of the past, as in the past, you yourself live. My speech is the first before the House to have a new composition. I am talking about an issue that, first of all, the Golden Dawn has already raised within its parliamentary activity, starting in June 2012. I would like to make it clear at the outset that the fixed position of the Golden Dawn on this major national issue is summarized, in short, in the following words: "Germany does not owe Germany, Germany owe Greece." Let me repeat this for the lifting of any kind of misunderstanding, historical, ideological or political, that Greece does not owe the Germans, the Germans owe Greece. We are, of course, associated with the initiative of the President of Parliament, because, after all, the committee's re-establishment is seeking the initial proposal of the Golden Dawn, which is about the direct requirement of the German mortgage. I therefore consider this initiative to be appropriate, as timely, and certainly to be associated with a spirit of consensus. We are pleased that this position of the President of this House is far from being the spirit - if you like - of the Prime Minister's speech, who in his programme statements - I would like to believe unwise - divided Parliament into sections and arbitrarily excluded the Golden Dawn from this process, saying that the Golden Dawn is not part of the constitutional arch and therefore cannot have an opinion on the matter that we are discussing today. However, we repeat that this is a national issue and no one has the right to identify who will express an opinion on such an important issue. I said that the Golden Dawn first of all raised this issue. There is a book published by our Parliamentary spokesman, entitled 'The'speakers' I am in prison'. In particular, on page 14 of this book there is a text dealing with this matter. I would remind those who question me that since 12-6/2012, at a press conference given to the House, Mr Papapas has developed the positions of the Golden Dawn with regard to German allowances. In this village you can read some of these places. Indeed, there is also economic data, which are of great value and importance, since this debate is taking place in a time of commemorative crisis, which some want to convince us that these times will finally end with the famous negotiations in Europe. We have a different view. However, it will be appropriate to recall the financial data: the interest-rate loan amounts to a measurable measure of around EUR 510 billion. Another measurement, another forecast of this amount is launching at around EUR 570 billion. Greece's external debt, which was created after five years of a Memorandum Policy after the New Democracy - PASOK, amounts to about EUR 350 billion. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] What does that mean, practically, for the debate we are having today? It means that with a netting, that is to say, Germany's commitment to pay the debt to the loan sharks, Greece could achieve a surplus with which it will finally be able to revive the Greek economy and give a breath of breath to the primary production sector, which is the driving force for the growth of the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] There was a very good position of the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks - I did not retain his name, forgive me - who did an analysis in the light of Max Webber on the Protestant ethics of capitalism. He also spoke of the phenomenon of netting. Yes, we are indeed at a disadvantage, because we have to negotiate with loan sharks. However, anyway, Greece's request to Germany is moral and historical law and so must be addressed. So, then, this government should act if not its programming statements, at least what it promised from this Step, such as addressing the issue with the utmost seriousness, that it will not make similar cysts of the communication type - the ones that we have seen in Eurogroup yesterday - and will demand the fair request of all Greeks, all of Greece, to the German side, who is squeezing the Greek people through bloody tax measures. Considering my obligation to respond - and this is what I am closing - to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, but also to other Members who have attached to procedural matters, to avoid the essential part of the debate, in particular by referring to Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure of the House and by saying that this area is the most important area for the exercise of popular sovereignty, I would like to denounce them as hypocrites, because they remember the Rules of Parliament whenever it suits them and do not denounce the parliamentary coup which is being banned from legally elected in active Members of Parliament to come and testify to such an important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. Mr. Ioannis Stathas has the floor. Mr. Statha, will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u204	Yes, Madam President, to buy time. Today is a historic moment for us, since I am from Distom. In fact, although I had spoken with the Minister of Justice recently, and he had told me that his personal position is to sign the final decision of the Ice Arrow of 2000, I heard him today and I hope that it will be done, since it is a moral justice for the dead. The dead of Distom and the rest of the martyr cities and all those who were lost and lost their lives during World War II and all wars do not belong to the Distomites nor to those who are from Kalavritas, but to all people throughout the planet. That's why we shouldn't have such crimes. For us the key message to pass is that with money and all the gold in the world we cannot pay back the fact that a human life has been lost. Most important of all, however, is that those who commit crimes against humanity know that at some point they will pay for them no matter what years they pass. That's a very basic thing. The second important thing is that we keep the memory alive. Now, with regard to whether we have allies in Germany, I would like to say that last Thursday I was in the German Parliament and I had a meeting with Members of Die Linke who are with us in this attempt to claim German allowances, as well as with the mortgage loan. They are therefore waiting for our committee to make up the sums for the loan and the corrections so that they can claim them with us. But there are also people in Germany who really support us. Then I want to say a fact linked to the 'SIEMENS' scandals. I visited a concentration camp where there were a hundred and twenty thousand women. Right next to this concentration camp there was a "SIEMENS" factory in which these women were working. We see, in other words - as I had already said in the debate on the programme statements - that these women were working for free, as all the prisoners of war have done - at the Siemens plant, where they were then burned on the carpets of those who were not able to work. In fact, the inhabitants of the next village said they knew nothing and thought that there were ovens and baked bread. That was the German historian who gave me the tour last Thursday. When I talk about these issues, because we in Distomo, as in other martyr cities, have grown up in the fatalism and scenes described to us by our grandparents and grandparents, I cannot imagine a man who literally turns into an animal and does all these crimes, i.e. it slaughters and disembowels people. But he does not stop being human. So it is very important at the moment - and given the rise of Nazism - that we pass a message, as I have said before, to those who think in this way, to take their hate out of them. I have also heard in this Chamber some people who have referred to the past. That is something they should forget. The most important thing, however, is to try to become people not only within Greece, but everywhere, because we see the crimes that happen every day. The economy, yes, is a very basic thing. Our society will relaunch. But above all we have to be people and respect each other. Because if we do not respect each other and we have the situation we have found in the past, we have seen the results of what we are talking about today. Like I said before, I won't use all my time. Minister, I sincerely am pleased about what I have heard. I will be delighted to see that the position you have taken today and this decision that you have announced to us is being implemented. That's what I wanted to say. I won't use my time anymore. I wish with the committee which takes the initiative, Madam President, and with the Prime Minister, who was present, that we have these results that we must have and of course go through, apart from the economics that have been heard, and the messages that we can pass on to both Greece and Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Statha. In the meantime some of the speakers have been deleted. I will give Mr Zouri the floor, because Mr Nicholas was next speaker. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask the Members in the back seat not to speak. Come on, Mr. Zurari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u206	Madam President, my pleasure to you. Well, I have five points to mention: Firstly, the prospect, which for the first time honors our defeated Greece, is a war race. "As a tyranny, the Germans have the beginning," "because it is dangerous" for them, Roses. They will not leave it with the well-known flexibility of the Germans who were fighting when the Red Army entered the Soviet flag in Berlin. They will fight because they have this "efficiency" by their culture, by their inflexibility. Therefore, firstly, it will be a war operation. Also, for those who are naive with the incompetent doctrines believe that they are Europe and are Europeans etc., I would refer them to their own poet in 1796, who says that "Germans with their culture and mathematics became even more barbaric than they were." And this is "Eremitis the Greek", and so is "Travel in Greece". Thirdly, because the war conflict is multi-factorial, so with its very insightful observation on the justice of our Minister, I should like to remind you that, together with the political, as you have noted, the political situation is continuing, and therefore within the political perspective during the hostilities, it will be necessary, for example, for one of the elements of our total defence against the hostilities of the Germans, to refer them to them as Rogue states or atats voyous in accordance with the first original languages of the United Nations of '45', as a state which commits 'harp', according to our tradition, according to Ottoman. They must therefore be condemned as a robbery state, as condemned by the UN and Libya, Iraq, etc., with ridiculous appeals. This is a robbery state. And of course I would remind you that we have been swept through the middles of our staging subsystem by the Germans that 'the States have continued'. Therefore, since the Nazi regime has recognised the first two instalments, the post-immigrant regime must continue, because our media have swelled them. The next: Animation means that on the basis of the characteristics of the Germans it will be long and long-standing. Long: we have the advantage, moral and legal, that crimes against humanity are indiscriminate. They're never falsified. Well, you are. And so this must continue as long as we have the power and as long as we have the ability to have this attitude in Greece and the Greek Parliament to go to both our children and our grandchildren. I do not foresee that the Germans, because they are precisely an enemy and are playing their ass, are going to retreat, only with an overall approach on our part as enemies. Because it's an enemy. And I have the impression that those with the glorious doctrines believe in Europe and their Europeanism and that we are 'Europeans' and so on, and I would remind you that Plato had said that we were not only the first Europeans for millennia, but also the only Europeans, and therefore we have left behind Europeanism. Therefore, the Huns or the barbarians, who have constantly committed these intercurrent crimes, should understand that they will have this opponent, the defender, as we defended in the biggest surveillance after 1821, in 1941 to 1944. We were then in possession of the winners. The winner of Greece has turned to defeat Greece, and that is what we are suffering from now. For it has been the American domination, and so we are now back on our feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Zurari. Mr Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u208	I would like to speak not only as a member of the SYRIZA but, acting unanimously, as a member of the Thessaloniki City Council, despite having left the city recently, on the Network of Testimonials and Countryes of Greece 1941-1945 and as a member of the local committee for claiming German debts. For years - unfortunately, a handful of people have been going - on the day the city was occupied by Nazi occupation troops, 9 April 1941 outside the German consulate. There is, of course, an incredible care - five buses of MM - and after labor and torment - we are able to meet the German consul, in order to put the claim and the principle that crimes against humanity are not being retained. We don't owe them. They owe us. That's what we write in our banner. You'll probably have seen it in the papers. We remember, of course, to the German consul that the chortians who killed them along with the battalions had saved the German airmen when they fell on their plane and anointed their burns with oil from the canteen. That's why they thought they wouldn't have suffered this terrible atrocity and stayed in their village. Of course, all we receive is that we need to organise various memory actions in schools. And I would like to say to you - take note of it, it is of enormous importance - in the context of the neoliberal abuse of history the term 'historical memory' has been replaced with 'the memory of history'. Everything's been abused. And because time is short, I want to raise a matter. I do not understand when Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Loverdos discovered the claims of the Jewish community of Thessaloniki. Where was it when these people went to the Court of Human Rights? No support whatsoever. They rejected their request in the throwing of an eye. Architecture Max Merten, who was the nationalist Karamanlis amputated him in 1959 to admit that the Israeli community paid a half and a billion drachmas at that time to save its male members from their invasion into coercive projects. But he didn't finally make it. I would like to tell you that the coming Sunday - and I would also like a message from the House - is a sad day for our city. It's the saddest day in the history of Thessaloniki. On March 15, 1943, the first train left for the unscrupulous for Auschwitz's vagina. They were sealed wagons that used them for the transport of animals. One of these steam engines will be there on Sunday, with one of these wagons at the old train station. On the initiative of SYRIZA's party - we say that and we praise - the Thessaloniki City Council established this day. Every year we take a course from where the drama of our Jewish fellow citizens began, from the Liberty Square to the old railway station. I think the House should send a message. It's not just about the city. Thessaloniki is the most martyr city in Europe. No city lost 98% of its Jewish origin. Also, I remind the lambs that in this city on May 15, 1941, a month after it was occupied by the Nazi troops, the first resistance organization was founded in the occupied Europe, the "ELDRARIA". I would like to end by saying this: I would like to agree with the two issues to which the representative of the JRC has also referred. Firstly, there can be no netting, even if it was 1 euro. We do not claim justice for Nazi crimes in this country, because we have financial hardships and "we've" with our lenders, who have strangled us financially. I'd consider it a sacrilege. Secondly, I cannot feel any kind of 'hospitable' with those who have their Hitler driver and consider him a'reformer' of Europe, who mimic the methods and nostalgic his crimes, who have written up songs against Auschwitz's victims. I cannot be on such a committee - not to say that I do not want to offer my services - to people who continue to insist on Nazis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Mitafidis. By interpreting the feelings of this House, I believe, to urge us to adopt this proposal at the end of the sitting, for a resolution - a message of memory for the victims of the Holocaust of Thessaloniki, which is important to remind - exactly what you said - that it was an unspeakable witness city on the ground. And on this occasion, I would like to tell you that it is of particular importance to involve a representative from Thessaloniki in the committee, precisely because of the events you have pointed out and precisely in order to keep this huge chapter out of sight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u210	Madam President, if you allow me, I would just like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u211	You're welcome, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u212	In the context of the project and the committee, I have discovered that tens of millions of euros were disbursed from the Municipality of Thessaloniki's accounts in support of the needs of the occupation troops, by decision of the Land Council. In the context of the claim - the German debts - I put it in the Municipality of Thessaloniki - we should have filed a complaint against the German State asking for their alleged return.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. I believe that this is also a starting point for looking for such files and data in local municipal councils, apart from Thessaloniki. The next speaker is Mrs Evangelia (Litsa) Ammanatidos - Easter. I should like to say that they have been deleted from the list, because they stated that they are withdrawing, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou from New Democracy and Mr Yiannis Kefaloyannis also from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, the claim of German debts to the Greek public and Greek people is a major national issue and our historic debt. For all the atrocities, crimes and disasters committed by the Nazi forces of the Third Reich to the detriment of the Greek people, but also for the strong resistance of the Greek people on German occupation, for the struggles that are deeply reflected in the country's collective and historical memory, we cannot take a position. Because Triantafyllos Mitafidis was mentioned about Thessaloniki, I want to speak about another case that is a few kilometers east of our city in the testimony of Chortiatis, in which in September 1944 another holocaust will occur in literality. The Nazi occupation troops will burn alive a hundred forty-nine inhabitants from three months to eighty-five years old as a retaliation for the Greek resistance and will completely destroy the village. Chortiatis will be one of Greece's martyr cities to deal with Nazi atrocity at levels that are inconceivable to the human mind. Hortiatiatias as well as the dozens of other martyrial cities in Greece - ninety of the number - from Crete to Prototsani of Drama and from Serres to Distomo, Kalavrita, Candano and not only will they take no drachma then from German debts. We are therefore talking about money owed to us by the German state and coming from either the wonderfully dominating loans that the Nazi state has taken to serve the war and charged them to the Greek state, or from military compensation for the disasters suffered by our state by the war attacks it has taken and the so-called corrections. The decision of the Paris Commission in 1946 gave Greece a loan of USD 7.1 billion for the purchase price of 1938, which, of course, have never been paid. Today this debt is about EUR 108 billion without interest. Consequently, Germany has not repaid its debt adjustments to Greece. Unfortunately, the Greek governments of the past have never claimed this money, which had to be paid with the union of the two Germans. And while it has been 15 years since then, unfortunately, the Greek governments who have been intervening did not ask for anything. However, the Greek Parliament has started - although with great delay - a worthwhile effort. A series of initiatives such as the relevant decision of the Committees on Economic Affairs and National Defence and Foreign Affairs, the current Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras's letter to the then President of Parliament, Evangelos Meimarakis, and the timely question of SYRIZA Members, were established last March. Of course, we are not forgetting the decisive contribution of the agonist and current MEPs Manoli Glezou, who are now fighting at the European Parliament's level the very serious national issue of honour. This is therefore an effort that we must continue, also looking forward to other European forces and international organisations having contacts with other European Parliaments and with the European Parliament and with European and international bodies dealing with such cases. At such a critical moment for our country that the entire Greek people are still suffering from the burdens of the Memorandum policies and the time that our country has been put into a lever-driven, Greek debt, it is important that we should be able to exhaust every means to claim and take as it has done with all the other countries what is due to us. Germany, England, France, Poland, Yugoslavia, on the basis of the 1953 London Treaty, declared the German corrections and were compensated. The 1953 London Agreement is clear. There is no question of waiving these debts. And as much as they try to blur the waters with the sponsorships of Germany to the martyr municipalities through the establishment of the Greek-German friendship link, which was mentioned by the Deputy Minister, Mr.Sychos, it is hypocritical. And it is hypocritical that the German Government shows too much zeal in pressing our country to be consistent with its debt repayment obligations, and that Greece is rightfully and legally ignoring them. It is therefore time to move on to the re-establishment of the Intergroup with the proposal of the new President of the Parliament, Zoe Konstantopoulou, who has also taken the initiative and the establishment of an audit committee for the unsustainable and unsustainable debt. We must all do our utmost to repay German compensation and redress and the forced mortgage. It is a matter of honor to all that this place has suffered from the German boot, from the German occupation, but also all that has been living in the last five Memorandum years. I conclude by saying that with the commitment of the Minister of Justice, Mr. Paraskevi, the road is finally opening for the justice of the victims of life and of their relatives who have been claiming compensation all these years through the National Council, but also for all the Greek people and their dignity. Thank you and apologise for the abuse of time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mrs Amanatidou. I'll call the next speaker. It's Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos from PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u216	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the demand for military allowances and mortgages from the Federal Republic of Germany is a matter that touches the heart of the Greeks and penetrates our collective memory. We welcome with a sense of responsibility towards the Greek people and our history, the re-establishment, reconstruct and upgrade of the committee responsible for the issue of the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee. This does not mean, however, that the requirement of military allowances and, in particular, the forced loan had not been formulated to date. This does not mean that some, for micro-political reasons, can unequivocally claim their contribution to the launch of a long-standing dialogue. This does not mean that, for reasons of purely communication, some can spread unreserved news and lies, that there was supposedly a vote in the European Parliament plenary on the Greek claims for military compensation, corrections and repayments from Germany, that some Members of our country voted against this vote. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to turn this major national issue into an opportunity for party competition, a factor of misery. On the contrary, we all have to deal with it as an important opportunity. To unite around national issues, beyond the political, historical and cultural divisions, because national dignity and patriotism are not the privilege of some, but the common place of all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, what is important today is that the Greek people learn the whole truth about the attitude of various governments towards the issue of war compensation and the borrowing. I feel, therefore, that I should like to remind everyone that in 1990, which was a landmark year, when Germany was united, under the mandate of Mr Carlos Papoulias, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, the German counterpart, was legally documented by the international responsibility of Germany, in particular with regard to the loan. Immediately afterwards, the unification of Germany, the Greek Government has reopened the dialogue on this major national issue. And not only then. We forget that in 1997, the President of the then Parliament, Mr Apostolos Kaklamanis, set it up by the then Minister for Foreign Affairs and Anti-Cancellor Mr Kinkel. After all, these issues have been raised and formally raised through the diplomatic process. They are not solved by unilateral statements and journalistic information, because such weighty issues need to be addressed under international law. I would also remind you that in 2000 the President of the Hellenic Republic, Mr Constantine Stefanopoulou, then presented it in the official way, with the approval and signature of the Greek Government, to his German counterpart on his official visit to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the top political and, at the same time, legal energy has been made by the last PASOK government. It has been described in the most substantiated way before you by the President of PASOK, Mr Vangelis Venizelos. This is the decision for the Hellenic Republic to intervene in the trial initiated at the International Court of The Hague on the initiative of Germany, which asked the International Court of Justice to raise a barrier, invoking the State's international immunity. The then PASOK government decided that Greece would intervene as a non-party in this case, arguing that Germany had no state immunity. It was intended, by decision of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, to form the procedural framework within which such matters can be dealt with. Let them, then, show some more moderateness, do not come out publicly and distribute inaccurate remarks. Let's all be more careful about the public speech. Let us put forward the patriotic duty against any party benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, the upgrading of the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee to take a first step of cooperation between the parties to the democratic constitutional arch, to deal with the truth, seriousness, honesty and consistently this national request. The issue has been raised and must be retabled, as International Law provides for, politically and diplomaticly, as I have said, on a bilateral basis and in a documented manner. But what matters today is when we talk about national unity, to mean it. Let us make it clear to each other that what we say, we mean, what we mean, doing. We owe it to our country, to all those who gave their blood to be free today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to give content and meaning to the word co-operation and to work in such a way that the appropriate international environment is established, that everyone understands that the Greeks united and with a concrete and documented view they are asking for a solution, but with respect for bilateral transnational relations and international law. We all believe that only through a national integrated strategy can we have the desired result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the following requests have been made: From 25 February 2015, Ms Anna Karamanlis' application for a absence abroad from 1 to 3 March and from 19 to 22 March 2015 for personal reasons. From 25-2-2015, under protocol number 377, an application from Ms. Niki Kerameos for a absence permit from abroad from 9 to 11 March 2015 for personal reasons. The request from Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis from 9 March 2015 for a absence abroad from Thursday 12 March 2015 until Monday 16 March 2015. From 10 March 2015, Mr. Konstantinos Tsukala’s request for absence abroad on a party mission from 10 to 20 March 2015. On 10 March 2015, Mr. Nicholas Michalakis requested a party mission from 10 to 16 March 2015. In addition, from 10 March 2015, Mr Giorgos Koumoutsakou’s request to be absent abroad for personal reasons from 11 March 2015 to 14 March 2015. From 10 March 2015, Ms Dora Bakoyannis’s request to be absent abroad for personal reasons from 11 to 13 March 2015 and from 18 to 20 March 2015. Finally, Mr. Konstantinos Zourari's request from 10 March 2015 for a absence abroad from 12 March to 17 March 2015 in response to an invitation from parties of the National Council of Cyprus. Does the House approve the requested permits?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u218	The House approved the requested permits. I also propose in total that we look at the question of Members present in plenary at a next meeting. Mrs. Rachel Makri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. The German Government claims that the public debt haircut, of course not the Greek public debt, as you most likely understood and rightly wondered why the German Minister of Finance had taken the stand at the Eurogroup meetings. Germany without dialogue, without institutions, wants to cut off its moral and economic obligations towards Greece. They are invoked to oral agreements of duplication and they stop discussions when Greek requirements for legality are put in place. But no matter how much they try to forget, we don't forget. We do not forget the results of the Nazi occupation and the fascist outrages of violence, such as executions, massacres, atrocities experienced by our ancestors throughout Greece. Kozanis is an area that paid a heavy blood tax. Two of the Nazis' most horrific crimes during the occupation were the double holocaust at the Congregation Messobon and the Towers. On April 23, 1944, the Germans, with the help of donors, baked and burned alive, without any distinction, three hundred eighteen men, women, men, children and infants. They burned their homes and grabbed all their belongings. The voices of anguish, anguish and fear of the inhabitants of the village towers that morning will never erase from the memory of those who were rescued. The earth was frightened by those voices, Athena Chilogannis tells us. We are not claiming money to forget atrocities, we are not claiming revenge, but redressing the memory of the wronged unarmed female children who have paid their blood for defending and defending our country. For these reasons, the Greek claims are morally heavy, inalienable and fully documented historically, legally and politically. Uniform and indivisible claims against Germany include, in addition to the moral and symbolic compensation to the families of the victims of the Nazi atrocities, the mortgage loan, the corrections for the destruction of the infrastructure, the grabbing of the wealth of the Greek people and the return of our stolen and looted archaeological treasures. How are these amounts being valued? According to the online version of the ‘DER SPIEGEL’ it is estimated that Germany owes Greece EUR 108 billion for the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure and EUR 54 billion for the mortgage loan. According to the Germans, all this corresponds to a large part of the current Greek public debt. However, finding is not enough. The discussions of committees with historical references and philosophical debates are not enough, nor can we rely on the good will of any minister who, having the best of intentions, does not have the institutional basis and scientific documentation necessary to provide the demands. For the above reasons, the main concern is the re-establishment of the Committee on the Claims for Greek Claims vis-à-vis Germany, which must operate in a transparent manner in its actions and in the planning of its moves, based on the effective foundation of the claim. The Committee should select the objectives, procedures and methodology to be followed by international experience. A basic proposal in this context is the registration of claims in the Greek budget in order to make the demands. This way is based on international experience, requires a specific design and expertise of methodology. I consider, after studying and working out in the previous parliamentary term, that it can successfully lead to the vindication of national requirements. As something has been said about settling out throughout Parliament, in addition to the arguments heard by Mr Mitafidis, this requirement cannot in any case be offset by an obligation linked to the country's debt, as the debt is burdensome and disgraceful and it must be determined by establishing a audit committee. Madam President, I call on you, because you have announced this, to proceed immediately with the establishment of this committee, so that the government of all the Greeks can carry out and implement its commitment to the Greek people for their deletion. The taking-up of an initiative for the re-establishment of the Greek claim committee against Germany by the Greek Parliament is an important step, a step in the Greeks' fight for the vindication of all those sacrificed. In this fight, we are not acting re-insurgently, but in compromise, because in moral justice, we do not have a re-insurance, nor do we have a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rachel McCree. I would like to say that the initiative to set up a debt audit committee, which Mrs Amanatidou also referred to, is an initiative that specifically concerns Parliament's contribution to demanding the deletion of that part of debt that is not due, which is illegal, reprehensible and which must be eliminated. The next speaker is Ms. Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is really worthy. I would say that it is worth our nights, because this is a very serious matter and it is about our history, it is about the honour of this people. It has been about seventy-five years since the beginning of April - on 6 April - the Hitler boot has been in our country. Deep darkness covered our country. With tetonic methodicity, the occupation status and its local partners crushed anything, every wealthy source, every resource of this Greek land. Greece's involvement in the war has had huge and disastrous economic consequences. Our country, in addition to its obligations to pay for the occupation troops, was obliged to send its products in the form of forced lending to the host countries. Subsequently, the issue of huge amounts of banknotes with soaring over-inflation was followed, and the currency had completely lost its value, even within hours, mainly due to an increase in food prices. Transactions were made on the basis of the pound and on the basis of oil, for example. From official sources it is estimated that they were guarded by the conquerors in the population of 16 million gold pounds, half in money and the other half in items. The Greek economy was damaged about 325 million pounds of gold. We cannot say that the Greek people were forced to accept in their dealings the false mark of holding a false German bank, with which the German troops were robbing their goods in the months of April until August 1941. In addition to this fraudulent system of privatization of private goods, however, the Greek State was forced to buy these counterfeits in order to withdraw them later from circulation. With the counterfeit bill the Greeks were stolen once and they were stolen once again by the Greek government, compelled to buy them. All of this, of course, is like robbery patterns of colonialism. Professor Baronis at the Paris Intercom Conference in December 1945, said: “The 25% of housing in Greece was destroyed. Approximately 70% of the port projects and 75% of the commercial fleet were destroyed. The rail network was also destroyed.’ However, I cannot say here that after the war in 1946 there is a report at the Ministry of Public Works which details all the consequences of the German occupation. This is a well-known report under Professor Doxiadis. No government, however, after the war did not effectively and decisively claim. There was frugality and irresponsibility. Professor Angelopoulos in 1962, in an interview with "BIMA", says: "We fully satisfy the claims of all others, but we neglect our claims". How timely is this today? It's been about fifty years since. In 1996 we have the National Board of Remunerations. At first, they may have been considered as graphics by those who participated. But in the course, they were truly vindicated. He's back in public. And this is a dominant and important weapon that we have. The Samara government, however, did not have this strength to take responsibility for society. It has been restricted to booming initiatives, but it has never officially raised the issue against Germany. But now we have another government. With the evidence and evidence available to date by universities, bodies, by the Commission itself and the Committee on Arbitration, there is a desire for an effective claim on the debts, which no other government has so far done. On the other hand, the attitude of each German government, in addition to the violation of international treaties, is also abusive behaviour, as it does not recognise Greece's contribution to the liberation of Germany itself from the nazi yoke, but also does not agree with the leniency shown by Greece in 1953, in the London Treaty to restore the economy of Germany. The message that the Greek Parliament must send is the message that the National Board of Claims of Germany to Greece has for years said: The fight is a fight for claim, it is not a struggle for revenge. It is a demand for justice and is a prerequisite for reconciliation between the two peoples. We have nothing with the German people, which recognizes and supports the effort. However, I would like to mention something else here: An expedition tabled by Die Linke, the Left Party, to the German Parliament, states: 'The Greek Government has asked for negotiations to make good the loan?' The German Government's answer was: ‘No request in this respect since then’. This is an answer which leaves the Samara - Venizelos Government exposed, especially when Die Linke's question had as the starting point a scientific service opinion of the German Parliament, according to which Greece can, with equal chance of success under international law, express its own view against Berlin's unequivocal refusal to reconsider its position. In conclusion, I would like to say that the former President of the Republic, Mr Papoulias, at a meeting recently held with the German President, raised the issue of German allowances. He warned Germany that if it continued this process, not to recognise the existence of a subject, Greece reserves the right to resort to international arbitration, which means essentially the International Court of The Hague. Today our government opens up opportunities for an international conference on German debts and Greece's final vindication. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] This is our debt, not just against the struggles, the fighters of the National Resistance, who are left behind anyway. It's our debt to history. And most importantly, it's our debt to the new generation. Thanks and apologies for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting - which has been said by many - has indeed been of a historical nature. A number of attempts have been made to claim the German corrections and the entire loan. But they did not have the desired effect, because perhaps there was no political will? Now, for the first time, however, the government is elected in a programme position to claim compensation for crimes against the people, natural wealth and cultural heritage by the nazis. It is very important that both the government's programming statements and the President's opening speech set out this claim. We are continuing the struggle from an institutional point of view now and we are catching the thread of the kinematic mobilisations in Greece and abroad for the recognition of the occupation crimes by the current German state. The re-establishment of this Commission and the objective of both tangible compensation and justice is a central idea of our policy. The Greek Parliament today is called upon to reflect the struggles of our people, to pay tribute to those who fought for democracy and freedom, to echo the injustice that our country experienced and to stand up, primarily asking for moral recognition and then - but not secondaryly - material compensation. Fascism didn't hug him, we fought him. Greece, with its great heritage, was a key pillar of resistance to the struggle of Europe and all democratic states against irrational violence, war, Nazism and totalitarianism. Although the aim of the committee is to find a substantial, realistic and concrete solution to the question of the way in which this solution can be claimed and as an axis to operate at both political and judicial level, I would nevertheless like to focus on the ethical aspect of the request. Can anyone find and appreciate any human life lost fighting or blind mania? Can it define precisely the level of compensation for each of the hundreds of thousands of disabled persons left behind? Can he have knowledge of every pillaging of property, fields and so many souls? Is there an economic scale for the orphan, hunger and impoverishment of an entire people? It's often hard to correct a damage, especially when it comes to damages suffered by individuals in their flesh and their lives. First of all, however, we must force the current German Government to recognise the millions of victims of the National Resistance as a fighter for peace throughout Europe, to retrospectively assume the responsibilities of its history, to do what we are asking for to be justified by the dead and to make the living feel that the cycle of endless plundering for our country is closed. Economic, political and cultural are the fields that are spreading this claim, but mainly morally, for our national collective memory and dignity that is now centuries old. The Dodecanese - which, a few days ago, on 7 March, we celebrated their incorporation into Greece and the President of the Parliament - even though they were under Italian domination most of the time, but during the period 1943-1945, they paid the price of the German occupation severely. I will submit to the Minutes of the House the list of people who were executed, imprisoned, died of hardships and concentration camps. This list is from Kostas Tsalahouris' book "Rodos '43-44, days of resistance and betrayal". I will also present an excerpt from the book of Nikos Nikolaos and Antonis Angelis "The Rhodes of the twentieth century", in which the dodecanese resistance is recorded. Finally, I would like to emphasise to those who accuse us of playing with the matches of history by wanting to relaunch old enthusiasm that we are that political force which naturally and safely stand against domestic and foreign fascism, which defends the fights of the peoples for independence, democracy and freedom and that our ideological roots and our political heritage starts from the National Resistance and ends up in the great international demonstrations to defend the right to work and dignity. Our government does not turn the fuse on nationalistic passions. We have nothing against the German people, nor do we consider him responsible for what the Third Reich did. Our whole effort is a restoration of law and not revenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Santorinio. Mr. Ioannis Zerdelis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly refer to two facts. One is a historical event not far away so that there are no eyewitnesses and memories of living and nightmareing those who survived the massacre. On May 23, 1941, and May 25, 1941, in the Candan Gorge, residents of the village with a high sense of defending the old country, the altars and the outbreaks are defending fighters and almost unarmed against the Germans of Hitler's Nazi regime. The battle is being killed and twenty-five German soldiers are not executed. The losses of Greek fighters to the dead are much more. On June 2, 1941, in retaliatory retaliation, Candanos is ruthlessly bombed, and the village is burned and burned. On 3 June the executions of those who survived begin. Germans, after the holocaust, make a unique energy in world history. They have three inscriptions of the barbarity of Nazi hatred and their crimes. This is the first time that those who confess and are proud of their crimes, so they must pass on to the reminder of history. One of the inscriptions, the marble, writes in German and Greek: "Here was Candanos. It was destroyed for atonement - I note: 'to atonement' - 'the murder of twenty-five German soldiers'. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] The second event, about the same period in 1943, relates to the issue of four letters from Albert Cammy to a so-called German friend. A friend didn't exist. It concerns the Nazi regime in Germany, the suffering of war, and I refer to a small passage from these letters. "You say Europe, but you think land for barracks, land for sitophones, controlled industries, guided mentality. Am I exaggerating? At least, however, I know that when you say Europe, even at your best times, when you are dragging your own lies, nothing prevents you from thinking of a multitude of persuasive nations driven by a German masters. These two events, the destruction of Candan and the letters by Albert Camy became about the same period of time, but they come today very close after the passage of historic time. To conclude, I would say that if I were a German democrat, I would have another reason to satisfy Greece's fair demand, an important and moral reason: not to haunt our lives and our culture the sign in Candan and the letters from Camy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u226	We would like to thank Mr Gerdelis for the poetic way in which he is addressed to the House. Mr. Nikos Manius has the floor from SYRIZA. I would clarify that all the remaining speakers are from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and I will therefore not repeat this every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u227	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members, I would not have spoken - I would have spoken last time - but one - two simple things. The amount of compensation, what the disasters were, we have listened to them in detail. In claiming these loans, we claim our past, the past which often goes like this, as a devalued value. Because the winners write the story as they want, the claim of the past, on whatever occasion, is of paramount importance, not only to us who have suffered these disasters and are asking for compensation, is for man, it is for what we call humanity, for a smooth and more progressive development of societies. Therefore, in claiming compensation, we claim the correct historical memory, which has been altered here many times, not only the memory of the period of Occupation and disasters, but also who and when he proclaimed that memory. Each one, expressing his political space, perhaps exceptions, saw only his own leaders claiming. Almost apart from the symbiotes, I have not heard anyone else - I may have missed someone - who said Glezu's name to claim these allowances. Who else has done the fight that Glezos has done? And he keeps doing him at that age. One of the reasons I'm talking is to honor Manolis Glezou's struggle, a match that started since she down the swastika and continues. But I learned tonight - and I am of the opinion that as long as man is old, he learns - that both I and II of the World War were because there was right and left nationalism. That's a new one! And what did I remember? I remembered that the Trojan War had been done for the beautiful eyes of Helen. It had nothing to do with either the sitocons in the area or the narrow ones. So this is very new and interesting, learning at my age this thing. There was no capitalism, no economic controversy, there were no classes that did the war and classes that suffered the war and served him. And if there is an objection and a very serious objection to the general notion of national homogeneity in claiming these allowances, it is precisely that point, that there has been a war of classic, imperialist nature. Another reason that interprets and why in Greece they did not pay compensation and why we cannot talk about national confession is that in Greece we had one of the largest pieces of defenders of the conquerors, subordinated to the conquerors. This submission continued after the Civil War and during the Civil War, which was also an element of the challenge of the Civil War, and a subjection that was followed decades later, not only during the post-war state period. That's why they never decided to give anything of the compensation, and they always had us in their hands. It will also be excellent for the committee, it will also be good for the legal work it will need to support this, but if the committee does not become a core that will move earth and sky in and out of Greece on the issue of compensation, we have nothing to expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Nikos Manios. You will give me the opportunity to say that it will be my own initiative as President of the House and with the opportunity that the Rules of Procedure will set up a committee to help the work of this Intergroup Committee, to which I intend to be Manolis Glezos. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Mr George Ursouzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u229	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is the first time that from this Step I have been using the mandate of the citizens who trusted me and I would like to thank them for giving me this opportunity to try to be beneficial to the place. This initiative by the Greek Parliament is not about the German people. He was not the mobilizer of Nazi atrocity, nor could any people be. The strong economic interests, the dark powers, the abyss hate in the altar of profit were the ones that forced the German citizen to participate in acts of unprecedented barbarism for the history of humanity and against the nature of man. The present procedure is not an act of claiming compensation from the German people, it is the action that is due to the unscrupulous capitalists who are behind such actions. Besides, the role of AKLA in Germany and Italian industrialists in Italy is now known before the event of Nazis and fascists. Today's process is the energy due to the economic organizations that are the successor of those who have bloodthirsty and plundered those peoples who have stood up to them. It is the energy toward young people to reveal the truth in a document and a clear way so that the enthusiasts of Nazi atrocity are revealed, as are the economic interests behind them. History repeats itself in an amazing way. Almost all European countries, the new Nazi movement is a painful reality. It is a question of moral order to claim the right of the victims and the plundering suffered by the country by the Nazi expression of capital. They are not the people who are being guided by the riches of other peoples, they are clearly the financial establishments that are being guided by the people's riches and have the means to kill peoples in acts of violence. I do not know what the financial outcome of this initiative will be, as at least some people understand it, but it will certainly bring to light aspects of history and will help young people in this country and other countries understand the role of capital over time. And that is a great benefit indeed. It must be understood that the German citizen has a home, the German capital is not. So what emerges from this initiative by the Greek Parliament is not about the German taxpayer, but about the stateless capitalists. So the committee's task is to investigate and reveal those who have really benefited, and their partners here, who have privilegedly conquered the wealth of this country by succeeding the conquerors in a country where the Nazis unfortunately did not lose the war. They have to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much to Mr Ursouzide and to highlight the importance of performance of truth in the process of historical memory and claiming. Mrs Aphrodite Staboulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, although the issue of German allowances as a whole has almost been exhausted by previous speakers and speakers, I cannot do anything to help this House with the holocaust of the Serres, which has just been mentioned in today's debate. On October 17, 1941 the Nazi occupation troops as a retaliation for the action of a small rebel group called "Odysseus Androutsos" in the wider region gathered all male inhabitants from fifteen to sixty years of the villages Ano and Kato Kerdylia, that is more than two hundred people, and executed them up to one. Then they burned the homes of both villages so that the families of the victims could lose all survival in the area. This is one of the most barbaric stories of mass retaliation, one of the first in fascist Europe, without, of course, forgetting the retaliations of the Fascist Bulgarian army in Drama and Cormist Serres a few weeks earlier, but also the Nazi retaliations in Crete that had begun immediately after the end of the homonymous battle. In 1950 there were two small cedars, while in 1978 a monument was set up in honor of road crossing the roads leading to the Upper and Lower Kerdylia. In 1998 the New Awards community, which was established in the meantime, was characterized as a martyr city. Therefore, coordinated with the other martyrial cities, the Cordials claim the compensation owed to them by the perpetrators of the crime, compensation that will not solve them any financial problems, nor much more can it make up for the tragic life of orphans and permanent black and white women in the hard struggle for survival in Greece in the first post-war decades. But it will give them a sense of justice, even so late. A sense of justice, for which the presence of the German consul every year at the memorial ceremony and the deposit of a wreath on the monument of the victims cannot be regarded as sufficient. Coordinated with other martial cities, the Cordials claim compensation to be owed to them by the perpetrators of the crime. They claim it politically and legally and gain in international forums and trials. They win the coexistence and support of other victims of fascism around the world. They gain the coexistence and support of those admirable compatriots of the executioners, including Die Linke, who feel the burden of historical responsibility and will not retreat from their claims, until they definitively gain the tangible proof of the admission that history has irrevocably condemned the criminals and has vindicated their own relatives. It will be an honor for this House with the committee that will re-approve to contribute to the vindication of the Serres-now of the Municipality of Amphipolis - to contribute to the justice of the residents of all the martyr cities on the ground. So let the functioning of the committee begin as soon as possible and let it be productive and effective so that it can be truly historic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Stuboulis. The last speaker on the list is Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis and I invite him to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u233	I want the floor for a minute too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u234	I'll give you the floor immediately afterwards, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u235	Madam President, Minister, friends and friends, some of them - if we were to follow the Byzantine hours - it is an hour of play. According to one version, it means stirring, awakening, and today is historic, because it is the day of awakening the historical memory of the one who keeps the people alive in their course in the present and future. Looking often in the news releases, the face of my dear Shoeble comes in handy to my mind "The Portrait of Dorian Grey". It comes to the expression of his face the quality of the inner soul, which, the harder his behavior towards humans is as wild as the face is, becomes to the appalling. Why am I telling you this? Why, friend Costas Zourari “until this human nature or” says Thucydides. In the history of DNA of this people, time passes without changing to the slightest of behaviors and habits. I am making an assessment, to say that perhaps after a few decades of what is happening today in our country, the people who are coming will perhaps be discussing it in this House as demands for Germans' war compensation in a period of peace. Because genocide more or less has occurred in the years of German occupation, a peculiar genocide is being experienced today because marriages are not allowed, the family is not allowed to become child-bearing and, through a health system particularly'sensitive', the sufferers are coming from life in a direct period of time, and everything is synergizing with this peculiar genocide. He said yesterday that "Greek gentlemen, Mr. Tsipras, you have limited time", meaning obviously to harmonize immediately or comply with their suggestions. We say from here the Step forward that "Mr. Siomple and your company, you have expired time and not limited to complying with the checks that history itself imposes on you. You are accountable.’; The analyses of all the previous ones were absolutely indivisible. What I would like to say is that alongside legal support, along with the political firm attitude, what may give rise to a change of course in this historical injustice, which is being carried out, is the people, the society really rise - the time of the vulnerability - to demand the restoration of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much Mr Emmanuelides. Mr. Petrakos has asked for the floor, Mr. Kammenos follows us to close. Mr. Petrako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the conclusion of this debate is that the Greek people with today's Parliament and with your own initiative will continue with greater vigilance and determination to assert their rights, because we do not simply owe them to us without compromising them. Secondly, you will allow me to table a proposal with which you, as President of the Commission, will be able to cooperate with the Ministry of Education. The Intergroup Committee of Parliament must transform the historical memory of youth and especially of youth apprentices. So we need to see a serious activity towards the new generation. I would also like to make two final points, since we are saying that, with today's debate, we want the law that belongs to us. So we also need to give the right to Parliament's initiatives, because some - let me say - injustices. Some Members have unfairly and without any basis and have attacked you, but also some visions have undermined them. First of all, I would like to stress that your presence in the committee's chairman gives prestige. Furthermore, the presence of all parties with the Vice-Presidents shows that no one is excluded from the House. So it is a committee which has a high authority to claim what belongs to us. And one final thing: we must remind everyone that the Intergroup Committee, which is held on the initiative of the President of Parliament thirty-five days after the new Parliament, is to continue with the proposals, which were made as well as the committee, which was set up in the previous House with a proposal by Manolis Glezou and Alexis Tsipras. This is to give Caesar Caesar and justice to the work of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Petrakos. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u239	I'll take your time for a minute and close. On behalf of my colleague, I'm going to say something because I had it in mind. We should all together, whether the conclusions of the examination, the process or the whole investigation, which has been carried out and carried out in this group, force and force the Minister of Education to take them to school. [[Applause]] It is forbidden that children will practically not have in history the lesson of the destruction of Greece with the documented figures, which will come out of the committee, because we must not be ashamed of the truth and the blood that has been spilled. Because if we do not do so, we will have an education which will be lacking, the truth will never be learned and no one will know the truth in Europe. Because only through education will the truth be learned in Europe. And to close with this, because the Germans keep humiliating us: I was abroad last year in two cities - anyway - for jobs and when I saw the ancient coins of Greece, I said it to five colleagues and we managed to get out of e-bay of ten thousand. The Germans humiliate us when they take our ancients off into projections - the stolen ones - and sell them as if they were shoes. They consider Greek culture to be a finished, devalued and marketable product. He has never dealt with any Ministry of Culture, simply to take insurance measures to bring it down from the spectacles and put two curtains, at least not to offend Greek culture. My proposal would be - and we will also discuss it in committee and close with it - that I would like us not to be a country of e-bay historically, on a screen, but to be a country that has history and will translate it into its children with sincerity and all truth without exaggeration. But the children must learn the truth, that the Germans, yes, destroyed a country and cost us a 'euro'. And we ask. Thank you very much and apologise for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. I would point out that the process of returning truth and historical truth is a process inherent in the process of judiciary and rule of law, particularly for international crimes, the most appalling, the most awkward human beings. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal made by the President of the Parliament for the re-establishment, reconstructing and upgrading of the Parliament's Intergroup on the vindication of German debts, corrections, compensations, repayments and reimbursements of the stolen archaeological treasures, as analysed in the text distributed to all Members and sent to all parliamentary groups and developed in report. I would ask this House if it accepts this proposal, which was debated this evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u241	Madam President, I would like to say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Zurari, do you want to deviate from unanimity?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u243	I would like to make an intervention which needs to be taken into account in our collective process. In Germany, perhaps we do not know, but in the whole school system there is no mention of the disgrace they have committed in Greece. There is little and forced outside, from the Americans and from the Jewish power, only the mention of the Holocausts suffered by the Jews. There is absolutely nothing in both their primary and high school, no mention of this Greek horror. And because we have been swept back into our messengers about how we need to rewrite the story of reconciliation and shocks, we have to say to these German people that they have to write in their school books their grasp at the expense of the Greek people. There's no mention. Perhaps our committee will also have to deal with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u244	You will allow me to make a comment and to return to the vote. It says a slogan: "The story is written with disobedience". I think it is appropriate in today's debate to say that history is written with resistance and demand. But now I repeat the debate on the vote, and I ask this House: do you accept the proposal, which has been developed in the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u245	So the House unanimously accepted the proposal. Please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u246	The House has given the mandate requested. Mr Mitafidis, because we said there would also be a parliamentary announcement in relation to exactly 15 March and what it marks, and because I charged you with the task of drafting it, but I do not want to press anymore, do you want to read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u247	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u248	Here you go, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u249	The Greek Parliament pays tribute to the memory of Jewish origin and Roma Thessalonians, who seventy-two years ago, since 15 March 1943, began their uprooting and extermination in the Nazi camps of the final solution, this total crime against humanity. We welcome the course of memory from the martyrdom square to the old railway station of the city, where the trains of death departed. As part of the claim of German occupation debts, our country will claim the return of the ransom paid by the Israeli Community of Thessaloniki to the occupation troops, as well as the return of the money disbursed in support of the occupation troops from the Municipality of Thessaloniki's accounts. It requires historical justice for the victims of the Holocaust in Thessaloniki - a witness city in Thessaloniki, where the first resistance organization was founded in the occupied Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u250	I think the House unanimously accepts this wording. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-10-S1-commons.u251	With the consent of the House, 2.45' the sitting for the next Friday, March 13, 2015, at 18.00, on the subject of the special sitting of the House on oath, in accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution, of the elected President of the Republic of Prokopis Pavlopoulou.
