ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as everything is concerned, this attempt to set up the House in order to discuss the major issue of public debt and, indeed, to discuss the preliminary report of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt - this report which has already been distributed to you - is being cancelled here. This report is the result of the hard work of an international group set up in the Committee of the Parliament by decision of the President of Parliament, since April 2015. He worked hard and unhappy. He did three fullheartedly: the opening at the beginning of April with the presence of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and almost abundantly the resignation of the government. A second in May and a third in June, with the Prime Minister's presence again in which the conclusion of this committee was announced, its preliminary report, as the committee had promised to us, was made available to the House. So it's being aborted by what turns out. After all we have been waiting and waited all this time - since 18.00 - since the sitting was set - in order to achieve the quorum, it is canceled from everything that the debate on this preliminary finding shows, this preliminary report, as announced in the Agenda, by a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, taken on 23 August, but also by a prior decision of the Conference of Presidents, which we received on 25 June following a request from fifty-five Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I see, of course, many and many of these Members who signed that request here today either as members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group or as members of the People's Unit Parliamentary Group. It is, however, regrettable that the groups of Parliament are not here as a whole. It is regrettable that the outgoing resigned government is attempting to sabotage any democratic parliamentary procedure. I do not think there is a precedent where a government resigning and a President of the Republic assists the resigned government as a candidate in some capacity trying to fade, dismantle and dismantle the House. These are unconstitutional actions, anti-constitutional actions and the President of the Republic, which appear to have entered the pre-election process before it, and the other parliamentary groups and the resigned government. I would like to express my great concern at the fact that at a private television station today, advertised as the first election interview, an interview with the resigned Prime Minister. The pre-election period, as it is known, begins after the dissolution of the House and, finally, those who once fought or claimed to fight to bring democracy back to the place where it was born, with just these expressions, let them stop waging any democratic process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Lafasan, I will give you the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we all shared that intention as members of the Conference of Presidents on 25 June. I believe that all those who have tabled the request for the conclusion to be debated at the end of June also shared this intention. I consider this intention to be shared by all those and all those who, as members of the government, have attended the procedures of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt, committed and committed to participating in this process of auditing the public debt, in a substantial search for the truth, in the performance of the truth to the citizens and in the vindication of the rights of the Greek people. The Committee on the Truth of Public Debt is under the scientific guidance and address of Eric Tussen, who I do not miss the opportunity to thank him for his valuable offer, unselfish and unhelpful, as well as all the members of the Commission and Greece and abroad, who have not received any credit, with the only cover for their travel and subsistence expenses in Greece, have contributed to this important result, which is a weapon in the hands of both the Greek people and their representatives. I am very sorry that some are canceling this debate in their absence. Of course the committee, because it is precisely set up by non-parliamentary persons, will continue to function and its operation cannot be prevented. It will continue its work, having announced that the final audit will deliver in May 2016. These have been publicly announced, these commitments exist. I do not want to believe, but unfortunately I am leading to the conclusion that some want to prevent the completion of this audit as far as they go and seek and look for specific contracts, relations with corruption and bilateral contracts, but also for the role of those who entered into the loan contracts and charged in an illegal, unconstitutional and fraudulent way to the Greek people and to the next generations a debt, which is declaredly illegal, unfair, disgusting, unsustainable and unsustainable. I would also like to say from this step by step to the resigned Minister of State that these words - perhaps they are not familiar with some public factors - are not swears. They are legal designations of debt, which create and form the basis of very important claims of the Greek people. It is not, therefore, that the characterisation of the debt as a disgraceful, disgraceful, illegal, unfair and unsustainable is prey to say that "if you swear the debt, it is not small." On the other hand, they are characterisations of enormous legal importance that create obligations and obligations for those who created this debt, decommissioning obligations, but also - most importantly - the Greek people's compensation obligations for the enormous catastrophe that it has suffered to repay this debt, and they also knew the impossible of repayment and the lack of viability of the debt. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a commitment - and I see all of us in today's composition - to demand the deletion of the majority of the debt, to claim an audit of the debt, to demand a European debt conference. The fact that these commitments have been implemented in an institutional way in the House, but have not been promoted from a government perspective will be borne and accompanied by those who have ignored this conclusion. I hope that we do not see decisions on the abolition of the committee from the next composition of the House, although I do not think that it will be the impression that the groups will be represented which will allow for the abolition of the committee. In any event, the committee will continue to operate until it is abolished. And, of course, my commitment to you, as colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, but also to the Greek people, and also to the Greek people, will allow me to say - with regard to our international allies, such as the UN independent expert on debt, which has repeatedly supported the work and the conclusion of this committee, as well as many prominent people of the arts, letters, cultures, politicians, MPs - today is making a very important intervention by Miguel Urban, the European Parliamentary of the Podemos, in relation to the work of the committee - but also scientists with international intervention to create the debt as a 'white collar' crime. There are international conferences and conferences on these issues, at the same time that some have implicitly decided to resign these rights and to predict that there is no alternative. It is therefore my commitment to all of them, but also to the National Committee on Human Rights, which has been publicly placed on the grounds of catastrophic, human rights, effects of debt repayment measures, namely austerity measures, and has made special reference to the Commission's conclusion of the negotiations, and in particular on its latest pages, that the committee will continue to operate and complete all its work, at least as long as I remain in the Presidency of the Parliament until a new President or a new President of this Parliament takes office. And let them take responsibility for those who might try to abolish it. Mr Lafazani, as the only President-in-Office of Parliament, and as you have asked, I would ask you to take the floor. I also see Mr Hatzilabrou who is calling for the floor, obviously on the point of order and on the substance of the matter, unfortunately without having the opportunity to meet normally as a plenary. Here you go, Mr. Lafasan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Unfortunately, in no good circumstances, I am speaking for the first time in this House as President of the Autonomous, Single Parliamentary Group under the name of a People's Unit. The circumstances, of course, are not good, the seat is empty because the other parties are absent from this Chamber. I take the floor, let me also say, as President of a parliamentary group who has been mandated by the President of the Republic to form a government. And that is of particular importance, because obviously it clearly suggests that the House is active and has not been closed. The House operates under its Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. All work must therefore be carried out, which is imposed through the institutional functions and through the functions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Today the House had a meeting, a very critical meeting on a subject that is huge for the country and not just huge. I would say that it is the 'the issue' on which we have drowned our democracy, our economy has been affected and the Greek people have been suffering unbearable suffering for five years. Greece is a debt colony, and this is the exact terminology to reflect the current state of our country. A debt colony, which has been living under the Memorandum 'bottom' for five years and some people have agreed to a new Memorandum to do five years and I do not know how much longer this Memorandum slavery will continue. It's not worth this country being enslaved. It is not worth the Greek people being slaves. Greece is an independent, sovereign country, the Greek people are a proud people and citizens are free citizens. We cannot, therefore, live under the Memorandum 'bottoms' under the hemocolitan debt break, which means that creditors have imposed a wild guardianship. The House operates and has a very specific agenda, to discuss this debt, the finding, the report by the Preliminary Truth Committee on Debt, an in-depth and documented text, which not only deserves to be discussed, but through this debate we should put it up as a text at all ends of the world, and especially in the field of Europe, in the field of the European Union, whose ruling circles impose the extortionist memorials, with the consent, of course, of the Greek Governments, who say electoral and other things. It is shameful, therefore, that such a major issue and such a serious and thorough work and advancement, which has been done, that the House should be empty, that the parties and Members of these parties have not come. So, Madam President, we must not have this critical debate, when the House is working, when the House has to have a strong voice and send it everywhere to the ends of the earth and to Europe and highlight the major issues of democracy, the major issues that we have on the agenda today in order to tackle the major difficulties. So this is a shame and responsibility charged to the other parties and to the heads of the parties, the Heads of State, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups, is heavy. They're accountable to history for this absence. I don't know how it's possible and how they'll justify this absence. We have heard a lot, but completely unsupported, anti-institutional and anti-constitutional to support this absence. It is not possible, therefore, to have this absence and wish to go to an electoral battle, for which the subject will be precisely the debt and what we have in the name of this debt, when they do not come here to support this battle, which has been launched by a committee of Parliament, by a committee which has carried out a task to delete this debt, because we have to make the request to delete it or, at least, to delete the majority of it, because that debt is unfair. It is a deeply classic debt, a debt which the country's economic and political elites have unfortunately benefited for themselves, but this debt has not benefited the Greek people. It is a debt that is not sustainable and that the committee calls it a shameful and extremely burdensome one, and this committee therefore stresses and recommends the need to delete the largest part and the struggle towards it in all the relevant international representations, where we can support this request in a legitimate and democratic and agonist way. In addition to this, and the responsibility of the parties for their absence, I would like to raise another point which I have raised in the investigative orders to all the Presidents of the other parties, another major, serious issue for the electoral system in which the next elections are to take place. You know that I made the proposal because Parliament is open, this feudal bonus of 50 seats in the first party, which alters to cancel our democracy and, of course, distorts the will of the Greek people in the elections, because it will be unreasonable for a party that will get, say, 20% in elections by the Greek people and will be the first party, to be able with this famous bonus to form about self-government government. This is the ridicule of democracy, the ridicule of the electoral process and the will of the Greek people. I have therefore made this proposal even now that the House can convene and decide and can decide with two hundred MPs, if it is supported by more parties and of course fellow Members, that the bonus of the fifty seats should be cancelled and that the electoral system should be simply proportional and that we should proceed with this electoral system in the next elections. I have seen, however, that there is no response from all other political forces. Some have responded and it is good that they have responded, but I have seen from the side of the government party that this proposal is almost ignored. I did not understand: he forgot his programme on fundamental economic issues and problems and completely overturned it by saying that, in any case, the memorandum is necessary. Of course it's not necessary. There is an alternative in the country and, of course, this call is a pretext, but in any case I do not believe that this feudal bonus of fifty seats is included in the new memorandum commitment of the government party. I can't believe they're telling us that this bonus is in the memorandum. It could therefore well be discussed now and decided to go in the only democratic way to the elections, so that the Greek people can express themselves in a fierce and unadulterated manner. This is not the case, however, because under the responsibility of the government - mainly - but also other parties, as we see here, unfortunately the House has closed down arbitrarily, unconstitutionally and undemocraticly. For them it's closed. It is an unacceptable attitude, unacceptable behaviour, which is not only anti-parliamentary but also anti-democratic. Unfortunately, once again, democracy in our country is severely affected - I would say - and let me say that it confirms what I have said, that there has been no democracy in Greece for some time now. There's a peculiar monumental dictatorship. There is nothing in Greece beyond the law of the Memorandum. This is what defines everything and all its functions and substitutes democracy and democratic functions. But this country does not have a future. We will also give the battle from this step, while the House remains open, because this is how the hope of democracy remains. We will continue to fight through the House. We will also give the battle in the elections, since the mandates do not thrive, to give a strong signal through our presence in the new Parliament and our strong presence that the place first of all needs democracy. Because without democracy there is no future. And if we want democracy, we cannot have memos. Because memoranda and democracy are incompatible things. Either we choose the memorandum and therefore its dictatorship or democracy without a memorandum, because that is the only way to achieve democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u5	I thank you, Mr Lafazani, Mr President, and thank you for making these necessary remarks on what is the true nature of the memorandum. It is a dictatorial, authoritarian, anti-democratic framework, which "strangles" and "kills" and parliament and democracy and popular sovereignty. The most horrifying specimens of the Memorandum and the Memorandum of Independence have unfortunately been seen and lived during this period. The complete reversal of the result of the referendum, which was unambiguous and inadmissible with heat, we experienced it. We live in the full disdain for the parliamentary function, and I am sorry that those and those who have fought together to prevent this disrepute. And I'm glad we're enough. We prove that we are persistent in demanding the revival of democracy. Thank you for putting the issue of the composition of the Parliament, because at least during this period at least a major issue has arisen in relation to this monstrous bonus of fifty seats. And the issue arose when the bonus-treated party, the Parliamentary Group that received the bonus, with more than one third of its composition being made up of these fifty MPs, with whom it was increased because of the first, violated the programme with whom it claimed and took these further fifty seats. There was, therefore, a complete mistake and the parliamentary imprint of the parties' programming commitments and a huge issue, of course, in relation to Article 29 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the parties must operate democratically. Because here, in an anti-democratic way, they were broken at party level, but all the programming, lasting and time-consuming commitments were made. It would be important to have a debate on the electoral law. It would also be important to have a debate on the immigration issue. All this was proposed to the Conference of Presidents. Unfortunately, there have not even been parties who had tabled proposals in this regard. The Potami which had made a request for an early agenda debate - I take this opportunity because Mr Samoilis is here, who highlighted the need to discuss the immigration issue and the Conference of Presidents - was not present in order to support the request and make this debate. At a time when some and some are permanently hosted to private media invoked the reversal of the commitments and positions with which our fellow citizens have honoured them to be members of this House. I forgot to make two announcements. The first is that in a document by the President of the Group of the European People's Party Parliamentary Party, Mr Solana and Mr Petrakos are appointed Parliamentary Representatives of the People's Unit, who are both present. Let this be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u6	I should also like to inform you that under No 11173/7199, from 26 August 2015, a decision by the President of Parliament was reconstructed by Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the Special Standing Committee on Institutions and Transparency. This decision has been posted to the 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of this sitting, which will not, of course, take place in the absence of a quorum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u7	Finally, Mr Lafazani, I would like to thank you for this opportunity to point out what really needs to be discussed. This is that authoritative lawyers, economists, constitutionalists, debt experts with international experience, with partnership, have, in other cases, been bravely deletioned, as in the case of Ecuador, which was deleted 70% of the public debt. There a committee was set up by the President of Ecuador, in which our committee coordinator, Eric Tussen, took part. With the finding of this committee, made up of such distinguished persons, the scope is for the first time being created to claim not what we once said was deleted most of the debt, but total deletion of the debt, suspension of payments, claiming compensation on the basis of the full proof that we have led to the conclusion of the memorandum in the knowledge of creditors and in particular of the International Monetary Fund that the debt was unsustainable. So that is what some cannot deceive. Nor can anyone say that there was no alternative. And they have to give answers why they didn't activate this alternative, why they deceive it and why they create a feeling that the debt is supposedly on the table. From the memorandum passed there is no provision for any debt to be discussed. The Memorandum of Understanding was not adopted, and that is what we have to say. Appointment to Mr Tsakalotos was passed to sign the memorandum. Authorization of an anti-constitutional regime, which is in any case invalid, and therefore the signatories will also assume their responsibility. But nowhere is there a prospect of debt write-off. In the Eurogroup communication, on the contrary, there is an exclusion of any debt write-off and the resigned government has committed itself to excluding debt write-offs. The main commitments are also made to abolish democracy and parliamentary function for repayment of the debt. And the debt is being loaded, and with others, tens, billions of euros on top of 320 illegally and illegally accelerating. Mr. Hatzilaburu asked for the floor, and then Mrs. Makary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u8	Because it is one of the last sessions of this House - if not the last - in full detail, even if it has no quorum, I would like to bring to the attention of the House that when in the summer Alvarro Linera, the Vice-President of Bolivia, visited us, offered to help with the Bolivian President of the UN Committee on Debt in a committee that records and presents comments on the debt, mainly the third world, but in this case when there was the issue of Argentina, the Greek representatives voted 'white' not to - supposedly - isolate and voted for forty 'no' - Germany, America, Japan - and there were a hundred and twenty 'yes' in the deletion of Argentina's debt. And the President of the UN's debt committee, that is, the Bolivian representative, accepted to be the first to the General Assembly to bring comments on the Greek debt, because the Greek debt is a monastic, how it was formed through infinite thefts, until they were able to charge it to the Greek people themselves. Data on global debt have been released over the past few days. Greece's debt is about 0.70 of the world's debt, under the unit, that is. I also informed the President of Parliament after the visit to the Tunisian World Forum that the issue of the interparliamentary system was as follows: So, today, if he does not find the recipients of those who have signed that he will always, in good time and in all instalments, not very important, Madam President. Our historic task is to make it a weapon of a people's movement, which will not put it, but will be able to create such a prospect to go away along with the stolen ones that must return, along with the punishment of the guilty, along with those who have made fortunes from the funds, so that we can talk about an insurance system again. Along with all the demands of society, the necessary changes will put aside and debt. That must be our perspective. It is a question of whether tomorrow's sessions can be something other than prototypes, when in all ministries there will be special committees of lenders to approve bills before consultation and in their final form, when they enter for vote. Well, the only relationship which is fertile is those of Members with the popular movement, of those Members with the people, to inform, to mobilize. The prospect of the days coming will be very difficult. Easy solutions or easy overlapping ends. That means a hard work. It will not be easy if we want to get Greece out of this state of the memorials. Or we'll take her responsibility for something like that without any assignment. It can't be commissioned. This is done with the involvement of the people themselves, with conscience, with other struggling peoples in the world, so that they can put aside this whole grid that brings wealth to 1% and huge poverty. If our political mediation does not help it, people do not need it. If he does not help his organization, he does not help his struggle, people do not need it. In the election, what do they want to do? To put the world that voted by 62%, 63% 'no', to vote on who will manage a memorandum. To change his vote to that. What do we want? We want that backwards. The People's Movement, the People's Factor, put its seal everywhere. She shouldn't accept that. The youth who was fooled by voting by 85% 'no', to see that there is a matter, that this feeling, that of her mood, must be made more fertile and that it is not only by voting but is becoming struggling. We've got a lot of work ahead of us. It takes inspiration, it needs freshness, but above all it needs democracy in our own moves. It is our fundamental ally and the way we exist and the way we create it. It's what fights the memorials at the base and elsewhere. In any case, I say that - perhaps this is the last sitting of Parliament tomorrow - I do not feel bad that those who have signed up to give all their doses, all our doses. They have signed for us, for the poorness of society they have signed. I don't feel bad that he's not here at another hypocrisy show where we'd read them out. The conclusion is a tool for those who want to change the situation in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u9	Mr Hatzilabrou, thank you for your intervention and for reminding us that, alongside the work of the Committee on Truth, some and some - and we were not few - we were doing our job to promote this request, which is popular and palliative and is a fair request, to waive the debt. In fact, when Alvarro Garcia Linnera, the Vice-President of Bolivia, came in, was exactly the day after the conclusion of the Committee on Truth, Public Debt, it was on 19 June - there was also a big event at which he spoke and indeed at this meeting, at which you were present - he made a commitment - that the UN committee on debt, which Bolivia holds the presidency, is at the service of Greece. I have to say that this committee is to hand over its findings at the end of 2015 and proposals have been made to the Government in relation to the actions that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has to take - the resigned - in relation to the actions they have to take. They had the findings of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt, and had the opportunity and the obligation to activate Greece's representation in this committee. I will have the opportunity next week to have the Interparliamentary Conference of Presidents around the world at the UN headquarters to present this and officially to this UN committee. However, as you rightly pointed out, this is a matter that has been employing the United Nations since September 2014, one of the most modern, most innovative issues and issues opened up by the UN at the request of Argentina. And I would like to remind you that the President and Vice-President of the Argentine's respective Audit Committee, who came to Greece guests of the House and of the work of the committee, told us that it was Argentina's mistake that did not carry out a debt audit from the outset and welcomed the creation of our committee after the creation of which the Argentine committee also created. I would therefore like to say that this is an open field, and in the international forums it is being examined with great interest. It is not a closed matter for anyone to deceive it either unreported or alienated. At some point it must be said that a claim which can lead to the release of the Greek people from this larvae has been discredited. By the way, before I give the floor to Mrs Makrei, who has asked for the floor, I would also like to say that it was touching and that the support received by the creation of this committee at world level, by ordinary citizens who signed a declaration of support for her work around the world. Citizens have translated a call for initiative in sixteen languages, people from all the lengths and backs of the world have protested their support and very important personalities, such as Ken Lows, Costas Gabras, Noam Chomsky, Anda Colau, the new Mayor of Barcelona, Etienne Balibar, Tarik Ali, publicly declared their support for this committee. And as you quite rightly pointed out, in the context of social movements, at the World Social Forum held in Tunisia last March, the issue of debt write-offs was the central concern of the Commission's work and we were also represented by the Tunisian Parliament, then by the Member of Parliament, Mr Fati Chumki. Well, well, you say that this is a matter for the citizens, the people, the movements, the people, who must take this finding and make it his property, his weapon, his tool. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. They are an honour for the Greek Parliament, because they demonstrate that we are free Parliament, a parliament of a free country and not a colony, as provided for in the memorandums signed, where legislation will be controlled by all sorts of troikas. The outcome of this Committee of Truth for Debt is economically strong, legally sound and politically useful, if there is political will and not tradition. I would like to thank you, too, in public, and all those who have contributed to this result, because you have made the commitment of all of us to investigate public debt and you have proved, beyond all doubt, that those of us who are honouring our word to the people, against the citizens who trusted us, are right, as this international accounting committee, in essence, has shown that Greece is not only in a position to pay the debt but, above all, that it must not pay, because the debt caused by the arrangements imposed by the troika directly violates the fundamental democratic rights of Greek citizens. The Committee also demonstrated that the viability of the Greek public debt was from the outset, manifestly known to creditors, Greek authorities and systemic media. Nevertheless, the Greek authorities, together with some governments of the European Union, conspired in 2010 against the restructuring of the public debt in order to protect systemic banks. The systemic media concealed the truth from the citizens, pretending that the rescue concerned Greece and not the banks at the same time, proving a narrative aimed at showing the Greek population as supposedly worthy of creditors' wrongdoing. Therefore, the conclusion of the Debt Truth Committee shows that Greece must not pay this debt because it is illegal, unfair and disgraceful. So, then, we are here to perpetuate all those missing today and, in particular, regrettably, those of the parliamentary group with whom they were first elected MP in 2012 - were those who first in Greece mentioned the issue of the deletion of a burdensome and shameful debt. Of course - as my dear colleague Mr Hatzilabrou said earlier - I do not care if he was here. Why, it is proud now in Greek society that what they said and violated them and didn't believe them. So, to the persuasiveness of all those who want to present this committee as a simple committee of no importance, we will tell them that we, these 'barbarbarians', these so-called drachmas - in order to have a distorted picture - will fight together with the Greek citizens until the final right, which will be the deletion of the burdensome and shameful debt. And, as the President of Ecuador, Rafael Correa, said - when I met him in Ecuador on a visit with a mission from Parliament as a member of the World Parliamentary Union - the first is the people and then the lenders. So all of us who have left will fight until the final vindication of a Greece of dignity, a Greece of democracy, for the restoration of democracy in our country. And - you know - we will do this with the people this time, honoring his grand 'no', the 'no' he said against the memorial policies that led to the impoverishment of Greek society and total poverty. Thank you once again. You have been a sign of a brilliant presence for the Greek Parliament. I think history will record it with gold letters, unlike some who sold home, sold the order of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. Mr. Gerdelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. I would not ask for it, but it went through my mind: If I remember correctly, Law 3126/2003 on the responsibility of ministers in Article 3(2) states that, after two parliamentary periods, any criminal offences and responsibilities of the previous governments, if no accusation has been made, shall be dropped. I know, therefore, that there are several dossiers available to Parliament concerning criminal matters. I would therefore like it to be investigated from your side, for the next time you are President, which of these penal cases of Ministers, which are essentially about the governments of Papandreou and Papademos - because we are talking about - are in danger of being registered with the declaration of elections. One is that. Secondly, Parliament's current image does not look forward to democracy. It reminds me of the words Paul Valerie, a poet and an intellectual, that politics is the art that prevents people from dealing with what they are concerned with. It seems that the Presidents of the parties absent from this art extended it to their own MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-08-26-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gerdelis. And I would like to point out the following: it has been recorded and denounced by the party with which we were all elected MPs in Genaris - so I can say this because the people present in this area are exhausted - that the provision of Article 86 of the Constitution, which in fact provides for the privileged treatment of governmental persons and a short deadline for the elimination of expulsion, is scandalous, in reality, which is set until the end of the second regular session of the next parliamentary term. In this regard, our parliamentary term had only one regular session and therefore it cannot be claimed that the offences committed by the Samara Government are being dropped. I do not doubt, of course, that there will be such claims, as some have attempted to make such claims in the Lagard list case, in order to remove the responsibilities not only of Mr Papaconstantinou, who has investigated his responsibilities but also of Mr Venizelos, who has not investigated his responsibilities. In any case, I would say: For offences committed and relating to economic crimes against the country with a duration of economic life, economic crimes with a character and a lasting action, economic crimes which are both of a two-tier nature and which are directed against the civilisation, for these crimes, given that the systematic and organised blockade of the House has been recorded by the House since its examination and investigation, my view, which I have expressed since the previous period, but also a view which is recorded in many texts and by SYRIZA, which I think we can now see that there is not, since some have decided to break it down and 'kill it', in any case, my view is that there are legal and legal considerations that allow and allow the investigation of these offences. In particular, with regard to the memoranda, it is - I think - an inevitable conclusion that there they cannot claim to enjoy immunity from those who are also involved in making the country subject to the memorandum and the implementation of the memorandum. I would, however, like, Mr Gerdelis, since you gave me the opportunity to note my regret for this: on 3 August the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the House met with one of the three topics to plan the creation of a special committee of this Parliament, which will process the proceedings which have been sent to Parliament, in accordance with the law on the liability of ministers. For all these years these documents were transmitted and were not examined by anyone. They went into a drawer and no one was getting any news. On 3 August, therefore, there was a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and as President of the Commission in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - the Rules of Procedure which have drawn up other parliamentary majorities - I recommended the creation of such a committee. On 5 August 2015, at the press conference I gave to make an account, as the political persons and institutional actors should always do, i.e. publicly provide the account of their work, in the first half of the year, so in my term as President of the Parliament, precisely in supplementing it - on 6 February I was elected and on 5 August I gave the press conference - I announced the creation of this committee. On 20 August 2015, the House is suddenly dissolving, that is to say, its dissolution process is taking place, but also prevents any sitting, even those meetings that we decided on at the Conference of Presidents. Today's sitting we decided on 25 June and yesterday's sitting on German debts we decided on 7 May. There are therefore no discussions, even on matters which were either shared or widely accepted, which prevents the meeting of each committee of Parliament, the meeting of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency on the 'SIEMENS' scandal - which some people have spoken about - and ultimately prevented the creation of this committee. I therefore express the conviction - and not just the suspicion - that among the reasons for this accelerated, violent, unconstitutional and anti-democratic dissolution of the House is the desire not to complete the work of the committees set up, the Commission for the vindication of German debts, which would have submitted its findings on 30 September, of the Committee on Truth, Public Debts, which would have submitted its complete and complete findings in May 2016, of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency of the House, which had begun to examine the 'SIEMENS' scandal and had also recovered the scandal of the Lagard List, and of course, in order not to create this committee for the processing of criminal documents against government persons still being transmitted to Parliament. I think they've all been announced. We don't have any loose ends. I am also assured by the Director-General for Parliamentary Work that they have all been announced, but they will obviously have to be processed from the next House. I do not want to comment, of course, on the Committee of Inquiry set up to investigate the circumstances and the responsibilities which led to the country being placed on the memorandum, on the Memorandum and on any other relevant issue. I would remind you that the deadline for submitting the findings of that Committee was 15 October 2015. I would also remind you that the chairman of the committee took up government duties, and so this committee has not met again since, and with the political developments which followed, and in particular, the stormy period of July, which prevented any other parliamentary procedure that had been initiated. However, it is important in this attempt to conclude a meeting, which is not complete but cancelled, to record that there was this commitment and that the process like many others has been initiated. Is there a lady or a fellow Member who would like to speak? Nobody. Therefore, given that we find that there is no quorum, I will declare the end of the attempted meeting, after saying that those who are present and those who are present and those who are present, and those who are politically and politically, honour the confidence of the citizens, do the highest democratic duty for all of us, which is to defend our country, democracy, the Constitution against any attempt at violent catastrophic destruction. As President of the House - and I would like this to be registered as my last sentence in this attempt to hold a meeting for the Committee on Truth, Public Debate - I understand and experience the extreme manifestation of violence against the Constitution this blackmailing attack on the parliamentary function, this violent catastrophe of parliamentary procedures, this violent attack on people's human rights, this violent abolition of acquired and inspired freedoms, rights and values, for which - and I look at Mr Kotsia, because I remember a touching intervention with historical reference - people of all ages gave battles, gave their lives, gave their health, lost their lives, sacrificed, not betrayed, bewildered, betrayed, surrendered, surrendered or surrendered. As President of Parliament, I refused to hand over the seal of the House to the lenders. And I'll be proud of it. As parliamentarians, you refused to hand over the parliamentary function to the blackmailers. And be proud of it. These struggles are historically justified, and those who eventually have the most valuable property to carry and the most invaluable legacy to hand over to their children, their grandchildren, to the next generations. And because democracy, independence, freedom, human rights are loan and addressable, it is the legacy that we will hand over to the next, I think we have to fight so that no one trivializes what others have inherited us, and even these, for which many living and living fellow humans have given us historic struggles, have resisted and honored democracy and resistance. You will also allow me to say this, as the last word of this chair here: they have honoured the Left. No meeting shall be adjourned. End time 21.25 ́.
