ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: In accordance with Parliament's approval of 4 October 2015, the minutes of its 3rd meeting, Sunday 4 October 2015, with regard to election 1, 2, III Vice-Presidents, two Quaestors and four Secretaries from Communism, Election IV Vice-President, a Quaestor and a Secretary from the Quaestors' Anti-Policy and Election F Vice-President from the third to a Force Parliamentary Group of Anti-Population and the Z' Vice-President from the fourth to a Force of Parliamentary Group of Anti-Population.]] Before entering the special agenda of the Plenary Session, with the sole object of today's meeting, I should like to tell you that the draft state budget for 2016 was tabled. I shall read to you the letter from Mr Tsakalotou: ‘I present to you the draft State Budget for 2016, in accordance with Article 79(3) of the Constitution and Article 121(2), (3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, and I would ask that it be introduced to the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss this matter. The preliminary draft is attached to an electronic format and to a printing". The draft will also be published in the legislation, so that it will be in your knowledge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, two updates I would like to make from boobs because they are the beginning of the Session and so that we know a few things. The first concerns the question of committees. You saw that here it says that the draft state budget should be introduced into the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs. Where are these committees? They are the Standing Committees. So I will say that by Wednesday night, if possible, we have sent circulars and so on, but we will see it, or in any case within the week, we must have made the divisions, namely, how many MPs, women and men, will be in every committee. The parties should send the lists. It must be done, if possible, by the end of the Wednesday sitting, namely at a meeting and say that these are the committees. Tolerantly, if we do not have time on Wednesday when there is a meeting, we will see how we will be as legitimate as possible, i.e. by posting "GENERAL" etc. But by Wednesday night we should have it, so we can be absolutely fine. On Monday, the committees will be convened - obviously this afternoon, because there are colleagues from the region - the Bureau will be elected, so that the Conference of Presidents, in full composition, and the committees - in this case economic affairs, etc. will be able to meet from Tuesday morning. We all know there's gonna be a lot of work. That's the one briefing. Perhaps it has already been done to you by the Secretaries of your parties, but I am doing it directly from here. I would also ask those of the Members who have not given the special forms to the financial services of the House, who will prepare for payroll, to give them quickly - until tomorrow, if possible - so that a special date and leave may be obtained from the General Accounting Office, that is, before the end of the month, earlier on on on payroll. These are some actions that need to be taken, and that is why I am talking about step by step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering SPECIFIC FOLLOWING THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY THE BULLETIN The only object of today's meeting is to read out the government's Schedule Declarations. Tonight, the President of the Government, Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, will develop the Programming Declarations and then resolve the meeting tomorrow, October 6, 2015, at 11.00 a.m. There is a number of procedural issues. I think, however, that since we are ready to begin the procedure, the procedural issues, for which we are ready, we must leave them for a moment then, i.e. after the Prime Minister's reading of the Programming Declarations. We will therefore inform you immediately then what the further procedure will be like. Either way, for today there is nothing else to be predicted but we will be informed about tomorrow and the day after tomorrow: hours, the way in which the speeches are to take place, the time, etc. We must not waste time on this now because we have also had a delay. I would very much ask Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to take the floor to develop the government's Programmatic Declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the restoration of economic stability, the recovery of the economy and the return to growth, the substantial reduction of public debt, the radical reform of public administration, while at the same time combating corruption and bureaucracy, are the direct objectives of our Government, whose implementation is the only safe way out of the multi-annual committee and the memorandums. We are taking over the country's governance, in order to work hard, tighten the teeth, overcome the difficulties, and at the end of the four-year period we have created the necessary conditions for a new Greece, a Greece that will have left behind the crisis and the monuments, a Greece that will have definitively been rid of the creditors' committee, will have returned to growth, but a development with social importance, a Greece that can keep young people alive and advance here in our homeland, a Greece that has restored its international prestige and will again be a strong and equitable partner in the United Europe, a Greece that will play a leading role in international developments as a pillar of stability and security in a world of constant crisis. And this objective, this vision despite difficulties, is a possible goal, it is visionary that we can achieve it in this parliamentary term. This House - let you bear in mind - will be the one to seal the final exit of the crisis during its four-year term. I think, of course, - like all of you - that this road will not be easy. The new period in which the country entered after the negotiation, after the agreement and the elections, will be a difficult but at the same time it will also be a hopeful political period, a political period full of challenges for the Greek economy, for the Greek society and of course for the political system. The Greek people in their verdict gave us a mandate of stability, a strong mandate for a government of four years after the difficult period of negotiation. Within this four-year period we have the clear mandate, in addition to the implementation of the agreed mandate, to escape an hour before the suffering of the committee, to begin a long course of incisions, rituals and reforms in order to change Greece radically, to restore injustices, to erupt rooted perceptions in the state and society, to mobilise the large social majority in a direction of democratic and productive regeneration of our country after the previous destructive five-year period. The first steps in this direction, of course, have already been taken since the previous period, the hard period, the period of negotiation and have been reflected in the new agreement with the lenders. Because, although this agreement undoubtedly contains difficult points, it also at the same time writes the resistance of the Greek people and the Greek Government. At the same time, he writes another perception of the path that the Greek economy must take to get out of the recession and the vicious circle of overcompensation. At this new stage we are therefore determined to continue in the same direction of serving the interests of the large social majority with different priorities. Today we have managed to secure a relatively stable financial and financial framework by 2019. We have managed to ensure the economic stability of the country and to close the debate on Grexit definitively. With these successes as a reserve, we can no longer have another goal than to use this stability to move forward with the radical changes and reforms that the country and the Greek people need. Because for us stability does not mean stagnation, it does not mean reproduction of established powers. It is another sign that we are seeking to give the concept of stability. We want stability to ensure the conditions for achieving the major progressive and radical sectors needed by the place. And that's exactly what we're determined to do. We know, of course, that in this effort, a strong opposition will be the oligarchic regime, the forces of economic and state power responsible for the country's current state of affairs, the powers of the old and bankrupt regime that will do everything so that nothing will change in this place. With these forces, we are determined to clash and conflict. We will conflict hard with a sense of the great responsibility we take, the responsibility to restore social justice and the dignity of the Greek people, to work for a society of equality and prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, the new agreement with lenders undoubtedly sets a more favourable financial framework with reduced targets for surpluses in the next three years, ensuring a financial space of at least EUR 20 billion in relation to what we had to respect under the previous agreements, thus giving a breath and a margin for using resources for development. But it is very important, when we talk about growth, that we clarify what we are talking about, what development we are talking about. Is it the same development that we are working on, that is, the progressive forces in Europe are working on as the Civic Opposition in our country, as is the other Conservative forces in Europe? Do we mean the same thing? We don't mean the same thing. Our goal is to pave the way for a new economic productive model that reverses the course of developments over the last decades and especially over the last five years. Our goal is to move a path different from the one proposed by the conservative circles of the Greek and European elite. The main coordinates of the neoliberal plan for managing the crisis, which in Greece found its most extreme implementation, were to support and accelerate the spontaneous movement of the economy when in crisis. The aim of this project was to reduce competitiveness by reducing wages, deregulation of the labour market, i.e. liquidation and closure of small and medium-sized enterprises and, essentially, a sale of public property, in order to create the conditions for a new cycle of high profitability accumulation for enterprises. This neoliberal plan, as expected, has led to major economic turbulence but, above all, to major social injustices, expanding inequalities and immersing the desperation of large parts of Greek society. And, as expected, this plan has failed miserably. It crumbled the economy by nearly 25% of GDP. It has dismantled unemployment and caused a chain of social reactions. For smaller incomes and high unemployment mean reducing demand, reducing tax burden, collapse of insurance funds and creating an army of debtors in the public and private sectors that cannot meet their obligations. In the face of the failed neoliberal recipe, which wants to base economic growth on social ruins, we are proposing another model that puts social cohesion, people and the needs of many above the profits of the few. We recommend that policy be put on the wheel to alleviate the consequences of the spontaneous disastrous movement of the economy and to lay the foundations for a new economic and productive model, a new economic and productive model based on strengthening and protecting wages and work, while redistributing tax burdens, so as to support active demand and, on the other hand, to strengthen technology, innovation, exploiting the high quality of human resources of our country and the profound change in the procedures of the public administration, so as to support the competitiveness and the extroversion of the Greek economy. This is the only way to create a sustainable social and investment environment, to attract private investment, but without at the same time condemning wage layers of long-term poverty and exhaustion. And, in our view, a road is possible. But it is not a road without obstacles. It's not an easy-to-pass road. In order to be able to take the first steps and start the effort of the major changes, confidence in the Greek economy must be ensured. And trust means settled public finances and a strong credit system to restore the liquidity of the economy, both through the recovery of access to borrowing markets, but also through the private financing of productive and development investments. The implementation of these objectives requires a strategic plan and concerted action. The implementation of the agreement is necessary, but it is not capable of doing so alone. It takes a grid of parallel actions with a time horizon until the first half of 2017, that is, in the next twenty months. The aim is until then to restore liquidity and to regain access to the markets so that we can safely plan the productive reconstruction and the gradual restoration of social cohesion, having invested in a gradual, but stable growth trend in the Greek economy. To achieve this, we have to move forward without delay on the first evaluation of the programme, although we know that the programme contains difficult and sometimes - let us not hide it - and aggravating measures. However, we also know that the successful completion of the first assessment is the key that will open the door to the necessary write-down of debt and the recapitalisation of banks, fully guaranteeing deposits, but at the same time, at the same time, redeeming the credit system from the so-called red, i.e. non-performing, loans. The successful outcome of these two critical procedures, which are provided for in the agreement, namely the decision on debt relief and the recapitalisation of banks by the end of the year, is perhaps the most critical case for the recovery principle. To the extent, of course, we will have the desired results, the first half of next year, in the first half of 2016, will be the six months of the return of the economy to positive growth. From that point on, we will have the conditions to move forward with the necessary reforms that will create an environment that is attractive to private investment in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy, which will in turn restore the confidence of the markets, which will mean that the country will be able to come out of the committee and lending regime. All this, of course - and here it is the big bet - is protecting the already fragile social cohesion, protecting and restoring employment relations, protecting the natural environment, which is an invaluable wealth of our country, protecting public wealth in the sense of not divestment, but of exploiting public property. For the implementation of this roadmap with a view, as I said, in the next twenty months, we have after the rapid and successful completion of the first assessment of three immediate priorities: debt write-down, bank recapitalisation and the creation of a favourable environment for attracting foreign private investment. Let me say a few words about these priorities. Debt write-down is a crucial issue, as we have ensured that our financial needs are met in the short-term. However, the profile of Greek debt after 2022 does not yet inspire investment trust and thus undermine the potential for attracting strategic investors in our country. The Greek side will come to this debate with a specific strategy, with concrete and clear proposals. We will propose in particular the extension of payments, the reduction of interest rates and their conversion to constant interest rates. We will propose the development clause but also a long period of grace so that we can create enough financial space and support investment activity and the reconstruction of the social state. Since the outcome of this negotiation, the Greek economy will be judged to a large extent to return rapidly to satisfactory growth rates and thus to cover the lost territory of the last five years. The same applies to the second major front, however, to the recapitalisation of the banking system. The new agreement provides for funds of up to EUR 25 billion to support the domestic banking system, to restore the confidence of depositors and strengthen liquidity in the real economy. It is now a given fact that this will perhaps also be the last opportunity to reorganise the Greek banks, as the previous recapitalisations have failed miserably and allow me here to assess mainly political and not economic. The previous recapitalisations, on the one hand, did not address the problem of red loans, which is the main destabilising factor of the system, while at the same time the Greek state with decisions of the then government maintained the same administrations that had led the Greek banks to the edge of the cliff. So we have all experienced a global originality, the Greek state buying the banks, but leaving their administration to the previous shareholders. This is another incident that demonstrates the deep interlocutory and political dependence of economic oligarchy in our country. We therefore pledge that this negative world originality this time will not be repeated. The banks that will need recapitalisation with the Greek State's money will also have the corresponding management. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] The period of dependencies, the period of interlocutory and customer arrangements has ended definitively and it is good that we all know that. The third big bet is that of attraction, as I said before, private investment, in order to mobilise the lake-like potential of the Greek economy. Comprehensive governmental planning is required, as well as active investment attraction policies, the preparation of complex and realistic investment proposals, as well as economic and investment diplomacy initiatives by mobilising governmental and service actors. In this context we intend to establish a special attraction for investment, which will be responsible for the creation, development and development of investment projects, the establishment of the necessary institutional framework for the development of an investment strategy, the creation and protection of Greek brands, the strengthening of new businesses, newly-born businesses. For large and complex investments this public body - not the investor - will be responsible for the submission of studies and the issuing of necessary, necessary permits. The procedure will proceed either by means of a Presidential Decree or by direct ratification by the House of the terms of the Convention and, in any case, the responsibility for decision and control will be held by the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u5	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u6	In addition, the entity will proceed to forecast the infrastructure-related investment projects. It will supervise and speed up the dispute resolution procedures with the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of an agreement is not disputed, but it is important that we all know that there are still a number of points in the agreement, for which the applicable policy has not been concluded. On these very points we are determined to fight hard with design and counter-proposals so that we can maintain the ground we have gained in the negotiation and the final result is to be for the benefit of the social forces that we represent. In particular, we have four major battles ahead of us. Firstly, the fight to regulate the so-called red loans, in which we seek to ensure the protection of the first residence for those who prove to be unable to pay, and at the same time to prevent the possibility of buying loans from the so-called 'distress funds'. Our main tools in this effort will be an intermediary, which will intercede between the creditors and debtors involved, in order to resolve the debt out-of-court, speed up the procedures under the Katseli Act, the adoption, with concrete changes, of the Code of Conduct of Banks and, finally, the implementation of the law on overdue small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, we have the great and key battle for the reform of the labour market. Our main objective here is to restore the institution of collective bargaining, but also to restore other protectionist arrangements for wage earners, which have been abolished over the past five years, such as three years and re-energy. At the same time, we remain firm about the gradual increase in minimum wages and the elimination of discrimination on the labour market, which separate young workers by providing for less wages, but also limited insurance rights. The third major battle we have before us is that of maintaining public energy, PPC and the PPC and IPTO networks. For our part, we must immediately move forward in the coming period to present an alternative realistic plan, which will ensure the opening up of the labour market, in accordance with European rules, but without jeopardising the public nature of the electricity networks. Fourthly, we have before us the critical test for the creation and operation of the new fund for the exploitation of public property, which must ensure the exploitation of and not the disposal of public assets. In the context of the negotiations on the operation of the fund, issues relating to compulsory privatisation must be cleared up and, at the same time, the conditions must be ensured to ensure that the public property is used primarily to serve the public interest, with impeccable procedures and without any suspicion of customer service by the candidate investors, as has unfortunately occurred in the past years of the operation of the HICP. In all these open negotiating fields - which I would remind you have remained open because of the fact that fighting has been fought negotiating - it is extremely crucial that we do not lose ground and not return to unscrupulous policies of extremist neoliberal choices. And that, not because it is wrong and unfair, but because it will lead us again to a deadlock, vicious circle, from which the Greek economy must finally come out. That is why it is necessary for these fronts to have the broadest possible consensus of the progressive forces of the country, the political and social forces which do not agree, to not agree with the neoliberal so-called one-ways, these one-ways which led us to this deep crisis. And I am sure that, as in Europe, in the European field, which, beyond the People's Party - the European Right, the party in which the New Democracy is involved - is currently creating wider anti-neoliberal alliances, there will be the possibility of wide-ranging consensus and joint actions, progressive and anti-neoliberal forces, social and political, in order to protect the public and social interest, with a view to widening the gaps that we have opened, gaining ground in the negotiation of the previous seven months. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware that the new agreement, despite its positive aspects, contains many difficult points. After all, we have fought hard for one by one, but as you all know - everyone knows - the perseverance of lenders was not possible everywhere. We are all aware that some changes in the tax system, such as an increase in VAT rates in specific sectors of the economy, such as tax reforms for farmers, are causing problems. The same applies to changes in pensions, which were necessary, especially as regards early retirement, but which at the same time create overturns in life planning and expectations. For each of these difficult points, we will do everything we can to find antidotes or to alleviate the possible negative consequences. But I would particularly like to mention the issue of value added tax in private education, which is currently one of social and journalistic interest. The Government will immediately suspend this measure, at least until the budget is adopted in mid-November, so that they will be equivalent in the medium term. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And if you have equivalents to suggesting, we are open to hear your suggestions. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] But it is - let me get away from the text of reading the Programming Declarations - at least you who campaigned for 'yes' and propagandaed 'yes' in everything, move the finger and criticise us for fighting and expanding the field of negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u7	You should be ashamed of yourself. The equivalents, didn't you hear them in the pre-elections we told you about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u8	We tabled them in an election and in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u9	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u10	I hope, Mr President, that I will have the pleasure of speaking with you for a long time and that you will be the one to ask me, to discuss and to table equivalent measures in order to jointly defend the public interest, to work together for the good of this place and to defend the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u11	You're nervous about that. You're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u12	I see there are objections! But it is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that the case-by-case approach is not enough. What is necessary to tackle the economic difficulties of the social classes and layers which have been brutally hit by the crisis is the preparation and implementation of a national strategic plan for returning to development with a social, environmentally friendly project specialising in each individual area of policy. At this very point, let me refer to the main lines of this plan. Before and above every sectoral specific policy, the recovery of the Greek economy depends on the creation of the appropriate framework for economic activity. This is mainly defined by the tax system and the terms of financing, both investment and households. As far as the tax system is concerned, it is well known that the Greek state, under the responsibility of the previous governments, but also under the responsibility of creditors who in recent years have demanded permanent contributions to taxation, without plan and perspective, and with sole care for the short-term increase in receipts in conditions of recession, has one of the most prosperous, dysfunctional and inefficient tax systems in Europe. The term'system' for this labyrinth of incomplete and circumstantial provisions, exemptions, exemptions, presumptions provided for in hundreds of different laws and ministerial decisions is already an euphemism. It is therefore a primary priority for this government to implement a large and radical fiscal reform, creating a system of simple, stable and fair. It will probably be the best service we have to offer in the case of the creation of a favourable investment environment, but also to alleviate the well-known underwed wages and pensioners who have so far almost completely borne the burden of this crisis. The second big bet before us is to be able to unlock the endless potential of the living forces of Greek society, restore the flow of funding to the real economy, traditionally exploiting and alternative financial instruments. The stabilisation of the credit system is, of course, central, but it is both crucial to the absorption of the ESRB programmes and to the creation of new financial schemes. As far as the ESDP is concerned, our aim is not to lose a single euro from the 2007-2013 programme as much as from the new 2014-2020 programme. Since the previous period, the necessary steps have already been taken to restore the flow of payments and to reorientate the programmes so that innovative start-ups can benefit primarily from innovative start-ups as well as new unemployed scientists, social economy enterprises and firms operating in areas where the country has competitive advantages. At the same time, the new development law at the stage of integration has the orientation of moving from a low competitiveness economy to an economy of high technological specialisation, innovation and high added value, by promoting and strengthening existing productive structures, as well as attracting foreign investments. On the basis of this new institutional and financial framework, which will be assisted by the establishment of the new public development bank, we will be able to promote the sectoral policies necessary to strengthen tourism and shipping, infrastructure and transport, agricultural production, energy and industry, which can be the key pillars of the country's productive reconstruction. It is precisely from our policy that these individual areas are to be judged on our ability to build a new economic model, a new economic model, which will exploit all the competitive advantages of the country, gradually change its development profile and transform it into a productive, processive, energy, transit and tourist hub. I imagine that the relevant ministers will be able to develop government planning in each sector for the next two days. You will, however, allow me to make a brief specific reference here to the need for support for agricultural production and farmers, which was one of the points of conflict during the negotiations. The main priorities on which we are going to move to alleviate the possible negative effects of the implementation of the agreement are, firstly, the use of total resources of about EUR 20 billion in the period 2015-2021, while creating and maintaining more than fifty thousand jobs in the agricultural sector, secondly, the redefining of the concept of 'farmer by main occupation', with the aim of different tax treatment and the real determination of the incomes of farmers, through the keeping of revenue and expenditure books. In this process, there will be a substantial benefit for both farmers from the offsetting of input-out VAT, but also for the State as a result of the increase in VAT collection. In any case, our aim is through the open dialogue with the rural world, as well as the partners, to address the real problems of the Greek countryside, with the main aim of strengthening the competitiveness of Greek production, but above all of strengthening the incomes of small and medium-sized farmers. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the new productive and economic model is the long and long-term objective for the coming years, then public administration is the tool to achieve this. And here it is clear that our country has been behind decades. After the seven-month experience of governance, we also had the opportunity to see, in practice, the great pathogens, which largely keep the country established and act as a brake, preventing the major growth leap forward. There is no doubt - and there is something I think we will all agree on - that public administration is the great patient, whose situation has, but, over the last five years, deteriorated with horizontal cuts, mass pensions, the lack of any organisational planning, extensive small and large corruption, institutional chaos, overlapping of competences, dazzling procedures, bureaucracy, lack of any organisational planning in the area of digital policy. So, before us, we have a huge bet, the deep reform of public administration, so that it can perform its organisational and developmental role. We want a public administration of democratic, transparent, inconsistent, technologically modernised, replicate and, at the end of the day, socially rewarding, alongside the citizen. We know, of course, that we are putting the coil very high. We know that all this is easy to say, but it is very difficult to implement, as the implementation of every reform measure in public administration requires conflicts with established cultures, with deep customer structures and small and large-powered networks, conflicts with rooted self-practice practices. But we're not allowed to close our eyes and walk to the pedestrian. We will pursue radical, democratic reform and I believe that we will achieve it. As far as the structures of the public administration are concerned, we have been committed from the previous parliamentary term to undertake the difficult task of rationalising the organiza­tions of the ministries and the evaluation of supervised bodies in order to record their aims and to reorient their action. As far as the procedures are concerned, we are committed to continuing the interventions to reduce bureaucratic burdens and administrative burdens on citizens and businesses. The aim is to simplify the licensing procedures for new enterprises, to extend the services offered by electronic JEPs, while our guiding principle is to reduce civil and administrative personal contact, so that the risk of developing so-called ‘small corruption’ is drastically reduced. Finally, we move on to a series of interventions concerning the public administration itself, which has been unjustly grasped and marginalised as a whole, within the framework of a propaganda to legitimise austerity measures. Obviously there are exceptions, but we cannot adopt them as a rule. It is not the staff of the public administration responsible for the crisis, but a whole political and economic establishment that has built, raised up and tolerated - let me speak - this institutional disability and malfunction. So, with our basic principle of respect for and recognition of the role of civil servants, we are moving directly towards the adoption of a new institutional assessment framework, but also to a new, modern and effective Disciplinary Law, which will be governed by the principles of leniency and accuracy. We also move on to the establishment of a National Register for Public Administration officials with very high educational and administrative skills. By September 2016 at the latest, we will be ready for the performance of the public sector and legal persons to be managed by the tank of the new National Register. We also proceed directly to the establishment of a dynamic and flexible internal mobility system in the public sector. Last but not least, the area of intervention in the public administration, which affects horizontally the whole of the structures, functions and procedures of the state machine, is that of digital policy. The absence of a coherent plan in this field, the result of interdependent interests and dependencies, has led to the dismantling of public money and the fragmentation of the Community's resources so much needed by the Greek society, especially in the years of the crisis. Within a shell of responsibilities, policies and strategies, digital technologies, totalled about EUR 7 billion, but with little results, and about EUR 1 billion today cannot be disbursed by the NRP. Our aim is a single, targeted and social digital policy. That is why we intend to draw up and implement a single National Strategic Plan for Digital Development, Electronic Governance and the National Broadband Plan. Our aim is to free 1 billion euros from Community resources for technology, information and communication projects, with the aim of strengthening and coordinating e-government actions, extending and completing broadband telecommunications networks and introducing Greece into the single European digital market with the most favourable conditions for the Greek producer, entrepreneurs and citizens. Finally, we are drawing up a three-year action plan for the radical improvement of e-government services from public to citizens, aiming, as a minimum, at the European Union's average in the respective indicators of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the issues of the agreement, in addition to the public debt and the recapitalisation of banks, in addition to the national strategic plan to return to the development and democratic reform of public administration, there are also a number of key areas where our government aspires to leave a stigma, a trace of indelible, radical and progressive. The aim is to leave the mark of another perception, expressing the interests of the many, the expectations and the anguish of the tenants, the small and medium-sized, the retired, the unemployed, the Greek youth. The government aspires to give a new breath, putting an end to the multi-faceted crisis, which is not only economic, but at the same time is a moral and political crisis, a crisis of institutions and a crisis of values. This is a situation that we have a historic duty and responsibility to reverse, to support and to strengthen institutions that guarantee social cohesion, while at the same time restoring the hurt feeling of the law of the Greek society. I would therefore like to stand and stress our commitment, despite the difficulties we have before us, to support the social state in all its aspects. This is a top priority, as it is also a aspect of our policy that differentiates us vertically from the neoliberal forces, which all over the past years have chosen the social state as the primary victim of austerity policies and cuts. We have already demonstrated from the previous parliamentary term that we are aiming to follow a different path. The first law, moreover, that we passed in the previous period of governance, was the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis, which is working hand-in-hand for our next interventions as well. With our experience and knowledge, for the first time, we are drawing up the Pan-Hellenic Charter of Poverty, and we are moving towards targeted actions. For the next time they are scheduled: The issue of travel cards for disabled persons, for multiples, for third parties, for unemployed persons, for under-retired persons over sixty-five years. Activating health cards for uninsured persons. School meals for primary school students. Direct legislation on markets without intermediaries, on the disposal of products which can be safely consumed by large food-trafficking chains in solidarity structures. A great strategic goal, however, which we want to complete within the four-year horizon, is to establish for the first time a National Social Solidarity System, similar to the ESS, but for social protection, a modern, anthropocentric system, with autonomy and public control. She also intends to be one of the most important legacy left by our Government to those most in need, our fellow citizens who are alone in the crisis. In the health sector, however, our strategic goal is to build a public and free system of equal access and universal coverage, with high quality services and controlled costs. In this context, we commit ourselves to uninterrupted and equitable access to effective, qualitative and safe medicines for the Greek citizen. Particular attention is paid to actions and policies that promote basic and clinical research in the field of medicine. We move on to the necessary steps to cover our uninsured fellow citizens, to ensure equal and universal access to all public health services. We are speeding up and completing the recruitment procedures for all the skills currently pending. It is about a thousand hundred intakes of health within 2015, while about two and a half thousand new posts of doctors, nurses and other health professionals will be launched in the next period. We are also opening the EEA contracts to young doctors in order to combat unemployment and the fleeing of scientists abroad. We directly assess all hospital administrations and replace those judged to be ineffective. Because I would like to remind you that they have been entrusted with the '4-3-1' system with the systems, namely, the prefecture of power according to customer and micro-party interests. Let's not forget that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u13	Don't shoot Kammen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u15	"4-2-1" was it? I was wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u16	‘4-2-1’. Good. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u17	The major and flagrant aim, however, in the health sector is to create a new model in primary care, a new model, which will be the key pillar for the new health services system. The model will be based on neighbourhood health units and will be the basis of a new and functional public quality service system that promotes equal access and universal coverage. Accordingly, we aim to be also our intervention in the issues of education and research. Here it is the primary need to upgrade what we call'research culture', to support institutional and economic research and to use it, in general, as an excellent human scientific resource. At the same time, we intend to leave the trace of modern progressive governance with an ambitious reform of primary and secondary education, which will face pathogens and the chronic dysfunctions of the Greek educational system. We are aware that dealing with the problems, as well as the steady progress towards a democratic school, requires the recognition of the social work of teachers. In our immediate priorities, therefore, it is the development of a system of valuation and also the promotion of the work of schools and teachers. The priority is, however, the immediate launch of a large and participatory social dialogue in order to establish a social consensus, because major changes in education require a social consensus, not a universal agreement - the opinions have a good ideological effect, but major changes require a climate of dialogue, preparation and consensus from society - in order to move forward with a modern system of special education and education support for all children with disabilities. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To move forward to a modern framework of vocational education and training, a newly formed legal framework for Greek-language education abroad, a new map of higher education and research so that universities, technological and research institutions, take back the leading role they deserve in the economic reconstruction of the country. In this context, the arrangements contained in the already published draft law of the Ministry of Education on higher education will also be discussed. However, it is also an integral pillar of what we call the'social state' which concerns strengthening work, combating unemployment and supporting social security. As far as unemployment is concerned, much has been done, as we have already planned and will be implementing new employment programmes in the next six months for a total of 100 000 unemployed. From March 2016 until the end of the year, our design provides for the integration of an additional hundred and fifty thousand unemployed into employment programs. Our strategic planning for four years includes, among other things, specific employment programmes for areas with the highest unemployment rates, a specific programme to tackle the unemployment of young scientists, economic and institutional support for social economy initiatives, which can be the uterus of a production system that will challenge the dominant economic production structures for exchange and profit. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to make a special reference to the challenges, but also to the serious problems that we have to face in the insurance and pension systems of the country, challenges which have existed and still exist independently, I would say, from the agreement, that either the country had an agreement or did not have an agreement. On the one hand we have internal injustices, privileges and complexity, which is why we are moving towards rationalisation and integration of the insurance funds, and that is why we are abolishing early retirement. On the other hand - and we must be honest - we have a serious problem of sustainability. The roots of this problem are the unacceptablely high unemployment of recent years, the uninsured and uninsured work that reaches 25%, the negative demographic data, but also the rugged and looted reserves of the funds left behind by the previous governments, both with the known scandal and gambling on the Stock Exchange, but also with the disastrous PSI, which the insurance funds have paid for. On the basis of this data, our insurance system is now unable to balance and be refined, no matter how much cuts are made. In the first two memoranda 14 billion euros were cut on an annual basis. Have we solved any problems? Did the results ultimately be exactly the opposite of what they were proclaiming as being pursued, by stepping up the recession, increasing unemployment, and by reducing the contributions in the end? In other words, reducing the income and resources of the insurance system. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of insurance is not that it costs much, but that it lacks revenue and receipts. What needs to be done is to increase the resources input into the insurance system. That is our start, and that is why we strongly resisted, we did not accept the immediate abolition of the EASA, the immediate application of the zero deficit clause that the partners were asking for, and, unfortunately, the opposition parties were also calling on us to adopt. With a tough negotiation we managed to maintain the EASA by 2020 and to seek equivalent measures so that supplementary pensions are not rapidly reduced. Instead of new cuts and the race downwards, we choose to reform the insurance system as a whole, protecting the level of benefits. We are going to a system with a reinforced redistributive character, with social and transgenic justice, by applying uniform rules to the public and private sectors. A system that guarantees decent pensions to my own generation and to the next of my own generation, because that is the objective. How can this be done? By guaranteeing new resources, by combating undeclared and uninsured work, by making use of the movable and immovable property of the social security institutions, by fully interconnecting the information systems of the insurance funds and the JEPs, with one-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stage stations - they are called - for insurance and work in all regions of the country, by targeting the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts, which do not pay, through the use of the relevant list of insurance funds to increase their revenue. These measures will only be part of a long and long effort to reform and restore the viability of the insurance system. I would say that this is a national effort, and in this national effort we want and we want all the political forces to play a constructive role and contribute creatively with proposals, not with exodus. Because the attempt to create a sustainable social security system is not about the government. It goes beyond this government and beyond the next governments. It is about the future itself and the prospect of Greek society. It's about the next generations. Ladies and gentlemen, however, no reform of the public administration and of the country's economic model cannot stand by allowing the unacceptable reproduction and perpetuation of the system of corruption, interoperable and extensive tax evasion. There is no big section unless the confidence of Greek citizens in the institutions and in the functioning of justice is restored. I am well aware that in this area it is preferable to do too much to proclaim, but it is undeniable that in recent months Greek citizens feel that something has changed. It is now a day-to-day issue on the Greek government's agenda to try to break the established power relationships, cover up economic scandals, combat tax evasion, but also criminal practices that have flourished over the last decades on the high floors of Greek society and have reaped over the last five years with the tolerance of political leaderships. The commitment of this government is that this struggle will continue with irreversible tension so that this country can finally clean up the practices and perceptions that have turned it into a Western world's proverb. In this context, efforts will continue to complete the cross-checks of deposits and tax declarations already initiated by the IMO. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] All tax evasion lists should be thoroughly checked, especially the Lagard list, for which Greek justice now seems to have new elements. To smuggle tobacco and spirits. To change the institutional framework for the award of public contracts, but also to check all contracts for which there are suspicions of illegality. To complete the process - at last in this place - the licensing of broadcasting media and frequencies. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Support Greek justice in any open investigation into corruption and tax evasion cases. Strengthen all public administration control bodies. To complete the process of clearance in Greek football, as well as all the financial checks in sports federations, which have been pending for more than a decade. To clarify the operating framework of the Greek banking system and to clarify all open affairs from the Agricultural Bank to the Post Bank. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Greek citizens must be sure that not only will we retreat in this fight, but we will give all our forces to finally take the country out of this dawn of corruption, of interactivity, of economic crime, because I believe that this is not worthy of any Greek and no Greek. The Greek citizens can be assured that we will give the fight with all our powers to finally restore the sense of fairness in this place and finally drown fresh air. That is what the Greek people are asking for, that is the great lasting demand in the years of the crisis and we will do it! [[Applause from SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let me at this point change my page and remind you that, beyond the struggle to restore economic normality, the struggle to return to economic growth and support the Greek state are today facing and with a great challenge, the challenge of managing a major crisis within the crisis, which is also a challenge for the whole of Europe. We have to manage a huge refugee crisis, which brings to the surface the major political conflicts that divide Europe from one side to another, but also each country separately. In the face of the logic of the fortresses, walls and fences, against the logic of turning European borders into a battlefield, we firmly believe that we must work hard, to prove that humanity, solidarity, hospitality are not utopias of some romantics, but are and remain the dominant values of the European construction and can be made political act. Already our previous government has done a great deal, while at the recent summit, in cooperation with Italy, which is facing the same acute problem with us, we have achieved a major first victory: the immediate activation of the relocation programme for an additional hundred thousand refugees. In this direction we intend to continue, so that we can meet one of the greatest challenges of modern European history, without giving in to the racist and far-right screams that are growing around us. Key challenges at this stage of the crisis are the creation of the five hot spots on the islands, so that we can absorb the scheduled regular funds, it is the unification of the structures of the Ministry of the Interior that have competences related to immigration and, of course, the ongoing negotiation with our partners and the European Union institutions to achieve the deepening of European solidarity with the necessary revision of the Dublin III Regulation. On the occasion of this, however, the refugee issue, I would like to remind you that Greece is at the heart of a wider agitated and destabilised region and that is why it must be a pillar of stability, peace and security. In the context of a multi-dimensional and active internal policy, then, we must take initiatives to promote solutions to the regional and international problems of our region, to ensure a peaceful end to multiple conflicts, and to resolve all open issues of defence and security in all international law. This is, moreover, the most effective way to further upgrade the country's role, both in the geopolitical and economic environment of the wider region. I have already talked about a crisis of people's confidence in institutions, about a moral crisis, about an ideological crisis, but also about a crisis of values that constantly fuels notions intolerance - do not look for the cause of the rise of powers representing extreme right-wing views in society and in the political system - but I have also spoken about this crisis that fuels national folding practices, isolationism, choices of departure and idiosyncraticism that deprive civil society and remove citizens from political participation. However, we cannot be concerned about this. It can only be the aim of this government to overthrow this state of affairs, and this may be the most difficult task that we have before us. In any case, however, we are well aware that without the mobilisation of citizens, without the political confrontation, without the collapsing and blocking of the government, from the movements of citizens and from the social movements, without the democratic involvement of the citizens, no major change, no break with the old - as we call it - and a bankrupt political system is not possible. We know very well that trying to radically change the Greek society is a new relationship, a new alliance with the people. With a people, however, who will not be a passive viewer, but will take into account the great conflict, the great conflicts, the ruptures with what we call'settled, economic and political, what we call 'economic oligarchy', with what we call 'the networks of political power'. It is for this very reason that I want the Step forward to commit that during this four-year period we will open up all the major issues: to strengthen democratic freedoms in the country, to protect individual and collective rights. For the adoption of democratic participation institutions, both in decision-making and in the control of state power. The necessary and necessary change of electoral law with a broader consensus. For the establishment of the popular veto, but also the possibility of holding referendums at the initiative of the citizens, for a genuine representation of the Greek people in the decision-making centres. It is for this very reason that I undertake today that a great social and political dialogue will immediately be opened to change the constitution, so that the next House will be Revisionary and this review will emerge not through the small-scale political system, but through the more extensive involvement of the forces, which have been mobilised over the last few years and have taken part in political and social confrontation. This may also be the most important deposit of this government, because we want to continue to be the government of these forces that have sent us here and do not forget that. The desire and perseverance of the people's strata for major changes, for the change of this political establishment, has sent us this insistence and desire of the populace that has also been shown in this election campaign. We represent them and I want to do so, because at the end of the day we want to account only to those who have sent us here and not to the economic powers and the oligarchy of this country. We account for the people and only for the Greek people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is our ambition to return, if you want, the power of those who give it to us, to return the power to where it belongs, to enable the active people's forces to take the initiative for the major reforms, for the major sectors, for the necessary changes in this place. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] This is our ambition, perhaps this is our most important, final commitment to the National Representation, but also to the Greek people for the next four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we will take some time to reach an agreement on how the debate on the government's programming declarations will take place. The debate will take place in accordance with Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with the appropriate application of Rule 96(2) and 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, and cannot be extended more than three days from the beginning. The vote on the proposal of confidence shall take place as soon as the debate on the Programming Declarations is closed and no later than the 12th night of the third day following the start of the debate, in this case Wednesday, 7 October 2015, i.e. tomorrow night. The vote on the proposals of confidence is always nominal. The Ministers and the Ministers of State, if they are members of the House, are also voting against it. The Government enjoys Parliament's confidence if the proposal of confidence is approved by an absolute majority of Members present, but it may not be less than 2/5 of the total number of Members. You remember that, 120. In the next two days, the Chief of Officerial Representation and the Chairmans of the Parliamentary Groups may speak. Parliamentary representatives, the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the Secretarys of State and, of course, the Members who wish to do so may also speak. At this point I would like to tell you that I would very much ask the Ministerial Council and the Secretariat of the Ministerial Council to reach the best possible agreement, so that the ministers can state the government's Programmatic Declarations and in consultation with Deputys and with the State Secretarys that the maximum economy of time is available for Members to explain their views. Tomorrow we begin at 11 a.m. till 0.00 a.m. without a break and a day after tomorrow. I would suggest that tomorrow's sitting begins with a circle of eight speakers, which will include one Member from each of the groups, since in this composition the House has eight parties for the first time, so that there will be a first and equal representation of all the groups. If the parties wish - and this depends on each parliamentary group - they may submit a list of speakers, as provided for in Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that the speakers and speakers who will be given a list by the parties will precede those who will be registered with the electronic system. Colleagues who wish to take part in the debate and their name are not included in the lists given by their parties, I propose that they should be entered with the electronic system from the start of tomorrow's sitting and by the end of the speech of the eighth speaker, namely until the first cycle is over, in order to give time to those who want to be registered and spoken. A single list of speakers will then be drawn up containing Members registered and registered with the electronic system and Members given a list of their parties as a priority. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Now here's what the speakers will be like. Each speaker will be composed of 12 Members who will be alternated. We expect them to be about ten, at least, such circles. In particular, each cycle will consist of eleven Members of the first five parliamentary groups, five of the SYRIZA, three of the New Democracy, one of the Golden Dawn, one of the Democratic Association, one of the JRC and successively every three cycles will enter and one of the River, from the Independent Greeks and from the Central Association. That is to say, of the five parties I mentioned in each circle, there will be at least one of the three parties that have the least Members of Parliament every three cycles. In other words, it will also be able to speak of all the parties that have up to ten Members. It's understood. But it is not going to happen like other times that parties with the fewest MPs finally spoke, and at the end of the day they were also happy, there were some sixty left from the first party and a few forty from the second one talking after each other. With this arrangement, which followed the experience of many such debates, the participation of all parties throughout the two-day period will also be of interest and will be of interest to all those who will speak. It is noted that each cycle will respect the principle of the rotation of the Members of the Co-population with the Members of the Opposition. Each speaker proposes to take the floor for six minutes and not for seven minutes as it was and then become five, four, three, two, one at the expense of the latter. It will be six minutes to be observed or, in any case, to go up - get down or close the speech of each speaker will be able to go up to seven minutes by tolerance, without the right of second language, so that they can speak as much as possible of the Members registered. I would remind you that in the case of parliamentary practice, when the Minister intervenes, it is customary not to be followed by a Member of the Co-population, so in any case there will also be a similar adjustment of the list, which will be made on the ground. It can't be predicted beforehand. As regards the speaking times of the representatives of the government, I would suggest that the ministers speak for up to 15 minutes, not eighteen minutes, until now, the Deputy Ministers for twelve minutes instead of the fifteen who were the Secretarys for eight instead of ten minutes. I would also ask you to prepare the relevant speeches and speeches so that there will not be the'shock' which will then cause the problems. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, in particular: 20 minutes for the Prime Minister and Chief of Staff and 15 minutes for the Presidents of the remaining six Parliamentary Groups with tolerance in time. That's a fact. But you remember some tolerances for all of us that reached us in twice and three times. It would be good to avoid always in favour of the economy and the substance of the debate. I would also remind you that the Prime Minister, the Political Heads, the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys can take the floor whenever they want to do so briefly in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, if it is to clarify a matter. In addition, the Government Secretariat and the relevant departments are already gathering the list of Ministers, Deputys, etc. so that as far as possible the opposition parties will also know, in order to have a position after a Minister who is developing his topic. We've always asked whatever location we were. We're all gonna try to do this the best. Finally, for the Members of Parliament, they will become a special circle, their own, but since there are at least four Members of Parliament, i.e., coarse tomorrow afternoon. They are entitled to speak as three times, especially for twelve minutes of the hour in their protology, six in their dentex and three minutes in their tritology or to unify these intervals. I would like to point out that under Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure, if they receive the floor after the Presidents of their parliamentary groups, they will be reduced to half, that is, six minutes for the seconds and three for the teratology. However, because most of the parties' leaders are expected to speak before the parliamentary representatives and in order not to limit the parliamentary representatives, I would suggest that we do not accept this restriction and speak in the normal time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure, so that there is no stress. Often they also change their speeches if the President speaks earlier. It's not a good thing. We can improve them. Otherwise, the parties' presidents, if they want to go beyond the speech that they want, either in reverse order, will have on Wednesday night, to speak, and tomorrow, they will notify the services. They have every right to do so, provided it is in the knowledge of all. And the Prime Minister would like to be able to attend some of these talks. I would ask this House very much, if there is no strong objection, to agree to the overall proposal so that we can proceed with the procedures. Whatever it takes on the ground to improve it, we'll do it during. Does this House accept the overall proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. I would ask the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups until tomorrow, an hour before the start of the debate, to contact the relevant departments to give the lists of those who are precedented by those who will enter the specific circles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept at this point whether we can resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-05-S1-commons.u20	With the consent of the House at 21:38 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 6 October 2015 at 11: 00, on the subject of the House's work: "Approach on the government's Programmatic Declarations".
