ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I intended to start the sitting, but you are very few, twenty Members. We shall therefore be adjourned in order to be a quorum in the Chamber because the legislative work is under way and the procedure to be followed has to be decided. In fact, it does not honour Parliament to start the process with so few Members of Parliament and we should properly launch what needs to be launched. We are interrupting for 15 minutes and I hope that the ladies and gentlemen will come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. Before entering the agenda, I would like to remind the House that as today, fifty-two years ago, on 27 May 1963, the Member of the ESA, the Balkans and the rapporteur of medicine, Gregory Lambrakis, murdered by the forces of the para-state, has left his last breath, after a tricycle attack by the para-state killers Spyros Kotzmanien and Emmanuel Emmanoulidis. I suggest that the House observe a minute of silence in its memory and thus honour its struggles for democracy and peace. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] [[Applause]] From the honour in history to welcome the future, the thirty-five students and their two attendants from the 17th Municipal School of Nice. We're being watched and waited so long for us to start. We welcome them to the plenary. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are also being followed by twenty - three students and students and two teachers attending from the 26th Chalkida Municipal School. We welcome you, too. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before entering the agenda and after the quorum has been completed in plenary, I would like to make some announcements to you. On 22 May 2015, the Minister of National Defence, Finance and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law entitled ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on the supply of defence material’. Furthermore, the Ministers of National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Economic, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism submitted a draft law on 22 May 2015 entitled ‘Repeal the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of Bulgaria on cooperation within the Polynational Coordination Centre for Maritime Transport of Athens (POSETHAM - AMSC) and the technical arrangement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on the cooperation within the Polyethnic Centre for the Development of the Greek Republic of Athens (CMSC)’. It is a little good with the titles of the bills to make a better processing. I also have an announcement to inform you that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to the House on May 12, 2015, a criminal case-file formed following the report of Mr. Andreas Theophilis on the former Ministers for Health, etc. Maki Voridis, Spyridon - Adoni Georgiadis and Mario Salma, on the adoption of ministerial decisions and circulars on retroactive drug revaluation. This case-file was forwarded in accordance with Articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure and 1 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice. Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 on the Criminal Responsibility of the Ministers, as applicable. Also, under the same procedure, for the "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers" as provided for in Rule 86 of the Constitution and in Rule 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House and in Article 1 and (4) of the Rules of Procedure. 3126/2003, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded on 21 May 2015 a criminal case-file set up following the 8 November 2013 report of the public limited company called “Spanish Anonymous Industrial and Commercial Food Society”, concerning the former Minister for Rural Development and Food, Athanasio Tsautaris, on the allegedly committed offence of the duty violation – pursuant to Articles 13a and 259 of the Criminal Code – on actions or omissions of the body implementing the Community programme of 2013 “Free distribution of rice” to the most deprived persons in the country. Also, I am announcing the newsletter on Thursday 28 May 2015 at 09.30 p.m. They are scheduled to discuss the following: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 240/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Simorelis, Minister for Health and Finance, on the planned payments for drug expenditure. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 225/18-5-2015 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras, Minister of Finance and National Defence, on the infrastructure of the School of Positive Sciences of the University of Thessaly. 3. The Question No 218/14-5-2015 by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the degradation and devaluation of the institution of the National Guard. 4. The Question No 215/13-5-2015 by MP B' Thessaloniki of the River Mr.Akaterini Markos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the future of the programme "The Harmonization of Family and Occupational Life" and the structures of children's protection of the municipalities. 5. The question by No 247/19-5-2015 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the time of payment of the one-off aid to the hotel staff. 6. The Question No 213/12-5-2015 by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs concerning measures to protect the health of the students at the Tower of Ilias because of the accumulation of garbage in the region. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 220/15-5-2015 topical question by MP Dodecanese of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance about the announcement of a change of VAT on the islands. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 239/19-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on contributions to the Free Professional Insurance Organisation. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Finance about the deprivation of fourteen regional airports in the country. 3. The 235/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Finance on borrowing from the International Monetary Fund, the debt haircut and the possible participation of Greece in the Bank of BRICS countries. 4. The 236/19-5-2015 topical question by MP 2 Athens of Potamio (Hari) Theocharis to the Minister of Finance concerning the extension of the deadline for the application of Article 15 of the Law. 4321/2015 on the one-off repayment of part of the debt with a discount. 5. The 248/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister of Health, about the problems at the General Hospital of Ierapetra, Crete. 6. The Question No 214/12-5-2015 by MEP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity concerning the exemption from insurance to the OAU of dependent workers and their insurance to the IKA - EDF. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 197/8-5-2015 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs about the new Sparta Museum. 8. Under number 106/20-4-2015, a topical question by MP Drama of the River Mr Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of National Defence on reports from the manufacturer of the company (LOCKHEED MARTIN) to rebuild the old-fashioned P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals of ‘AIRBUS’. The following three reports will also be discussed (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure): 1. The question asked by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christou Smia to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity about the incubation in the IKA of the increase received by pensioners due to family weight. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Health about the problems in the functioning of the Centre for Health of Ithaca. 3. The question under number 701/45/11-3-2015 was asked and application submitted by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diakrias to the Minister of Finance concerning the inventory and disclosure of rented real estate of the public and measures to limit the cost of buildings leased. The question mark will normally be announced, it will not be announced in an economic way, so that the citizens know what is being discussed and what is being discussed. I would ask the channel of the House to put forward, before the start of the sitting, a list of questions to be debated, so that the citizens can be informed even more effectively. I must tell you that the system we have implemented in parliamentary control with the distribution by Ministry was really very efficient and we seem to have a lot more questions that are now being discussed and are not being cancelled. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: ‘Publication of payment order for claims by an administrative contract concluded in the context of a commercial transaction’. It's a draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights. We thank the Minister who patiently waited until the quorum was gathered. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 21-5-2015, on the draft law in two meetings, one on the principle and one on the articles. The Committee’s report was announced by the relevant Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice on 21 May 2015. I would remind the House, when entering the debate at first, that the debate is referred solely to the purpose and content of the bill, in accordance with Rule 95(1) of the Rules of Procedure, it begins with the development of the draft by the relevant Minister and then the rapporteurs, the special speakers and finally the Members who have been included in the list of speakers in the debate, without prejudice to Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I don't have to repeat it, you've learned it from the outside. The list of speakers is drawn up from the start of the debate and the end of the speech of the first two rapporteurs. The Members of the House shall be entitled to a second reading if they so request by the end of the debate, as provided for in Rule 96(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The pleas in law, in principle, are governed by Rules 64, 97 and 98 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure in a similar manner. We will give the floor to the Minister for eighteen minutes. The rapporteurs and the special speakers will then have the floor for 15 minutes on their prototypes. The list will start at the beginning of the speech by Mr. Minister and will be completed at the end of the speech by the first two rapporteurs, Mr. Thanasis Skouma from SYRIZA and Mr. Charalambos Athanasios from New Democracy. The rest of the special speakers are Despina Sveronis - Chondronassios from Golden Dawn, Christina Tachiaou from Potami, Athanasios Vardalis from the KKE, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis from the Independent Greeks and Mr George Arvanitides from PASOK. Parliamentary Representatives have been appointed by Ms.Olga Gerovasilis from SYRIZA, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis from New Democracy, Mr. Christos Papapas from Golden Dawn, Mr. Charis Theocharis from Potami, Mr. Thanasis Pafilis from the KKE, Mr. Nikos Mavraganis from the Independent Greeks and Mr. Yiannis Koutsoukos from PASOK. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories there are seventeen students and students attending the meeting and two teachers from the 2nd Haidari Municipal School, who participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Mr. Nikos Paradopoulos, has the floor for his suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill entered in the House for discussion is trying to respond to the interests and needs of both formal, institutional and substantive. The general essential need is in particular to speed up and rationalise the procedure in administrative courts on the specific subject referred to in the title of the draft law. With regard to the institutional reason for its introduction, I have to say that the bill comes into implementation of a European obligation, arising from Regulation 805/2004 and from a 2011 directive on combating late payments in commercial transactions. The Directive in question has been transposed into national law by Mr von Wogau. Date of birth: 4152/2013. This is a regulation which, as a whole, incorporates the directive as designed by an article. The second article will be followed by an amendment to which I shall refer next and perhaps the third article on the entry into force of the law will perhaps be followed. The only article on the directive is analysed in several articles of the Code of Administrative Procedure. The draft law concerns all commercial transactions under public law and therefore includes any type of public contract, project study, public works, supply of goods, provision of services, provided that one party is the public, the LAGs and the legal entities governed by public law. From the debate in the committee I am aware that there has been a doubt about the public works being subject to this procedure, because they are not explicitly mentioned. I think it is clear to subject these projects to the general wording that exists. The general wording of the contracts which have commercial content and which are part of the public sector, and the other organisations, is that we are trying to maintain the wording of the directive, where this does not create any problems. In any case, because this is what this is all about, I would not object to an express statement, if this House considers it necessary. The proposed regulation is much shorter than the current regulation, since the payment order will be issued no later than 90 days, and the common procedure is, of course, longer. Of course, in the event that opposition and suspension will obviously be applied against the payment order, there will also be a procedure for the award of the opposition, so the time will be extended, but of course it will obviously not reach the total duration of the period of the ordinary procedure in the event of legal proceedings being brought there. The draft law relates to claims against the State by the reasons set out above, from the scope mentioned above, which it is not necessary to define the nature of the non-disputed requirement explicitly in the law because it is laid down in the Directive in detail. I can tell you, however, that the requirement is not called into question when the debtor has explicitly recognised it either through acceptance or through a compromise he has accepted, if he has never objected to it, although there have been procedural, judicial procedures, if he has not been present, he has not been represented in the procedure relating to the claim for a hearing, although he had initially objected, and those cases in which the debtor has explicitly recognised the requirement in a public document. Finally, as a clarification of the terminology, I should like to say that the prudential review, which is referred to in the regulations, is the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors in so far as the requirement falls under its control, as well as the financial control services or, where appropriate, a department responsible for the clearance of expenditure and the issue of a payment order. For the articles, I will tell you the main contents of each. The first Article, which is amended, defines the conditions for issuing a payment order, i.e. the non-disputing nature of the claim. The second Article defines the physical and local jurisdiction for issuing a payment order. I must point out here that the responsibility for issuing a payment order was the subject which perhaps more of all concerned the work of the committee. In its original form, the bill proposed responsibility of the administrative judiciary. The objections which have been raised in committee have, in my opinion, been well founded and thus, in the end, in a legislative improvement - correction, which I shall mention later on in more detail, now has responsibility for moving to the administrative courts. The reason for this change is that the administrative appeals of course have experience of assessing similar cases. I think that the ability to discuss such cases would also have been borne by the administrative prototypes, but it is a burden that today the number of cases before the administrative courts is much lighter than that of the administrative prototypes. Of course, the fact that the relevant courts will be somewhat less creates a problem of movement, which, with other legal corrections, I think is being dealt with, provides for the possibility of lodging the applications in question in the first instance and for extending the time-limits for performance, so I think that any problem is covered. I must say that it responds to the majority of those who discussed the matter or have submitted their opinions here or their recommendations during the discussions in the committee. Article 272C provides that the signature of the application is to be settled and that the relevant court is to be ordered to pay. And here I must tell you that, following comments made during the debate in the committee, it is advisable that the mark should be paid on the 30th day following the submission of the application, so that the time for carrying out the preventive control has ended and that the applicant should not be charged with paying the badge if the preventive control is not finally fruitful. The next Article also provides that an order shall be issued as soon as possible within sixty days of the attestation that the application is to be carried out or the expiry of the three-day period for preventive control and that the total duration of ninety days for the discussion of the application is to be determined. It is, of course, identified by the next article and the content of the payment order, and the possibility for the General Commissioner of State to issue a stereotype document on payment order, which will greatly facilitate the procedure, procedure and parties. The next article stipulates the applicant's obligation to order the counterparty to pay the payment order within 30 days, and, of course, if the public body is a public body, this service must be done to both the State and the Minister of Finance. The following two Articles 272G and 272G stipulate that the order for payment is, of course, an enforceable title, but the execution is automatically suspended during the time limit for the purpose of the opposition, whereas, following that exercise, the opposing party, i.e. a public, a local authority or a legal person governed by public law, may request the suspension by the applicable Article of the Code of Administrative Procedure of the execution of the order of payment until the final decision on the opposition has been adopted. In a subsequent article, the issues of the more specific provisions in force in the proceedings and the main proceedings for the issue of the payment order, as well as the limits of control and the own-initiative control of certain matters arising, such as jurisdiction, limitation, and provided for the performance of the opposition and the application for suspension, shall be dealt with. The final article stipulates that the omission of the person liable to challenge the alleged opposition within 30 days, or any express resignation from the opposition brought before the undertaking of the procedural act in question is likely to result, therefore, in the order of payment being no longer admissible. As I said before, some additions and legislative improvements are introduced to the draft law, which emerged from the debate that preceded the committee. In Article 272b, the words ‘the single administrative court’ shall be replaced by ‘the single administrative appeal’, which is now defined as competent. It is also laid down in the first subparagraph of Article 272c(1) that the application is to be lodged - it is to be facilitated, which compensates for the limitation of the competent courts - it may also be made at the Registry of any of the administrative courts which are in the region of the competent administrative court. In the latter case, the Registry of the Court of First Instance shall forward it within eight days. An eight-day period was initially laid down to facilitate the parties. It was not necessary for the opposition to be lodged at the Court of First Instance rather than at the Court of First Instance on the ground that such a statement would be made by the public or by legal entities governed by public law or by municipalities which are able to be represented at the courts of the Member States easily and, in any event, more easily than by the other parties. Paragraph 4 of Article 272c shall be re-drawn: ‘The application shall be accompanied by the corresponding judicial notice, which shall be lodged with a penalty of inadmissibility and on the 30th day following the notification of the Contracting Parties’ application. Initially, it was stated that the paradox should be filed, the judiciary should be filed with the lodging of the claim. The amendment shall ensure that the party does not pay that amount by losing it in the event where preventive control would indicate that the conditions for issuing the order for payment are not met. Also, in Article 272Z we have a deletion of a small phrase, simply because it is self-evident, it has no fundamental significance. In paragraph 3 of Article 272H we have a recast. A time limit shall be set for the hearing of the opposition to facilitate and ensure the speed of the proceedings and in another way it shall be laid down that the opposition shall be discussed in a case which shall not be more than six months from its submission. Otherwise, the generally provided for in the Administrative Procedure shall apply. Regarding a last addition, legislative improvement, which has been submitted. It concerns paragraph 5 of Article 272C, which is recast. It is now laid down that the copy of the application shall be communicated to the counterparty within eight days instead of the five initially provided by diligence of the applicant, who must further provide the relevant evidence of service without delay to the Registrar of the Court of Justice. The counterparty shall also present to the court secretariat within 30 days of notification of the request a certificate of the service responsible for clearing and issuing the payment order in respect of completion or not for the result of the prudential review. I have heard the thought here that it might be a good thing to clarify the result of preventive control, where it is foreseen - because there are cases where this is not required - and I have no objection to both of these words being added. Therefore, the corresponding correction will come and it will be announced by my side at an appropriate time during this procedure. Of course, it is defined what will happen if the time limit referred to in the preceding subparagraph has elapsed or if within the time limit it is stated that the preventive control of the claim continues. This clarification emerged from the doubt that the questionable presumption that the requirement is not disputed will arise not only at the end of the month but also in the event that during the month the competent Court of Auditors will confirm that this monitoring activity is continuing and is needed even more time. We would therefore like to expressly state that, if it does not end, whether it is shown in silence after the expiry or in a document which states that the proceedings will continue, the presumption will, however, enter into force, which is combatable and may, in any event, be called into question during the opposition which will follow. Finally, I have tabled some amendments in advance to the draft law on payment order. I will only insist on two regulations, which deal with issues that are constantly being dealt with, and therefore there is a reason for speed. On the contrary, I will not insist on the vote in the next amendment, which can be introduced shortly and quickly again with a proposal from the Ministry of Justice in a next bill as a timely one. The two amendments, which are introduced, try to alleviate the administrative courts of Athens and Piraeus - central - by creating powers of regional courts, which are both reasonable and serve the public. I think it is random loopholes in the law that are being filled and covered here. The first provides that, on transfer by an institution of any authority of the right to sign a signature, jurisdiction is to be determined on the basis of the region of the institution which is signatory to it. The second presupposes that in the case of disputes created by fines imposed by Law. It is for the national court to determine, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 5 of Regulation (EEC) No 2556/1997, whether the undertaking operates or is active at the expense of which the employer or the fine is imposed respectively has jurisdiction irrespective of the seat of the institution issuing the act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u4	We thank the Minister for his impeccable respect of time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Thanasis Skoumas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law, introduced by the Ministry of Justice, essentially comes to cover a legislative gap and a delay in the possibility of issuing an enforceable title directly and quickly in the form of a payment order, in order to satisfy the parties who have entered into administrative contracts obviously with regard to public and legal persons governed by public law. I would like to mention that the draft law was welcomed by the overwhelming majority of the parties during the procedure in the committee responsible. Under paragraph (g) of Article 1 of the Law. 4152/2013 national legislation has been adapted to Directive 74/2001 of the European Union, the European Parliament and of the Council on combating late payment in commercial transactions, adopted with a view to addressing late payment in commercial transactions, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and thereby to enhance the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. In fact, paragraph 1 of subparagraph g.10 of the Directive stipulates that actions or applications before a court or other competent authority concerning non-disputing claims which fall within the scope of that paragraph shall be tried exceptionally irrespective of the amount of the debt as soon as possible. The enforceable title on such actions or applications shall be issued in 90 days following its deposit. This period shall not include the time limits for document service notifications or delays for which the creditor is responsible. Those provisions therefore provide for the possibility of issuing an enforceable title on actions or applications for non-disputing claims falling within their scope within the above short deadline. Consequently, there was a need to regulate the procedural framework for the rapid and, in any event, within the above limit, to issue an enforceable title on actions or applications for non-disputed claims arising from an administrative contract concluded under that directive, given that the specific procedure provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure for the issue of a payment order is not provided for in the internal legal order and, on the contrary, the procedure provided for in Articles 623 et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure for the issue of a payment order may be applied to those claims. In compliance with this Directive, Article 1 of Article 1 of the Directive, subparagraph 6 (c) of the Directive applies. 4254/2014 stated that, as regards trade between the public, the Otta, the legal persons governed by public law, the legal persons of the public sector wholly owned by the public sector, the provision of Article 1(1) of Law No 4254/2014 does not apply. 3068/2002, as supplemented, amended and valid until now by other provisions prohibiting the execution of those bodies in the cases referred to in paragraphs (c) to (g) of Article 904, including the payment order. By Article 140 of the EEC Treaty. 4251, on the basis of the adaptation of national legislation to that Directive by Article 1 of the EC Treaty. 4152/2013 anticipated the establishment of a legal committee of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, with work on the drafting and provision of provisions to amend the V. As I said, 3068/2002, however, was covered by the above-mentioned regulation. 4254/2014, as well as the provision in national law of the issue of an enforceable title, when a underlying relationship is an administrative contract, that is, what comes to address the current draft law. The draft law therefore proposes provisions after Article 272 of the Code of Administrative Procedure with new articles from 272a to 272j, where provision is made for the possibility of issuing the payment order with a specific scope, especially for non-disputed financial claims arising from an administrative contract concluded under a trade transaction falling within the scope of paragraph (g) of Article 1 of that regulation. Date of birth: 4152/2013. An administrative contract, according to the case-law of the Supreme Special Court, is one of the Contracting Parties is the Greek public or legal entity governed by public law and the conclusion of the contract is intended to satisfy a purpose, but it has given rise to a public purpose. The Greek State or the legal person governed by public law, either under the rules governing the contract or under the conditions laid down by law and which have been included in the contract, are to the satisfaction of that objective in a dominant position vis-à-vis its counterparty, i.e. a position which does not qualify for private law, which is a contractual relationship. As regards the wording itself of the law to be adopted, the main feature of the legislative intervention is that the beneficiary of a liquidated financial claim after a unilateral procedure on the basis of which it is based and which is demonstrated with a high degree of evidence of security, acquires a direct enforceable title. Thus, the claim of the lender is directly met when it comes to a cleared claim, and in this way restores the normality of the transaction life. At the same time, there is provision for the person liable - obviously here in public and legal persons - to exercise the right of opposition to payment orders by making retrospective claims and objections to the substantive or formal legality of the payment order and provided that such conditions are met to achieve and suspend its enforcement. This ensures that the rights of creditor and debtor are balanced, i.e. both the applicant for the issue of a payment order and the stumbler in relation to the provision of legal protection. Thus, according to the differences provided for in administrative procedure, the model, the successful model of payment order under the Code of Civil Procedure, and other European arrangements, i.e. the unilateral nature of the issue of payment order, the certainty and the clearing of the claim and the defence of the debtor, that is to say. Now, the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of Article 3 of Regulation No 805/2004, according to which the claim is considered to be undisputed on the one hand if it has been explicitly recognised by a debtor by way of acceptance of the claim or by means of a compromise, in this case the Administrative Procedure is not provided for Greece, but is referred to in the Directive - or was drawn up by a court during a procedure or if the debtor has never been included in it in accordance with the relevant financial requirements of the law of the Member State of origin during the proceedings before a court, if the debtor has not been or has not been represented in the relevant hearing procedure since he has initially objected to the claim in the course of a procedure before a court, provided that the conduct is equivalent to the implied acceptance of the claim or acceptance of the facts alleged by the creditor in accordance with the law of the Member State of origin or of the public document. The second condition is that this claim must come from an administrative contract and I mentioned to you before the administrative contract is understood in accordance with the settled case law of the highest special court, concluded in the course of trade. In accordance with the scope of paragraph G of Article 1 of the Law. 4152 within the meaning of sub-paragraph G3, in accordance with that which transposes Union law and in particular Article 2 of Directive 7/2011, ‘trade transaction shall be understood as any transaction between undertakings or between undertakings and public authorities which involves the supply of goods or services for remuneration’. At this point I would like to say that, as the Minister said before, projects are included in this concept. In his statement, the Minister said that this would also be the subject of further processing, if there is a corresponding demand from the House. The third condition for issuing a payment order, in accordance with the proposed draft, is to complete the prudential control of the expenditure concerned and to have proved positive for its payment. Precautionary checks shall mean checks carried out prior to payment of the expenditure concerned by the Court of Auditors, where, however, it falls under its control, as well as the financial control services or, where appropriate, the services responsible for the clearance of the expenditure and the issue of the payment order concerned. In other words, it is necessary to complete the periodic reporting procedure required to carry out the expenditure, which results in the material disbursement of the corresponding amount of money. This procedure, in addition to the clearance and payment order, generally includes the control of the legality of expenditure, the provision of a provision of law, etc., the verification of its regularity, i.e. a legal commitment of expenditure, its provision in the budget, etc. That is to say, the procedure which makes the State, the Local Government Agency or the legal person governed by public law a debtor and at the same time the claim is not called into question in the abovementioned sense. In this context, completion and positive expenditure of the above procedure is the legal basis for the equipment of the undisputed claim under the enforceable title of the order for payment. I would very briefly like to make a reference to the articles to link it to the feasibility of this draft law. The conditions for issuing a payment order are laid down in these new articles, which are introduced by the Ministry of Justice, as are local jurisdiction. Before the Minister referred to the improvement in terms of the introduction to administrative appeals and the initial wording of the one-sided protagonist project. I would like to say that this has been the subject of a very important debate and a request from both the institutions and the associations of judges and the proposals made in writing by the plenary of the lawyers, but also from the references and requests - to say so - that Members of Parliament who have been dominated by the transfer to administrative courts of law on account of the less workload, but also the excellent competence already provided by the Code of Administrative Procedure with regard to the current competence of administrative courts to hear and determine cases arising from administrative contracts. The Minister also referred to the judiciary. I will not go into any further. I would just like to say that it is important that the Minister responded, in my view, to the most effective way in terms of the demands, proposals and views that have been heard during the previous procedure in committee, and these have been the subject of legislative improvements, which I believe very much satisfy the requirements, but also the legislative work itself in terms of its substance and its feasibility, and I must stress this very much. Finally, I would like to say that it is really important that, under the current system of payment order under the Code of Civil Procedure, which is indeed a successful institution, a corresponding institution is introduced into the Administrative Procedure, with which the institution is indeed able to constitute a payment order for claims arising from administrative contracts as well as an institution which will facilitate the prompt response of the claims in question. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u6	Of course, Mr. Skuma. Besides, you're just in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u7	I believe, however, that speeding up justice and the possibility of being satisfied through enforceable titles, like this regulation, is a function of many factors, especially our country's ability to break away from the tight fiscal embrace of lenders and to restore its ability to achieve the fulfilment of citizens' needs in basic social goods. One of these is the possibility of accessing the weakest social classes in justice, as is also the possibility of operating justice regardless of who is subject to it, who has the economic or non-economic potential to resort to it. Accessibility and proper administration of justice are a key pillar for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u8	We are very grateful to Mr Skouma, and in particular to mention the fact that justice is a pillar of democracy and the strengthening of just justice is a shield of democracy. The Minister asked for the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u9	Madam President, allow me to table the legal corrections which I have already announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u10	We thank the Minister for his honesty, because he said 'legislative corrections' instead of 'legislative improvements', which he has prevailed. I would like to make it clear that, because of the development of the legislative changes previously, they are now being tabled. The ministers have always been called upon to develop them, which the Minister had already done, and now it is being tabled in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Municipal School of Ilio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly my position today, because I am called as the rapporteur of the Minority, the Civilian Vice-President, to comment on a bill drawn up on my term of office when I have had the honour of serving in the Ministry of Justice. This bill was drafted by the previous government, consulted and tabled by a vote long before it expired last year. Unfortunately, due to the political instability that followed and the legislative time-consuming nature of the time, it was not possible to become a state law until the election was announced. This bill concludes our country's adaptation to the provisions of the directive number 2011/7 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, which was introduced into our legal order by Law 4152/2013. The adoption of the bill is therefore also partly an obligation for the country to participate in the European Union. The provisions concerning the issue of the payment order by an administrative contract, as was in the bill that we drawn up on my term of office, as I said, are almost identical to those laid down in this bill. It goes without saying that the New Democracy, which took part in the discussions in the committee in the vote on this draft, will also vote in plenary. The draft law would have supported it, even if we had not drawn up it, even if it had not been linked to a Community directive or to a Memorandum of Understanding, as is now the case. This is because the bill, although very technical, has reformist content and consistently reflects the ideological political stigma of the New Democracy. I'm explaining. New Democracy is the party that supports healthy entrepreneurship and knows that it is the private sector that brings wealth, investment and jobs. Today this country needs it more than ever. The private sector must be controlled so that it does not become dissatisfied, but the government's job is to support it and not to put bureaucratic obstacles on it. One of the long-term problems of the private sector is delaying payments, when companies are traded with the public. And when I say 'public', it is not just the public, but I also mean the legal entities governed by public law and the local authorities. Especially in the latter, there is a greater need for this reform, because there are too many micro-creditors who undertake projects in the municipalities and are late to be paid. This has great consequences for their liquidity. One of the long-term problems of the private sector is delaying payments, when companies are dealing with the public sector, as I said. The process of checking and clearing the claim is necessary, but it is often becoming time-consuming and bureaucratic. Payments could be delayed, due to an employee's inability to deal with the workload, or simply because a government has decided on time to use this money for other purposes. Thus, excessive delays, which may be fatal for the liquidity and hence the viability of a company, did not have any consequences for the State, while the private investor had no legal weapon in order to speed up the payment of the debts. The inequality of arms - if you wish - should be cured, and that is why we, although our Ministry's legislative timeliness was very heavy at the time, paid particular attention to this piece of legislation. And the reasons for this were primarily ideological. The proposed provisions provide for the obligation to ensure the speed of handling the case by issuing an enforceable title on actions or applications for unambiguous claims falling within its scope and, in fact, within a short period of time. It is expected that this whole procedure will end within 90 days. I have to note here that the procedure already provided for in civil law can be applied for the respective trade requirements under private law, and I am referring to Articles 623 et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure. The institution of the payment order is also found in other European legal classes and is also regulated at Community level by Regulation 1896/2006 establishing a European order for payment. I am glad, therefore, that the Minister for Justice of the present government adopts our proposal in almost all of it, although this may be partly due to reasons outside, as I mentioned, for example, compliance with Community law and compliance with Memorandum Obligations in the light of negotiation. I am also pleased that this government, which, in the past months with its negotiating stance, almost broke down the market and the real economy, takes a step in the right direction and a step away from stateism. The bill introduces a basic innovation: Following the example and practices of the payment order of the Code of Civil Procedure, creates a new enforceable title. Most of us - in particular lawyers - know what that means. Individuals, to whom the State owes money under an administrative contract in the context of a commercial conciliation, acquire the right, by issuing the payment order, to claim the prompt compensation, as would almost be the case if their lender were also a private person. The provisions in question are correctly contained in the Code of Administrative Procedure and supplement Article 272 by Articles 272A to 272I. The procedure for issuing a payment order for public law disputes arising in commercial transactions, namely the study and implementation of the project, the supply of goods and the provision of public, legal persons and local government services, becomes necessary after the transposition into our national law of Directive 2011/7, as I mentioned, concerning the fight against late payments in commercial transactions. This Directive was adopted in order to deal with late payment in commercial transactions and is intended to issue a European enforceable title in a short time in accordance with Regulation 805/2004. The provisions under which the procedural framework for the rapid adoption, as I have said, of an enforceable title on actions or applications for non-disputed claims arising from an administrative contract, concluded in the context of those governed by that directive, have been laid down, and the procedure of the Code of Civil Procedure, as I said, has not so far been provided for in the internal legal order. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The only change made to the draft law, as it is introduced, is in the second paragraph of Article 272G. That provision provides that the enforcement of the payment order shall start after the time limit for the opposition has elapsed. It is right that the improvement made by the Minister has been made. We have said so in committee too. I will not go into the articles. It is the subject of tomorrow's debate. We will talk about these in the written debate. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Ministry's bill is the work of the previous government, as I mentioned, and we congratulate the Minister for bringing it to the House, respecting the good work that had been done at that time at the Ministry. We understand that the reasons may not reflect SYRIZA's priorities for support for the winter private sector, but constitute a proof that, despite the opposite announcements, the Memorandum promises remain and SYRIZA approves them regardless of what it tells the people. We, who are not dogmatic, do not divide legislative initiatives into memorandums that are all bad and the others that when we recommend them are good and when they are proposed by another government are class and analgesic. The New Democracy looks solely at the interests of the country, the interests of the economy and supports initiatives that enhance entrepreneurship and hence growth and employment. I would now like to refer to the legislative improvement which has been tabled and which relates to Article 272(5). It is the result of the discussions that have taken place in the committee. They were proposals which were correct, supported by the rapporteurs, Mr Javaras, Mr Kokkalis, Mrs Kozobol and Mr Lappas, and introduced with the legislative improvement that was distributed to you. It is in the right direction, and we therefore consider it right. I now come to the amendments, as the Minister has limited them: one amendment, although it is late, I think it is absolutely relevant, the first two paragraphs in particular - because the others withdrew them - and we propose that they be adopted as well as the bill as a whole. Thank you. As you can see, Mr President, you will owe me five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. We're on our way to special speakers. Mrs Severoni-Hondonassiou has the floor on behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. You have 15 minutes at your disposal, Mrs. Sveroni.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill you are calling for, in any case. The outgoing Minister of Justice, Mr. Athanasios, agrees, he says, with you, but he says, "You know, this was our creation." Not much of the state, Mr Athanasios, has all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u14	I didn't say it was ours. We processed it. Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u15	Yeah, yeah, it's not bad, but I want to say the state keeps on doing it. It wasn't that different and important. It was a directive of the European Union. In any case, we had to comply with it and since the state was working - and it had to work - you had prepared this bill and the Minister came in and brought it to Parliament. And, of course, he either existed or he did not exist, we should, once we say that there is a directive of the European Union, adopt it. That's because there was an empty one. We, the Golden Dawn, ladies and gentlemen, are positively seeing the deposit of this bill. It is something that we have said to the committees. We have, of course, had some objections or doubts, Mr Minister. First of all, we say that these are requirements arising from an administrative contract, that have been concluded in the context of trade, that is, the State is the State, it is the State, it is the legal entities governed by public law, it is the giant on the one hand and, on the other, it is various companies, individuals. And when such requirements exist, usually the one in a less favourable position is not the public, is the counterparty, the public contracting party. When such requirements exist in the course of trade, something had to be done, so that the public, in any case, and the public bodies had the same impact, can be treated in the same way as individuals, traders in the ordinary law, as treated by the Code of Civil Procedure. In other words, at some point, the individual also had to feel that since he has been owed by the state, the public, and the public agencies and local government, he should not wait until he is sometimes bound to pay him back. He had to have the ability to have a title enforcer in his hands with a relatively brief procedure. Such a short procedure is the issue of a payment order, which is an institution that at least the lawyers, but also the non-legal and traders, know it, because in a short time you can have an enforceable title in your hands and claim what the public owes you, in this case. With regard to some objections we have had, Minister, I would like to say that these are administrative contracts and administrative contracts, as has been said by the bodies that came to the committees, are the responsibility of the administrative courts. A representative of the administrative judges also came, who said that it would be preferable for administrative appeals to be competent. I am very afraid of this, Mr Minister, and I am referring to my fellow Members and indeed to some of us from the same district of law: I had a meeting yesterday with the President of the Larissa Administrative Court. It's in the right direction, but what does it say? "We're not many. We fear that you there, in Athens, always think and see that Greece is just Athens." In other words, it has nothing to do with what I had told you at the time, Mr Minister, the Athens Administrative Court with the Larissa Administrative Court. I'm telling you this because it's a big district of the Larissa Administrative Court. There are few of them who serve there in relation to the volume of work they have. One more thing. In Athens, in the administrative courts, like all other courts, the judges have specific powers. Others are for contracts, others are for other actions. In Larissa, and not only in Larissa, I imagine, but in everything - not to say provincial - the regional appeals, all the sevens, all the judges are for everything. There I no longer know whether and whether what was said by the representative of the administrative courts is served - as you said, Mr Minister, and other colleagues - is doing - that the appeals have less workloads. It can happen in Athens. In the district appeals, that's not exactly the way things are done. So there we have some objections, some reservations, anyway. We see that you're in the right direction. Perhaps we should be a little more tortured or perhaps we should look, Minister, first of all, at our administrative courts, arm them, have more administrative applications, have more administrative appeals and administrative prototypes, and then, once we have these settled, we should say that these disputes are there. Why is the philosophy of this bill? The accelerated process. However, the accelerated procedure also requires inspiring material. Otherwise, these things are not done by themselves. That's where we have some objections, which we've been telling you. In the rest, yes, if there is an administrative contract in the course of the trade, which is not disputed. This means that it has been recognised or recognised, as my previous colleagues have said, but the preventive control of this expenditure is also necessary. Because this preventive control is also legal control, which means that research has been carried out in all directions, i.e. if the necessary supporting documents were to be taken, if it has been abandoned, what purpose is to serve this expenditure, if it is credited to the budget. So since this control of legality has been carried out, preventive control, what is going on? The completion of this audit means that all the necessary information has been checked so that the public or legal entities governed by public law or the local authorities make them debtors and the claim, of course, unquestionable. This is where there was - and we believe there was - a gap. It is not possible for other trade in private law to have this more rapid administration of justice, in terms of settlement of such claims, and, in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure, the possibility of issuing a payment order and an enforcer's title. There was the void here. We should, quite rightly, make provision in that direction. However, it is essential that, as in all other procedural acts, it is a cleared requirement, that preventive checks have been carried out and that a judicial act is required. It was proposed, Minister, that various colleagues should not be paid when the application is lodged but at the end of the deadline. But this on its own, you know what makes me think? That we do not believe that preventive control will be completed at that time. When we start and say that the court will be paid at the time of expulsion, because there is a chance that it will not be completed and that the applicant will not lose the money, which he has paid, I fear, that, while we are starting to do something good, we will start with something problematic. It is one thing: that, rather than perhaps, if it is no longer done, there is the possibility of the court being returned to the court itself. In other words, as I have said, we believe that it is in the right direction that this possibility of control exists. But there should be this possibility from the Court of Auditors, but also depending on what control mechanisms it is subject to. However, what I heard here and did not make a good impression when we were in the committee with the bodies was that the Court of Auditors' honest representative, when it was said that in a reasonable time to end this audit, he said 'we are judges'. But you are judges, but also judges are judges. Where do you get that authority to say 'I am a judge'? And until when can I do that check? In other words, we must all come to a standstill and see this institution that we are now going to do, with the seriousness with which we must see it. Because if everyone says "I'm a state", "I'm a judge" or whatever else, then we can't go forward, no matter how much laws and we can institutionalise, no matter how much forward we want to go. Here we are all equal to the law, like the judges who are auditors, are equal and are there from the state to do their work. And, indeed, when their work needs to be done at a certain time, they should learn to work in a particular context, in a time and not be out of every limit and out of every control. So we will be able to say that the preventive control will really be completed in the time that it takes. And we don't care if the auditor is a judge, he's equal, like everyone else, if we really want to change page and really be a state. We must all say, in any case, that everyone should do their job properly - everyone as it was - and not show each other the finger and say 'not me, but you'. Minister, I did not understand what you said: if it is not completed, that is, because of the audit mechanism or the Court of Auditors, then what should be done? Then should it be issued, but with a fighting presumption?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u16	Yeah, with a fighting presumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u17	Should there also be some ratifications there too? What do I mean? On the one hand, there is the public. There's a check. I'm the control mechanism. If I do not give the acknowledgement of prudential control, then there is the possibility with a fighting presumption that the counterparty will issue a payment order. Who is the ‘loser’? It's the state, the local government agency. Should an investigation or an audit be carried out in that direction? I say that because you have a fighting presumption, and a payment order can be issued, and the only element that may be missing, that may be what I might be responsible for. I mean, we should not be so flexible on some things. In any case, we must all have the same consequences, because here there is the fighting presumption in favour of the applicant and against the counterparty, which is either the Local Government Agency, public or legal entities governed by public law. Of course, you will tell me that it is possible for the counterparty to apply for a payment order, as there is a fighting presumption. Because there's nothing wrong with the public being the giant. And, of course, it also has the possibility for the public, like any other private person, if you want - and so it should be, since we are all equal to the law - to challenge it. I am telling you again that I think we should not be too flexible in terms of control. If we really want there to be a payment order, we support it from the beginning to the end. We are no longer leaving windows. Do you know what I'm afraid of, Minister? I fear that this bill - for which we are generally in favour - will also be the two pages of the bill which will become law and at the end, because of the amendments - not of those amendments - it becomes a volume. As usual in Greece, we have a law of five pages or five and all the amendments that have been made and made are ten volumes. That's why we finally arrive, instead of having laws that apply them, we have a plurality. How does pluralism work? It works against democracy, means lawlessness and leads to anarchy. In general terms, as I have said, we are in favour of this because the contracting party and the public must also be protected, but we have these objections which we have to raise. That is why, Minister, although we have said 'yes', we say 'yes'. We shall then look into the question of the draft law which is to be adopted, to tell you what our position will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you to Mrs Sveroni-Hondonasius. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and two teachers from the 1st Elementary School of New Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The next Special Rapporteur from Potami, Christina Tahiau, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the river wing]] Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a debate in the committee in a very good climate. Many reservations have been made by us, too, from the river. The Minister has pledged to bring about improvements. He pledged to listen to us. He promised that he would take the view of the agencies seriously. It is with great pleasure that we see that things we have reserved for in the debate in the committee now have been included, have changed. We also welcome the amendments which the Potami has proposed, because we consider the changes necessary and crucial, so that the law can function. We are also waiting, of course, for the final form of the bill. Tomorrow morning you said, Minister, that we will have the text completed. Well, this bill attempts to give the administrative courts the power to issue a payment order. This process has so far been foreseen only for civil courts, according to the Code of Civil Procedure. Looking at the cause of the introduction of this procedure and the administrative courts, we understand very well that it is coming to face a gap created by contradictory decisions of the Ice Bay concerning payment orders already issued against the public and how they are executed. We did not raise any objections to this instmment at first instance. We have been positive from the outset. We want this law to become a useful tool and be able to be used by individuals in order to collect their money by quick and certain procedures. We in the Potami are in favour of combating delays in payments and by the public, of payments in trade. Especially when the counterparty is the public, it has the potential to delay payments even for very small amounts. We all know very well how easy this thing is to be. We all know that if the state doesn't want to pay you, it'll trouble you until you're exterminated. This is precisely what the European Union directive, which you refer to in the explanatory statement, of course. There's a little problem, the public is verdicts too, and it's getting to the end. The ultimate aim, of course, is to prevent these instruments from acting as a deterrent and counterincentive to unjustified non-payment of contractual obligations, is to change the culture of the public, to become more friendly, more accessible, more reliable in his transactions and to become a fierce trader. Of course, we also want the liquidity of the market to be stimulated - that was what was written, that was the argument - and that the citizen has a title which is enforceable in his hands. On the other hand, we hope that the public as a counterparty will not come from his side as a banker to say "Since I can exhaust this margin, go out and get a payment order, I will, after the opposition, appeal, spend that time". In other words, there should be no public minds - if we can say this - that, in this way, payments may be delayed. The aim, of course, must be: the public must be treated just like the counterparty. That's justice. That's equivalency. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] During the hearing of the bodies, and outside it, the fighting lawyers and the bodies raised their concerns. The Bar Association raised the question of how unequivocal the measure is in the form that it had come to committee. And public suppliers - representatives of suppliers - people to whom the public owes a lot of money from administrative contracts, from administrative transactions, have said that they will resort to European courts if they are in the form they were, because they consider that this is a misappropriation of the directive, which we invoke in order to introduce. That is why we consider it positive that some opinions have been heard and entered into the bill, these amendments have been made - improvements so that it can be operational. Let us now say some objections we still have and explain them. In 272A, the first condition is the non-disputed requirement under Regulation No 805/2004. This, however, finds that it is extremely restrictive as a condition, because it is considered in the above regulation that the written and judicially validated or the one on which its confession is substantiated in a judicial procedure is not called into question. We would like to rethink this definition, because it limits the scope too much. How will a private person prove exactly the unquestionable on the basis of the above? And in what case will the public as a counterparty make a judicial compromise with its counterparty? And if that happens, that is, if it compromises the public and there's an execution title, what do we need it after the payment order? One issue also serious for us, which we have pointed out from the outset, is that final judicial decisions are not included in the unquestionable disputes. Not including final decisions in disputes as a condition for the issue of a payment order, the administrative judge responsible for issuing a payment order shall lead to the irresponsibleness of the court responsible for issuing a payment order not to issue a payment order without substantially respecting his own court. By the recent judgment of 369/2014 of the Ice Bay - which the report of the Scientific Service, posted last afternoon - Arios Ice issued a payment order on the basis of a final administrative decision. We insist on this, given the direction in which amendments are adopted with a view to the adoption of the law. We believe that the definition of a non-disputed claim by the European regulation should be removed and that final judicial decisions should also be included. We now go to the third condition, which is preventive control. We had expressed the reservation as to whether there should be one. However, the improvement made - 'where necessary' - is very important to us, because in the original wording the problem was very serious, because preventive control is not mandatory for all expenditure under commercial contracts. For example, there is no need for control over administrative contracts under contracts of less than EUR 30,000. There is also no need for preventive checks on costs, graphics, lighting, cleaning, heating and renting of public services buildings. The addition of the expression "where required" extends the possibility of issuing a payment order even in these cases. That is why we believe that apart from the C - where, as you have committed, it will have to enter A, in order to see that these cases can also be made subject to the issue of payment orders. Secondly, with regard to the issue of the presentation of control, we have been through it. What would happen, however, if he did not come in, was that if the result were positive, he would make a payment order. If there was a negative result, he wouldn't have made a payment order. If there was a certificate that the audit - which is not the responsibility of the trader, but the public, then there would still be no order for payment. It is a good thing, then, that this addition is coming in - an improvement that you are doing. One serious question is that the public is a procedural party. The President of the Association of Administrative Judges had also said it on a related programme for the award of justice by Mrs. Ireni Giannadakis. It is wrong, it has said, even when it comes to detailed legal matters, and even to very small sums, even less than EUR 150, which makes it difficult for justice to be rapidly awarded. We don't want a public like this. We want a public which is friendly, functional and public service, and which will not literally bring out the soul of anyone who has the misfortune to trade with him. So we want to insist on our proposal that the notion of a questionable requirement be otherwise defined. As far as preventive control is concerned, we have done so. As far as the end of a judicial act is concerned, it is also good that we have also heard of it, and it will be the thirty-fifth day to be paid. So if there are no conditions on the part of the public, at least the man who appealed for payment will not lose it. One point which we would like to clarify is the composition of the administrative court to discuss opposition. Are we talking about one-sided or three-member? As far as I understand it, we're talking about three-member. It is therefore presumed that there is no subsequent appeal against this decision. Right? So it's over there. It is good to know that this is where it closes and that there is no further instrument to delay the public. We also see this as a positive one. We have a legal correction - something we have also said to the committee - in Article 272H, paragraph 6, which states: 'The exercise of the opposition does not suspend the execution of the order for payment. The appeal court may, however, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 206 et seq., adjudicate until a final decision has been adopted on the opposition, on the grounds laid down, etc.’. The word 'definite', however, is wrong, because the oppositions are decided by the administrative court, the decisions of which are final. So the word 'definitive' should be deleted. At least we think so. But if you think that I should not, I should like to hear the explanation, because here we want to be very clear, precisely so that the citizen does not suffer any further. The big and real problem now is the question of forced execution against the public. To give birth to executors, but torn apart, it's problematic, and it's judiciary protection. In Law No 1715/1951, on the basis of which execution is effected against the State, it is laid down that judgments in administrative disputes are suspended against legal persons until such time as they become irrevocable. We believe that this should also be amended by the enforceable titles to be issued under this procedure and against which no opposition has been brought or the time limit for the opposition has passed, or the opposition has been refused, to be excluded from the obligation of irrevocable judgment. These remarks have to be made. Because Potami believes - and it seeks - that the citizen's relationship with the public and administration in general must be friendly, it must be simple and, above all, it must be very clear. We must be very clear, in particular by bringing here a bill, which is in the direction of serving the citizen, who has been afflicted. Because - I repeat - the public, if he doesn't want to pay you, he'll take you as far as he can. Even when this relationship between the citizen and the public and the administration is being attempted through courts, we want it to have these features. Of course, we despise the citizen's relationship with the public through the courts to get his money. We want to help the courts to find solutions by law. We want citizens in general to trust the public and the administration. The reality, of course, is not so, it is different. However, when justice is not given, when justice fails, the level of democracy falls. That is why we believe that we need to make this legislation useful and not the scratch of veto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Christina Tachiau. Before giving the floor to the next special speaker, I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 21st Municipal School of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis, has the floor. Here, Mr Vardalis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it may at first glance seem that the bill seeks a technical legal adaptation of a directive by the European Parliament and by the Council to deal with late payment in commercial transactions, but it is a draft law which forms part of the general policy of restructuring promoted by both the Government and the European Union, with a view to ensuring profitability, in particular, of the major business groups. That's what this is about. Of course, it harmonises legislation with the European legal framework, but it is a link of a chain, part of a series of measures that are trying to ensure the facilitation of capitalist development in our country, the exit from the economic crisis. The European Union's directive on this issue is clear. It states in particular that ‘This measure is part of a European economic recovery plan, a measure aimed at repayment of invoices within one month in order to address liquidity constraints’. It is therefore clear in what direction this legislative initiative is moving. In order to comply with the Community directive, a legal aid such as the payment order, which facilitates the procedural specific categories of operators and even at a time when the courts are suffocating from the cumulation of thousands of pending cases, where thousands of cases, involving populace, are ponding. The European Union and the governments, like your government, do not show the same sensitivity to the ordinary people. For example, Minister, why do you not introduce a corresponding rapid legal aid, such as the payment order, to facilitate thousands of insured persons claiming administrative hospitals or other social security benefits and whose cases are delayed and even avenged after years? Even if someone had doubts about the objectives of this bill in this measure, we think that the intervention of the rapporteur in the new Republic both in committee and today in plenary clears these issues. As they matter, I would like to highlight some of what he said to us: 'This draft law would have supported it, even if we hadn't drafted it. Even if it was not linked to a Community directive or - look - 'Memorandum obligation, as is now the case. And this, because the bill, although very technical, has reformed times and consistently echoes the ideological position of New Democracy." Isn't it a little strange not to make a peek of what the rapporteur of the New Democracy has said? He said so to the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u22	That helps the micro-loans. Go to the local government agencies and see the municipalities and regions what they owe the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u23	We know them, Mr Athanasios. You will then listen to our opinion on this. This does not, however, rebutt the main objective of the draft law, the one I mentioned earlier. I am therefore addressing the majority Members: is it not strange that the rapporteur in New Democracy highlights this objective? He said so to the committee. And you didn't say a word. He said it today in plenary. And go on, you haven't noticed the reform issues. You missed your ideological position. But have you not felt the need to counteract the report on Memorandum Obligations, either? Here, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a'speaking order', such as the sketching of the memorials that you have spoken in the election, but a concrete Memorandum commitment from both the previous and the current government, implemented by this legislative initiative. Once again, it turns out how polluting the dilemma was: a memorandum or an antimony. And it is a polluter, dear fellow Members and colleagues, because this requires a conflict with capital, with the European Union and with their power, while your policy, today's policy of convergence, is a compromise policy with the European Union on behalf of capital. Workers and people have nothing positive to expect from such regulations and more generally from capitalist development. On the contrary, through and through this legislative initiative, it proves once again that the urban state is united with the great interests, namely national contractors and suppliers. Take a little note of what the European Union directive itself says at another point. First of all, it is specific who is included in the term 'trade'. In particular, the directive states: "The design and execution of public works and buildings and civil engineering projects should also be included. And he goes on to say: 'Special concern in relation to late payment is caused by the state of health services'. Therefore, large manufacturing groups, pharmaceuticals and other business groups have in mind this directive. And what's he trying to do? Both the directive and the explanatory statement are very clear about this. What they are facing is 'to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and thus to enhance the competitiveness of enterprises'. The directive says that. In other words, late payments have a negative impact on the liquidity, competitiveness and efficiency of businesses. You see, long payment deadlines and late payments by public authorities for goods and services cause unjustified costs for businesses. They know that such risks are greatly increased in times of capitalist economic crisis, when funding becomes more difficult. And because there are cross-border transactions, their aim is to implement the different rules which exist in Member States of the European Union in order to tackle the distortions of 'health' competition. And how do they achieve their goal? In fact, they speed up the process by establishing an institutional order for payment by the administrative courts and for dealing with private individuals with the State. The suppliers once could wait. Now because of the capitalist crisis, no. It is therefore easy to move the market, the liquidity of the companies. The government in its explanatory statement argues that it is coming to deal with a problem particularly affecting small and medium-sized enterprises. That was the aim of Mr Athanasios' speech. We do not doubt that a problem of this kind also faces a number of self-employed and small traders and professionals and especially small businesses who offer services or build works in the municipalities, regions and other legal entities governed by public law. So far from us the view that the Communist Party of Greece is not interested in self-employed, small traders and small professionals. We have even tabled to the committee a proposal to step up the costs of the judiciary in such a way that for the self-employed, small and medium-sized enterprises do not prevent them from being paid to the administrative courts. Our opinion is that the government invokes small and medium-sized enterprises to put backs on large manufacturing groups, pharmaceuticals, large business groups. The fact that the Government and the European Union are not being cut for small and medium-sized enterprises is also apparent: first of all, when the European Union is talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, it makes reference to European data, that is, it considers small and medium-sized enterprises that have more than two hundred and fifty employees. It is for them that the European Union is interested in such sizes of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as in self-employed enterprises or companies that have three or four employees, as is the case in our country. But will small and medium-sized enterprises be saved from such regulations? We, ladies and gentlemen, do not have such illusions. First of all, to the extent that the payment order is issued and does not pay the public, the individual concerned should implement the order against the public. This process and it's costing it, and it's pulling it out. It is clear that for a small- and medium-sized group it will be a great burden and will not be able to lift it, which is easy for large groups, for example, beyond the fact that the large ones who have to take large sums will not even have to resort to this process, because this law will only be pressingly operated by the threat of issuing a payment order. It is also understood from this point of view who this particular arrangement is actually being made. However, the rescue of self-employed, small and medium-sized tradesmen and traders, even if these arrangements are used, is not going to come either now in a crisis or if we go to a phase of the temporary development of the capitalist economy in our country. The SMEs themselves now have experience, know well what the conditions mean, for example, 'the market economy with free competition', 'the European perspective of the country is a one-way' or 'the liberalized market','globalisation' as well as 'the single internal market'. They know how hostile the policy of coexistence and of the European Union, which supports monopolies, is to increase their profits, to increase the exploitation of workers and to dominate the market, to marginalise or to destroy small and several medium-sized enterprises. One-way for self-employed and micro-enterprises is not subjection to the system of monopolies, but resistance, organised struggle to overthrow them, together with all the workers, at the side of the workers. In our view, it is clear on which basis this legislative initiative is part and what is the nature of the draft law. It is an initiative, within the framework of the commitments you have made to the troika, to 'institutions', to promote reforms contributing to the development of the capitalist economy and to ensure liquidity in a period of capitalist economic crisis. This is what you do and everything else is necessary to cover this policy. Finally, although obviously the main objective of the inspirings of the bill, namely the European Union and the Government, is to facilitate large public contractors and suppliers, we realise that the arrangements of the bill will objectively include claims of self-employed and generally small businessmen, public suppliers and, in particular, public or other legal entities, who, as often happens, remain unpaid. In view of this parameter, namely that it concerns small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, we are voting 'at present' and we are not voting against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios Bardalis. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the draft legislation is the implementation of a European obligation. The draft law therefore resolves issues that had arisen in previous years and in particular regarding the competence of the administrative courts with regard to Otta, public and legal entities governed by public law. While a portion of the relevant decisions agreed to be adjusted for the approval of a payment order accepting that the civil courts were competent, even if that relationship was resulting from an administrative contract, another portion of the judicial decision rejected the applications for the approval of a payment order, on the ground that the claims were based on a dispute under the jurisdiction of the civil courts, should therefore be brought to the administrative courts. The draft law finally resolves this and the administrative courts are responsible. The provisions to be voted on now allow individuals who have entered into a commercial transaction with the State and if they have cleared claims, to claim their money by gaining an enforceable title through the administrative courts and thus have a powerful power by means of pressure on the State to pay the sums due. The maximum period for the authorisation of a payment order shall be ninety days after the application has been lodged. In addition, the provisions of this judgment and the adoption of a draft law lay down the procedures for ordering payment, the terms and conditions of the standard harmonized Community directive. We said at the first meeting of the committee that the most important point in this draft law for the approval of a payment order was the condition that the preventive control of the person who has been involved with the public or the municipality has been completed. A prerequisite that was in conflict with the explanatory statement itself, but also with the appropriateness of the law, as was just mentioned by the Minister. I personally said that, as the order was, there would be little to no payment orders against the public. Basically, the bill itself legalised the delay of the municipalities, of the public for preventive control. As the order was against the principle of legality. The principle of legitimacy, Mr Minister, and we have said so at the first meeting of the Standing Committee, it only applies to the public and not to the private. The State must indicate to the private, the counterparty, the contract that is to be signed and not the private. The public, whether it is the mayor or the vice mayor, must comply with this principle of legality. With the legislative improvement, however, which was tabled today and developed by the Minister, the opposition that this provision has to do with the very appropriateness of the law is being healed with this presumption. It is therefore in the right direction, because this was essentially the most central point, preventive control and opinion if it is positive for payment. We agree at the beginning of the bill. Also, Minister, we agree with the end of the court. That's right. It's submitted within 30 days. The Independent Greeks are voting in principle on this bill, after of course the legislative improvements made by the Minister, which were also proposals from the Independent Greeks, especially for preventive control. We are voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Red. The special speaker from the PASOK Parliamentary Group, George Arvanitides, has the floor and we will then proceed to the speakers. Mr Arvanitides, you will allow me to make an announcement first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-five students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the Elementary School of Agia Marina Nea Macris. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Arvanitides has the floor for 15 minutes. Mr Arvanitides, thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the issue of a payment order for a claim by an administrative contract issued in the context of a trade transaction. Of course, does anyone legitimately wonder what trade in the country's own situation? I think it's minimal. And what will trade be tomorrow, tomorrow, depending on the attitude that the government will hold? The Minister of State was right yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, and used the expression in the process of selecting the executives for the Board. of the ERT 'the world is also lost...'. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we will fully agree with you. Here the world is being lost and over the last few days the debate is whether the dose to the IMF is paid or not, whether we are going to break or not we are going to break. The pensions, of course, will be paid. And one wonders how this will be done if he tries to raise the 1.5 billion euros in June to the IMF and all the other obligations the Greek State has. And let us go in June, July, August, the small agreement, the large agreement, the two instalments of agreement. So we continue to play the communication games again at the expense of the Greek people without having secured almost anything. In all this, in this climate, in today's plenary we are discussing the facilitation of trade in a broad sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that fairy tales should be over at some point. After four months of governance we are at the point where the Prime Minister tells us that Mrs Merkel is fine - 'Merkelists' begins to relax and relax a little - but this time our problem is Mr Shoeble. It's time after four months of uncertainty, insecurity, irresponsibility, finally make the necessary decisions. Make your choices - your certainly choices - looking for the right options. And right choices are those that ensure our country, our country and not the left wing of SYRIZA and its component. In no way is the Greek people concerned, ladies and gentlemen, what is the position on the central committee of the various legitimate or non-legal objections the government is having. The new national division, the new Memorandum - antimony dilemma, must finally end in that country. We must return the country to a normal orbit, to a normality, to promote reforms, sectors, changes, to discuss them, to agree on them, and then also to discuss arrangements for trade. Besides, of course, the self-evident mandatory nature of the need for effective and complete harmonisation of our national legislation with Union law, the draft law if it is fully implemented and without stumbling, will truly bring positive, very positive results in the execution of administrative contracts and confidence in relations between the state and business. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law gives rise to mixed feelings, essentially positive, but also serious reservations. I would like to make it clear from the outset that this is a necessary and positive legislative step. And, of course, only satisfying can it be that the current government seems to give up its ideological obsessions, decides to complete outstanding legislative initiatives by the previous government, even when they come from pressing memoranda of actions in the fiscal adjustment programme. It is very useful not to stick to the labels anymore, but to go to the essence of things and to see what our place, society, our economy, really needs. In principle, therefore, the PASOK welcomes this bill to the House. It is essentially the conclusion and conclusion of a very important legislative initiative by the previous government. It is true that 2013 attempted to harmonise first Greek legislation with the requirements of European Union directives, which remained incomplete and thus rather ineffective. In order to complete the need to complete the reform by adopting new institutions, such as the order of payment from administrative contracts, the previous government with the Minister of Finance and Justice formed the necessary legislative committee with members of unknown prestige that has resulted in a conclusion already since the summer of last year. Therefore, today alone as a positive one can assess the fact that the Ministry of Justice, with any delay, comes to conclude such a necessary and positive regulation. The former government's initiative was at the outset aimed at creating a new culture of short trading even when the counterparty is a public authority. This is in line with the objectives of Directive 2011/7 of the European Union on late payments. On the substance, that is, as noted in the explanatory statement, it is - if applied - a measure of breath in the private economy, an attempt to stimulate liquidity in the market. A key, no doubt, positive targeting of the draft law is the treatment of the pathogens of the private economy that have been severely affected by the economic crisis, especially in terms of its turbulent relations with the public administration. The bill focuses its regulation on the critical scope of administrative contracts, where it is known that many problems of fulfilling the financial obligations of the State are accumulated, especially in recent years. I personally have a bitter knowledge of the current problems of Greek businesses, as I come from the marketplace, like many other colleagues in this House, and even from a region, Macedonia, which has been irreparably affected by the difficulties and deindustrialisation many years before the crisis that we are experiencing today. Ladies and gentlemen, the public debts to its counterparties are large and unpaid. Excessive delays in payments of public spending in trade weaken our economy by depriving it of the necessary liquidity. The problem is present, lasting and very serious, and that is exactly where our main wish and expectations for the successful implementation of the new legislation are concerned, as well as our main fear and our serious reservations about the realistic prospects of the whole initiative. The regulation we are discussing today was designed by the previous government, as I said, in very different circumstances with very different and much more positive and optimistic prospects for budgetary data. Greece in 2014, after many years of bloodshed, possibly miserable attempts at fiscal adjustment, had gained the right to better plan its future with greater optimism. Today, however, all these results are at least in doubt, not to say that they have been completely evaporated. Together with our international credibility we are losing our last expectations of improving the entrepreneurial environment and a definitive and long-term solution to our budgetary problems. Today the market has dried up: zero liquidity. The full posture of internal payments by the public is now a fact. The primary surplus has evaporated, the positive growth rate is zeroed. What I am telling you is some of the evidence that proves the seriousness of the situation. I do not know if, at the point where our economy is today, it allows us to have such debates on trade regulation. We are watching through every means through the eternal negotiations. We accept the drop-off - and not the House - contradictory information on the prospect of agreement. Today on the sirials he plays G7- verbal help from the President of the United States, and we also put no taxes on ATMs. This is the market climate that we are shaping. One day we agree, the next day we go to a referendum, elections, a rupture and everything else has the Greek vocabulary. At the same time, the real economy is in a real posture of payments and not only between public and private individuals, but also among individuals, confidence in the field of transactions has been irreparablely affected. So we are wondering, ladies and gentlemen, what public in which country will it ever be able to repay frauds from administrative contracts that are not only called into question, but much more so under the rules of the law, will they have been recognised in short time by court orders? The Greek State which has declared an informal payment stop, which owes its suppliers and so many projects contractors? Local government agencies and government bodies that no longer pay anyone, and which, given the difficult economic situation, have recently seen their available committed to the fear of bankruptcy? I waited with interest for the report from the General Accounting Office of the State to note something of this, but I was rather disappointed. That's all in the first place. We can therefore only raise a strong concern not to the necessity of the legislation, but to the way and the scope for real and secure implementation in practice. However, it is worth, Minister, to raise a number of specific issues today. I think, in particular, that it is worth pointing out the question of suspension of a statutory order. We note that the same deadline for an opposition by the State has suspensory effect, so that the enforcement of an order cannot begin. We realise, of course, that the delay caused is not great, but, on the other hand, why introduce such a procedural prerogative for the public today? Perhaps only reason could be to avoid reintroducing things in the previous situation in the event of the future cancellation of an order that would have been executed. Let me also make two points. First of all, I would like to ask if the state has considered how realistic and effective the execution of a payment order against a public legal person can be? What, for example, is the assets that the beneficiary of an investment may seize and execute the order he has obtained? I say this because it is a constant ban on the execution of offences committed in the public interest. Obviously, a group of public assets that can respectably be made available primarily to creditors to meet their demands should be safely established. This is a very demanding exercise of the balance between the public mission of the administration and the legitimate private interests of the beneficiaries of a claim against the public. And something else that is, in my view, very important. It is about the need to speed up the budgetary control process. The preventive control which is being carried out today not only by the Court of Auditors but also by the financial control services presents, as you know, significant delays. This is an issue which, unfortunately, today's bill cannot heal, because rightly as a condition for issuing the payment order, the necessary monitoring of expenditure must be carried out beforehand. In view of this, I think it is clear that there is a risk that a long time will be allowed to elapse before a payment order can be issued. In this sense it is right that a strict deadline has been set for the administration to submit the relevant audit report. Sadly, however, both the current malfunctions and the suffocating deadline themselves point out in practical terms that the financial control services are rarely going to complete the check in time and payment orders will be issued with supposedly positive control and that, as a result, we will have a number of opportunities for this reason and, therefore, we will have a new round of multiple pending cases in the courts. The whole question, of course, is more relevant to the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which has to find ways to strengthen the financial control services and make the necessary payments for the expenditure due. We cannot expect greater liquidity on the market without having secured the unavoidable flow of funds from the State into the private economy and speeding up financial controls is a necessary treaty for this. To conclude, we believe that this bill has good and sincere intentions. It advocates the strengthening of the private economy, aimed at changing the culture of payments to the administrative bases, calls on the public to set a real example by honouring its obligations which have been committed within reasonable years and in that sense, we are in agreement. The fact that the previous government, in which we participated, was responsible for drawing up this draft law also verifies our agreement with its regulations. The devil is, of course, hiding in the very application of the new model for payment orders and, in particular, at the stage of implementation of the order under these economic and financial conditions. It seems extremely difficult today's Greek state, which comes even closer to the range of bankruptcy, which is difficult to pull out the retreat of the insolvent state above it, can satisfy its debts immediately and effectively, with seriousness, consistency and security, without uncomfortable accidents with unforeseeable consequences. PASOK supports any reform that is in a progressive direction and will always support legislative initiatives that serve the public benefit. We hope and hope that this draft law, when it is passed and made law, will not be undermined by the serious dystomia of public control services, thereby contributing to the relief of market liquidity, for the sake of the economy, society, entrepreneurship and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. We are now going to the speakers in the first place. Mrs Panagiota Kozobol - Amanatidis, Member of the SYRIZA, will be followed by Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, Member of the New Democracy. I would remind the Rules of Procedure of the House that the speaking time of speakers at the beginning of the bill is seven minutes. Mrs Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions in question are supplemented by the Code of Administrative Procedure in such a way that the administrative courts issue an order for non-disputed financial claims for payment by an administrative contract concluded in trade, where it is the one concluded between undertakings and public authorities for the supply of goods or services for a fee. As the Minister has explained, here include project studies and project provision and project provision. With the current regime, there was a dissatisfaction over the possibility of issuing a payment order by the civil courts. Following Decision No 1264/2011 of the Ice Bay, where with a detailed statement of reasons it decided that the civil courts are not competent to issue a payment order under an administrative contract, the judges avoided making a payment order in accordance with the political procedure. Thus, the disputes in question were given to the Administrative Appeals of a three-member composition, first and last instance. Although the action in question is to a certain extent heard, the time for obtaining an enforceable title is high, given the pendingness that exists in the administrative courts too. Furthermore, there is also a question of harmonisation of legislation on the subject of the present provisions with European law. In other words, there are essential and typical reasons for rationalisation and accelerating the process. The institution of the payment order in the civil courts has been successfully tested and implemented for decades. The specific provisions to be adopted today had been consulted by the previous government. This, of course, does not mean that we can enlist them in memorial or antimony. This is a harmonisation of our national law with Union law, which is imposed by simple logic and does not require the memoranda to impose it. The new government, faithful to its programme commitments, including the acceleration in the administration of justice, brought this legislation to a vote. That is the way it is done and let the KKE colleagues everywhere see it - there are no dragons here. Because they need to know that suppliers and small-scale public worksmen are the ones who are urgent to be paid for the work they have done and handed over and their delivery is certified, so that they too can pay their own suppliers and workers to them. Sponsors do not expect the payment order to be paid, but they draw up contracts with their legal staff, in such a way that they are paid before they hand over the project. They never lose. The problem is with small and medium-sized businessmen, whose often delay in obtaining an enforceable title leads to despair and bankruptcy. Therefore, the provisions added to the Code of Administrative Procedure with Articles 272A to 272G, as improved in the drafting of the bill, come to achieve a dual objective: to solve a timely problem, that of delay and to harmonise our national legislation in EU law, to combat late payments in commercial transactions. The bodies that were called and came to the committee responsible, I think, were all positive for the legislation in question and only expressed some reservations, which the Ministry of Justice took into account, and there were amendments and legislative improvements. What I am impressed about is the behaviour of the Athens Bar Association, who, despite being called, did not take part in the committee responsible and consult on the discussion and preparation of this legislation. I will be tempted to say that this is the second time that the Athens Bar Association is called upon to express its views in a bill of the Ministry of Justice, but it is not coming. The Athens Bar Association, after a celebration, at the end of the bill procedure, sent letters - and I received such a letter - asking for that bill to be withdrawn. The least I can say is that the Athens Bar Association - I am not saying the President of the House, Mr Alexandres, because from what I have been informed he has not discussed with the other Presidents - does not contribute in this way to the difficult work of the Ministry of Justice, which, despite the difficulties of this period, processes new codes, with the aim of reforming and modernising criminal law, penal law, and the organization of courts and the general acceleration in the administration of justice, but also in the easy access of citizens to it. It is true that the claims made by the Bar Association do not correspond to reality, since it is not true that all civil courts issued orders to pay by administrative contracts, since many judges abstained. I have already mentioned a decision by the Ice Arena in this regard. It is also not true that the legislation does not include claims arising from public works contracts. The Minister said so in his speech. The legislation equips the beneficiary with an accelerated procedure and within a short time, with an enforceable title. Secondly, the difficulties - to which Mrs Tachyau referred - of collecting these requirements, are unfortunately another issue. It is, however, quite another thing to trouble the rightholder for many years to ensure such an enforceable and otherwise to have this title quickly and to look at how it will be executed. Finally, after accepting the proposal for a priority equalisation of the opposition to the payment order, it is clear that this legislation contributes to speeding up the administration of justice which is a pathetic one to be met by our new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Panayota Kozombol. Mr Ioannis Antoniadis has the floor and Mr Ioannis Lagos is prepared. Here, Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a good afternoon. The introduction is dedicated to the Bureau, Madam President. It's easier to conquer the top of Olympus and Everest, despite the top of the Step of the House. It has also been said by other colleagues - I agree with and commend - that this is not a House of Members, as provided for in the Constitution, but is a House of Parliamentary Representatives, Ministers, the privileged ones, it is a Parliament of one-fifths after the applauders and the audience. And I honestly wonder. When here, from the city and the country that gave birth to democracy, in this Parliament, is it not possible to ensure isotope and iso-state, what can the inhabitants of Florinna and Sufli? I'm closing the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u34	Allow me, Mr Antoniadis, however, to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u35	As many as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u36	The Rules of Procedure state exactly what you have said. However, this regulation has not been drafted for the last four months but for many years. And for the purpose of drafting this regulation, they contributed certain majorities, and I think you know that. Continue, and excuse me for the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, for the time economy, I will only tell you something: Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u38	I'll take your time off. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u39	So, let me tell you that while there are seven or fifteen minutes for those who come to the Step, the President, in order not to interrupt the creative assembly and thought, allows them to speak for fifteen minutes. What does that mean? This means that the last ones on the list are faded. And in democracy the absolute freedom of one another is the absolute oppression of another. We've been on the list ten times and we've never been able to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u40	Let me once again say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u41	Clearly, you'll take away my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u42	I'll remove him, of course. This Bureau has not stopped any Member of Parliament. In fact, it has received complications because it has given a lot more time to ordinary parliamentarians to place themselves. Keep going. I'm ticking the time, and we're starting over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u43	What the President says is correct. It never interrupts anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u44	Yeah, but that's the mistake. The first ones are sneezing the last ones. If that's a democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Antoniadis, you're a second speaker. You have time. Talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u46	Thank you for the time, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living unprecedented situations, unique in Greek political history. While there are one and a half million unemployed, while there are four and a half million in the humanitarian crisis - the figures are from the SYRIZA MPs - while there are shops that close every day, an economy that is suffocating and an entire people, who are hostage and are literally fighting for today and tomorrow - it is not really a form of speech, it is not about the day after tomorrow, it is only about today - we have a government that is doing what it is doing? Philosophy, empty, says poems, walks through the lakes and the islands and competes in creative ambiguity. To make a small assessment of the measures he has taken and the bills he has brought. We refer to Xeros's discharge, the reception of anarchists in perimeter, the opening of detention centres and, of course, the major humanitarian crisis, of 200 million. And suddenly four and a half million became a hundred or two thousand. An entire people is a hostage of the philosophies and amateur manipulations of a truly unrelated political and diplomatic government. Question one. Why do you not tell Parliament about the negotiations for four months? Because for three and a half months, only white papers went to Europe and went back. And you can be certain that for these three and a half "white" months, some will account for the damage done to the economy and the Greek people. Is it possible, when the only ally was left from China, from Russia, from all of them was America, that the government would be in a hurry to bring this arrangement to Xeros? Couldn't he make it in October or November or a little later? Three points for the Prime Minister. Is it possible for the Prime Minister to confess after three months that he was wrong about the most crucial post and put the most inappropriate person in this key post? Does the government understand what damage has been done at the place these three months? And, of course, the Prime Minister himself realises that the people are now beginning to doubt the Prime Minister's decision to choose partners. Labelling second. Forty days from February 20th, the Prime Minister admits he was wrong. This was pointed out by the opposition, in other words, that it was going to get money without a deal, but it got an agreement without money. And he admits he made this mistake. Labelling Tuesday. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, a Prime Minister who cannot conflict with two - three of his Members who openly question him, a Prime Minister who cannot change a wrong person in the wrong place, this Prime Minister to conflict with local interests and established attitudes? Or much more, can this Prime Minister conflict with foreign interests? He is a Prime Minister, an awkward, helpless, practically a wheeled man in political and economic interests! The red line, which the government constantly invokes, is the country. In these three months, what should have been done is to gather the wise of this country, in the presence of political leadership, spiritual, religious, and not come out of the House or the Maximos Mansion, unless they find a way to develop. Development and salvation are the same concepts. Without growth there is no salvation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u47	Will you tell us anything about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u48	I'll tell you, partner. The time comes for the bill, don't. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u49	Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u50	Why do you put heavy titles in the bills, which have nothing to do with reality? ‘Relaunch of the economy’, ‘Democracy of the public...’. I'll ask every month. It's been forty days. How much relaunching the economy did we have with this famous bill that had nothing to do with the economy? Every month, then, I will ask how much democratisation we have and how much resumption of the economy that is sinking into the recession. For the bill, which is of great interest to my colleague, I would say that it is indeed in the right direction, but it is a plaque in relation to the economy, the laws, the rules and the institutions that govern it. If we continue at this rate, there will not be any business in the near future and transactions will not take place with these products. But I said that it is in the positive direction and we will support it. Ladies and gentlemen, ever so many have not taken up so much time to produce so few results. And that's a success of the SYRIZA government. I'm only sad about 36% of what you've been saddled with, you've been bitter enough, you've disappointed it while it's backed up. I'll close, saying there can be a deal. I hope so. The agreement will be made and the country will not be destroyed. But there is no case with a SYRIZA government to see a white day for the simple reason that he is an enemy of the private initiative, business and business. As long as this government exists, the country is doomed to stagnation, stagnation, uncertainty and insecurity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u51	Before I give the floor to Mr Ioannis Lagos, I would like to urge my dear colleague, Mr Antoniadis, to say that the points he made from the Step of the House today in the debate on this bill, as far as the Prime Minister is concerned, may raise them as a question with parliamentary scrutiny to the Prime Minister at the time of the Prime Minister, to get answers and answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u52	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u53	I think that good use should be made of the possibility of Members being given to them by...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u54	No censorship is allowed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u55	I didn't make a censorship, Mr. Antoniadis. I've been intriguing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u56	To assume your responsibilities, which we can't talk about four months!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u57	Mr Antoniadis, I have urged and reminded you that you have this possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u58	Thank you for your advice, we'll follow them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u59	Well, Mr. Ioannis Ragos has the floor for seven minutes and Mr. Alexander Hadjimitriou prepares.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me not to refer to the bill. Our Special Buyer will also be mentioned by our Parliamentary Representative. You will allow me to refer to some other events that have taken place, which are not, of course, given the opportunity to talk about them from nowhere. And since we only have the Step of Parliament to speak, let's say a few things to find out here in the temple of democracy! I will tell you some things that have happened since May 6, 2015 that we are talking about now, until today. May 6th. Attack and anti-fascist take responsibility for the attack on the office of the lawyer of the Chief of Golden Dawn, Nikos Michaloliakos. There is a responsibility from an anti-fascist group - and good. It says in particular: 'No justice will be given to the courts of civil democracy'. And it continues, "They will have the answer required each time, by each fighter and fighter, and by any means deemed necessary". I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On May 15th. Invasion of a court to which the Golden Dawn case is avenged by individuals accused of terrorism. They dared these people, with this nerve, to enter the courtroom, to prey on those who were there, with the tolerance of the police, and to leave without anything. I read you the announcement they later sent: "The ones present at the Golden Dawn trial got a glimpse of the true justice awaiting them, the justice of the real anti-Fascist struggle, and not of the plastic trials." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. I shall proceed on 20 May. An informational action by the Piraeus local organisation at the Piraeus Peace Court, against the auctions carried out in our fellow people, has been preceded. They're taken by the big bankers. They went from the local Piraeus, reacted there, threw brochures and tried to show all over the world that we are with them and that we do not want to have the auctions of the houses of the Greeks. Result? The same afternoon an attack on the Local of Piraeus. The offices were saved because of the intervention of some present, who closed the doors and prevented and escaped the whole process. Piraeus Police Department's 100 meters. There was no induction. I'm tabling it for the Minutes, because there's a withdrawal for it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same afternoon, in our competitor's office at the Amarousio Amarousio, they put a powerful explosive device in place. The man hit bad. He's severely burned. Today he's doing the second surgery in order to get away with the worst. He'll need to stay in the hospital for at least a month. All these things are not heard, they are learned anywhere, none of you democrats are made aware of! Minister, you're here to hear all this stuff. And I guess you're listening to it from us. You obviously don't know them either, or if you know them, you haven't done anything. Points and monsters at the expense of the Golden Dawn! Nobody cares, nobody cares. Take responsibility for the attack on the particular gentleman's office I'm telling you about. They say: "Fascism is treated as it deserves and is appropriate, with organization and fighting, exercising the violence that we are fighting for. So for once, we decided to move on to the attack, putting our own stone in the multiformal crack of fascism." Nobody's bothered. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Last Sunday, at a legal event, normally, of the Golden Dawn, in the area of Volos, in the village of Domeni, in a room that was normally granted to us, it becomes the following: The people who go there first to get in to build the space are under terrorist paramilitary attack by hundreds of fifty archarchists, attacking them, besieged in the hall hall that had been assigned to us. We're seriously injured. The police, from 17.00 p.m. to 18.50 p.m., is absent. No one's interested in going over there. Besides, what did it matter if anyone was killed? They're fascists, but, Chrysayites, would anything happen? Did he care about any of you? Take responsibility after a while. People say here: "In the throttle they made, they tasted a few black-red scarves." Then one of them went through brief procedures at Volos Hospital. It boasts, people are proud of what they did! "They have come," he says, "EKAB, several fascists are injured and in hospitals". So, with great pleasure, all of this is being announced when you don't care about anything. And not just you don't care anything, it wouldn't have bothered you at all if something had happened. And they continue: "In a small rest of the siege they were given by dunks five minutes to leave." Here's what happened in Volos three or four days ago. Five minutes of the duke of whom? The Indians? The cowboys who went there to apply the order? All this is at the expense of the Golden Dawn. It's this Golden Dawn you've all targeted. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Outcome from all the little ones I've told you about? From the 6th of the month - it is 20 days that have taken place and I am not telling you about the previous ones, where signs and monsters have occurred - zero incests! Of course, zero arrests. Zero offers, Minister! No one was to blame for anything. Nobody was found guilty of anything! And everything has become well on the anti-Fascist front that all democrats have opened, from the extreme left to the right and fight the Golden Dawn in any way. They don't care the price. They don't care about the cost. You don't care! You're all morals. You're all here that's led the situation to get away from the permitted limits. You are all the previous Ministers of Public Order and the now, who have been subject to constant paramilitary and terrorist attacks, have denied police protection. Who is in danger here if the Members of the Golden Dawn are not in danger? Who are at risk if the Golden Dawn executives are not at risk? All the others have two, three or four policemen, and the Golden Dawn has nothing. We don't care. And if you think we'll be scared of it, or we'll stop saying what we think, I repeat, you're deeply mistaken. Everything will be said by this House Step by step, because we have not been given any other opportunity, we will see you from here. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] What is happening in democratic Greece is unthinkable. All of you look at them and sneeze them. At least you may not agree within them, but none of you have the courage to come out and blame for all the things that are happening. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. I would also like to say that none of the excerpts of the anti-constitutional arch in any of these cases that have also been made in the past did not produce a statement condemning the violence. So what does this look like? That all of you agree to the violence that exists against the Golden Dawn. You want it, you like it, and in the way you give you the right and the trigger to do all of this. Golden Dawn will not be subjected to flags. Golden Dawn will be here all the time. As long as the Greek people send us to the Greek Parliament, we will be against you, we will haunt your dreams and shout out about the law of Greece, about the law of the Greek citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u62	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u63	For the reports Mr. Rabbit has made, that we are all here as moral experts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u64	Do you think it was personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u65	Apart from staff, it is also an insult to the House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u66	You've been written to talk sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u67	No, I'm a rapporteur and I've spoken. But I think it's also an insult to the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u68	Okay, not dialogue with me. Mr Skouma, you think you were personally offended and you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, when Mr Rainbow refers to Parliament and the House in this way and considers all Members, the Minister, the Bureau, in any case, as moral experts in the attacks on the Golden Dawn, I believe that this omission escapes from every framework of operation and freedom of expression. I mean, I think it is a substantial insult and attack on democracy and, indeed, when we have the facts of the attack on Kyridal against witnesses who were going to testify at the Golden Dawn trial, which are very recently. I consider it unacceptable, unauthorised and insulting, by a man who said that he is a fascist here. That's what he said before the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u71	Wait a minute, 'cause they've taken the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much. First of all, man's lying and saying it in front of us. I never said I was a fascist. I said what has been said - and I gave it to the Minutes - to our detriment. Well, first of all, the gentleman's lying. Secondly, if I do not want to say what I said, that there is no guilt from everyone, let us know what one of the three hundred who are in here has done to condemn any of the attack we have taken. If there was a complaint from someone, a move from someone, any statement, I would go out and say that they are two hundred ninety-nine and that gentleman is not. All three hundred repeat - probably the two hundred eighty three - and I insist that they accept what is being done and agree. The Minister of Justice is next door. There has been no single induction, there has not been a single complaint about what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u73	Everyone has his opinion. The Bureau thinks that, in expressing the overwhelming majority of the Greek Parliament, it has its own view, which is quite different and, like everyone, we are judged by the Greek people. Mr. Alexander Hadjigeriou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the previous debate, we all condemn violence wherever it comes from. We do not accept that differences in roads will be resolved. We're democrats. Differences are resolved in courtrooms with the laws. Minister, on the issue of the bill I have to tell you this as a lawyer and I want to be very brief. First of all, as you know - the special speaker of our party has said - we are fully associated in the first place and we consider it necessary. It has started from the previous government, from the former honourable Minister, you have continued it, and you have done so very well. I would like to point out, however, as a lawyer, that you did not make a provision. In Article 272a, in verse (b), we say that preventive control must be completed and a positive payment is made. If it has not been positive for payment, a payment order may not be issued. Is that correct? With the amendment you say, 'the result of preventive control, where appropriate', and specific days appear in which this preventive control should be carried out and the result obtained. But the following question arises. Since the presumption is battled, there is a possibility that the order for payment will be filed within the time limit laid down by the law, that the result of the prudential review should not come after the opposition - because you state that in case the presumption of the preceding subparagraph is applied, the assistance of this condition can only be called into question by the opposition provided for in Article 272H - that the following must be done: that the judicial record is paid, that the performance is then paid, that there is no preventive control of negative - that there is no preventive control at all - that there is no ex post facto control of preventive control and that the Greek State is prevented from coming and that it must be claimed that there is a negative screening and that the order for payment should be rejected. In this case the court has been paid. Okay, the show anyway is paid for by the lawyer. But he pays the lawsuit and falls for the public. So you have to make a prediction. Or continue to apply the judiciary, i.e. the right of the citizen to come back - the natural or legal person to come back - with the same law or to return. I don't know if I made myself clear. It's a void we'll find in front of us. I come from the fighting law, and it's certain that a free court will be paid. Because the Greek State, in all likelihood, will not quickly carry out the result of the preventive review, the procedure will begin, the payment order will be issued on 30 days, the court will have been paid, and when the opposition is brought to bear, which will have produced the negative preventive control of the Greek State, the amount will have been lost, the outcome of the court. And that's unfair. You know, it's a problem that we often face in court. Many times justice is paid for. But here, it's clear. In other words, the combination of 272A and 272C, paragraph 5, results in this conclusion being safely concluded. I therefore believe that we have a chance to correct this in some way, either by returning the judicial mark, in the event that the fightable presumption with the opposition changes, that is, essentially, the result, and that preventive control was negative, or by allowing the natural or legal person to come back with the same judicial instrument. That was the only point I would like to make in the first place, as the Special Rapporteur said, we will support this bill because we believe it is in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Hadjimitriou, thank you for not even taking half your time. On the basis of those who have been written, ladies and gentlemen, to speak, along with the fact that no one has spoken of a parliamentary representative, whether we are going to be disciplined, at 16.30, at no later than 17.00, we will have finished and voted the bill at first. If, however, we have to finish at 7 p.m., there is one or two colleagues left, they will speak at first and on articles as usual with a tolerance of time. Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor. He's not there. I'm not erasing him. If we can let him know, but we won't waste any time. Mr Leonidas Gregorakos from PASOK has the floor. You're very summertime, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u76	And I once without a tie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u77	How does it look, you're going for a conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u78	We're coming to fashion yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u79	That's what I see!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, Mr President, a smooth parliamentary procedure. We need to know what's happening to us, because we've lost our T-shirt. It's okay, we know what we've done. We regret what we did. We will also regret other things, but what has happened to us with the President of the Parliament is unprecedented. That is why I said, Mr President, that we finally know what is going on today and that this House is finally ending 16.30 seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, after four months of a bill that actually has a positive sign, a bill that leaves all the ideas and comes to the time of realism, to strengthen the liquidity of the economy, because we all see what is going on in the last few years with the economy. There really is no "sallet" on the market and everything is exhausted. What has not changed yet - because the Greek people are tolerant - is that it still supports the government. It is difficult after three - four months to change one's vote. But the government here must take this seriously, because the country has come into a tragic situation. So we believe that this piece of legislation will bring about a quicker fulfilment of the financial claims of public creditors, as beneficiaries of liquidated financial claims will be given a direct enforceable title following procedures provided for in the bill, in an effort to restore the normality of the transaction and to stimulate the liquidity of the market. Because I participate as a Greek citizen, as a Member of Parliament, as a politician in everyday life, I would like to say that, in fact, all people in the market have been despaired, because the public is not a good customer. It owes too much to suppliers, to thousands of businessmen dealing with the state. I'll say something that you probably haven't calculated yourself. Currently the debts of hospitals are about three billion. This is a new memorandum. It's a difficult situation. Thus, this bill is positive because it will help some of these suppliers at the last minute to resupply hospitals with raw materials and the necessary and necessary materials for the operation of hospitals and, of course, for health. But it's not just health. There are too many people who are dealing with the state, and at the moment they are at a dead end, because on the one hand they are making various bills that they are protesting, because as you understand the banking system is not in a good phase. There are large unpaid debts in the middle of a problem economy that Greece currently has. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is good. However, because politics is the art of the practicable, I believe that the government must, as soon as possible, do its utmost to bring the agreement to an end. Why can't this negotiation paper keep moving. Because at some point you know, moving, moving, getting tired of our hand, but he's getting tired, too, watching us move his hand. Anyone who moves the hand has proved historically that in a very short period of time they will be in a different situation that cannot move their hand. Those who moved the hand and threw the citizens, the democracies, you know, this hand usually came down desperately and very quickly - desperately. I would like to make two comments. In the last few years, I see SYRIZA and ANEL's staffing potential being a pointless source of inspiration. Every day, the channels have us. Well, let the channels from the Greek Parliament make and broadcast for the executives of all parties, not just SYRIZA - of all of us. There are special television broadcasts, which live only from what Parliament presents. I will not name or advertise broadcasts, but it is impressive that there are specific programmes dealing with Parliament alone. I would like to say to my fellow Members that the contradictory statements are inconceivable for all of us. We must not have these contradictory statements to make sure that all of them are put out. Parliament must again take its prestige, and that is what we all have to do. I believe. Well. That the government must not sleep at all in the next few days. So that it can bring about an agreement that will be accepted by all of us. Because none of us in this Chamber wants the country to be in a bad situation. No one of us really wants the country to have no deal, no future. I mean, we didn't just scratch the bottom of the barrel anymore, asking for the money from farmers, from hospitals, from the insurance system. What the government needs to see is that the trade balance is suppressed. Primary surplus does not exist. Debt is growing. These must be the problems that concern her. What the government is coming to solve today is I think we are all agreed on and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. I am speaking for the second time to Mr Papachristopoulos, who is not present in the Chamber, and then to Mr Ioannis Karagiannis from SYRIZA, and immediately after a mutual transfer that has taken place, is followed by Mr Nikolaos Dendias. You have the floor, Mr Karayannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today comes to cover with the incorporation of European Directive 7/2011 the gap that exists in the long delays in paying private invoices from commercial transactions that they have with the public. For those requirements, no such procedure is provided for in the internal legal order. This Directive lays down a framework for the time-limits for payment of trade between the public and the undertakings concerned. Under Rule 35 of the Public Procurement Regulation, there are specific ways of paying suppliers from the State. Unpaid invoices for a long period after the end of their deadline create as they are known to be serious problems in the liquidity and financial management of businesses, which are already very burdened by the crisis, especially for small and micro-enterprises. Therefore, this draft law makes a significant contribution to improving business liquidity, to the proper functioning and stimulus of the internal market, to increasing competitiveness, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises, to the possibility of accessing the weakest to justice, but also to speed up its award, to strengthen entrepreneurship, to greater transparency and public awareness of the problem of late payments as a whole, to the cancellation of abusive terms and practices, to the ability of the Contracting Parties to agree a payment programme. The above will creatively contribute to the reversal of the already negative climate recorded for Greek entrepreneurship and as this is expressed by the European paying index, which says that 74% of enterprises predict that there is a risk of non-payment, 80% mentions zero growth, 68% that it does not intend to recruit staff, 82% does not see a positive climate for businesses. This, unfortunately, ranks our country in the second worst position since Italy, with regard to late payments in the European Union. All this is a consequence of the previous policies that we have experienced in previous years. According to a recent publication of “KATHEMERINI”, losses in the Greek economy since the delay in government payments to businesses as well as companies in transactions between them amount to 9% of the estimated 2014 Gross National Product. The economic crisis, of course, aggravated the situation specifically for the public debts to its suppliers, which, with conservative calculations, exceeded on average seventy-four days in the period 2008-2014. Even more problematic is the situation in trade between companies. As an economist, I have a full picture of what is happening on the market. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is clearly in a positive direction and is essentially a request from many Chambers of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Greek region. In my view, it goes without saying that this bill should be voted in favour. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please come to Stepma, Mr. Nikolaos Dendias. He has then asked for the floor - you will not speak to all the Members - Mr Georgiadis. If a second parliamentary representative wants to talk, he can speak. Then three colleagues will speak and then two parliamentarians will again. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor. You saw how I arranged it because of a neighborhood, Mr. Treasury, to speak before the parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, it is always beneficial to be a neighbour of power! Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to break the conscientiousness to this legislation, which I consider to be indifferent and to the symbolism of the provocative one. I would like to explain to you, first of all, by Article 1 (g) of the Treaty. 4152/2013, as has been said, the Directive 2011/7 on combating late payment in commercial transactions was incorporated into our national law, which is also the current legislation which is entitled: “Publication of payment order for claims by an administrative contract concluded in the course of trade”. Ladies and gentlemen, however, this piece of legislation falls short of the case-law already delivered. There are several lawyers in the Chamber and therefore there are well-known rulings, and judgment 369/2014 of the Ice Award and the judgment of the Supreme Special Court in this respect and the general reasoning contained in the judgment of the Ice Bay and the Supreme Special Court, as well as in the motions of the Judicial Body, which have been recorded and sent to the Minister present. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislation does not actually facilitate but makes it very difficult to issue a payment order. The conditions laid down, for example, by preventive control are essentially an obstacle to the satisfaction of the expedient's rights. And I have to say to those of you who are familiar with court practice that four different trials are actually introduced by this piece of legislation. First, the issue itself is 'just', from there on, the suspension procedure, opposition, legal means. All this leads to a completely incomplete procedure. If you do not add to this the preventive control and enforcement, it becomes clear that this legislation is simply toward the "Athens". Not at all, of course, it's not going to make it easier for trade. I'm not saying anything that is not known. What I'm saying is perfectly well known. What I am highly alpine, then, is why you are choosing to come to the National Representation at this juncture. And what's the juncture? The juncture is that in the last four months - we have already entered the fifth - the present government has literally dehydrated the market - the popular expression is 'insured' - by not paying the public's obligations, not only that, but also by not even paying the VAT paid, which alone is over 800,000 000 euros. The government, what it is doing at the moment, is leading 60 businesses to close every day, around the seven hundred private sector workers in unemployment every day and after it does all of this, without reaching agreement with the European partners, pretending to negotiate over four months, finally returns to the Greek society as an insult, by introducing legislation with which Greek society, to which none of the public's obligations are paid, gives it the opportunity to issue a payment order against the Greek public, after paying the court. And from there on, he certainly puts the public creditor, the man whom the public - and I forgive him for the popular expression - has "feeded" to a whole series of trials to be satisfied when the Greek courts decide to give him trial. The only good thing, of course, that was done in the course of the procedure through the legal correction is that in any case, the administrative court and the administrative court were ordered to issue this claim as a payment order. Ladies and gentlemen, we have kept a clear list of the ruling left-wing legislative work of the first hundred and twenty days. This work is absolutely challenging and nowhere else is as challenging as it is in the field of justice. For what remains at the moment as the intervention of the ruling left in the field of justice, what characterizes the ruling left in the field of justice, is not, of course, the order of payment against the public through this dreadful procedure. It is the obsolete piece of legislation (d.4322/2015) which can potentially lead to the release of terrorists and, in particular, only one terrorist. This is the concept of the ruling left for justice and it has been tabled here and it is a pity. I always say it's a shame, because the Left in Greece had spiritual sizes. People of great importance, people whose names decorate the chambers of the Law School of the University of Athens, such as the constitutionalist Alexandros Svolos, who have left texts and testimonies for the left perception in the administration of justice, no matter what this means. And the first time I ruled Left, the only thing that knows how to do for a hundred and twenty days is to bring us legislation on the release of terrorists and legislation on allegedly issuing a payment order against the public, when the other hand deprives the Greek economy of the resources necessary for its survival in a way that is completely abusive. So what I have to say is that this legislation is not even worthy of serious comment. I think that it is just the time of the National Representation for no reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u86	That means free movement of ideas within Parliament. I, in a way, have been pleased to see Mr Teddy differentiated from the official position of the New Democracy, because that means Parliamentary Republic. I'll call Mr. Harilao Jamakli. Then there are three parliamentary representatives, Mr Georgiadis, Mrs Gerovasilis and Mr Koutsoukos, three colleagues, the other Members of Parliament, if they wish and we will close with the last three colleagues, so that we do not "fly" the Members, speaking all seven of them in the intervening period. Mr. Jamaklis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I think you have quite rightly justified Mr Denktash's position, but I have the view that the succession race in New Democracy has probably begun. Let it be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u88	Now you're teasing me to hurt you and say that everyone you disagree with in SYRIZA, that is, you're questioning Mr. Tsipras' leadership?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u89	I say that, Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion deals with adapting national legislation to the European Parliament Directive 2011/7, which deals with combating late payment in commercial transactions and aims to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market to enhance the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, the Directive lays down an obligation to ensure the possibility of issuing an enforceable title within 90 days. It is therefore an obligation for our country to introduce a framework regulation on the rapid issue - in any case within 90 days - of an enforceable title on actions or applications for non-disputed claims arising from an administrative contract concluded in the course of trade, which are governed by this directive. The draft law therefore covers a huge legal gap in our legal system, since the internal legal order does not provide for such a procedure, contrary to the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure for the issue of a payment order for commercial transactions arising from private contracts. The coverage of this legal vacuum is of enormous practical importance, taking into account the following: First, the number of administrative contracts, in particular works contracts, supply of goods and services between small and medium-sized enterprises on the one hand, and public or private entities or legal entities on the other. Secondly, the well-established state of the delay of payments by the counterparties of small and medium-sized enterprises, due to a poor culture, bureaucratic claws, masters of the Court of Auditors, formal errors of tenders or awards, and many other reasons. Thirdly, because of the financial crisis, the banks' refusal to lend money to small and medium-sized enterprises, which, due to the delay in payments, are facing liquidity problems, having already paid VAT for their sales and for their services. This reality has negative consequences, such as the decline or closure of many small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the province, small sizes and the corresponding small economic size of administrative contracts. This effect is directly reflected in the growth of unemployment, in the reduction of tax revenue, in the reduction of the incomes of insurance funds, in the instability of the view that the public service contractors are unreliable and therefore inconsistent in transactions - this certainly does not serve the public interest - the refusal of small and medium-sized enterprises to trade with public bodies. Imported regulation is absolutely necessary since the small and medium-sized businessman acquires a legal weapon in order to speed up the payment of the debts. Minister, I have two points to make. The first is that you have accepted, in my opinion, the good comments made by both the Members of the committee responsible and the bodies invited to it. This is your honor and must be recognized. The second concerns the fact that administrative justice is severely ill. I am referring to the reality of quasi-denialism, particularly in the primary administrative courts. The causes are well known and thousands of them. Supporting, small number of administrative prototypes, lack of logistics. I believe that it should be a matter of priority that all of this should be lifted, because justice and administrative is a pillar of democracy, or at least that should be defined, and because the country and for budgetary reasons it needs to be done quickly and correctly. The primary concern, therefore, of your Ministry, must be the establishment of administrative prototypes in each county capital. I presented the present situation to the Committee at the Administrative Court of Thessaloniki, in which Pieria, Kilkis, Halkidiki and the Prefecture of Thessaloniki are located. Now, in the year 2015, complaints and appeals 2005 and 2006 are to be heard at first instance, i.e. they are to be heard after ten or nine years. In this respect, Minister, I believe that the legislation is fragmentary and I look forward to your initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Jalakli. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. I have distracted you from the pleasant company with Mrs Asmakopoulou, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President, but you have given me the company of this House, which is even more pleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u92	No, you'd let him fall down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u93	Mr Minister, first of all on the bill, I think our rapporteur has been properly placed. This bill is basically a legislative initiative by the previous government with very small changes. It comes to incorporate a Community directive in Greece and, above all, to me, it is also our Memorandum of Understanding. It is extremely interesting that we are slowly meeting on the large streets of the memorandum. And it is very pleasant, because in the previous Parliament, in the previous composition and only Mr Athanasios mentioned as the Minister for Justice of the Government of Samara as our Memorandum of Understanding, it would be a sufficient and necessary treaty for SYRIZA to say 'no'. However, this brings life, change things and we now meet on the great avenue of the European road, where, as the German Finance Minister, Mr Varoufakis, has said today, 'we cannot follow without a memorandum'. Of course, Mr President, I would like to welcome today's public acceptance of the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, who, when entering the Ministry of Finance, wants to tell the journalists what is happening with the negotiations and with the VAT, said: 'The troika won't let us!' It is extremely pleasant that Mr Yanis Varoufakis today finally called the Brussels Group with his real name. Because, of course, the Brussels Group is nothing but the troika. It is the troika and what you are now trying to do is to complete the fifth evaluation of the memorandum. This is all very pleasant, Mrs Gerovas and colleagues, because we have lived together with Parliament's previous composition, where when we were talking about a troika, a memorandum or an evaluation, around here we were told 'German giraffes','sheep' and 'girls'! So now we also have with the public assumption of our beloved Yianni with a "ni", who revealed that this "bad" Troika, to do what it wants. So since the 'bad' does not leave him, the troika does not let him do what he wants, it goes on to say that it has not abolished the 'bad' the troika. Despite his previous spectacular public statements he finds it constantly in front of him and with this "bad" the troika must finally come to an understanding and go further. However, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no bills such as today, so that the country can take the next step forward. It is very good today's bill, solves a problem, creates a faster process in relations between people. But to talk about payment orders and economic relations between people, the first necessary treaty is to have an economy. And in order for there to be an economy so that we can talk about payment orders, there must be a deal. And for there to be an agreement - according to Yianni's public admission today, with a 'n', Varoufakis - there should be consultation with the troika. So what is New Democracy telling you? The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, invites you to follow the example of this bill - I stress this - the Minister of Justice. And I say on this bill, that is, the implementation of the memorandum, why? Because Mr. Paraskevi, unfortunately, has in his brief, ministerial term, the great problem of the Xeros deportation bill. In this case, he also saved you as Minister personally and the government of Mr. Tsipras, but the main rescued Greece, the "religious" of Savva Xiros, who did not agree to take the bracelet. Because if Savvas Xiros took the bracelet, you know very well that today our country would have ceased diplomatic relations with the United States of America.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Georgiadis, I'm sorry. Before you continue for Xero's religion, and because I know you're sensitive to children, I want to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and three school attendants from the Municipal School of Mesaria Thera, from the beautiful Santorini. The House welcomes you and especially me because I am a Cycladic. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please continue, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u95	Welcome! The word "religious" means putting it in introductory form. I meant religious beliefs, which I particularly respect. But the point is, he didn't take the bracelet. That's what he had the stuff. Also, Minister of Justice, since you are here, I would like to ask you another question. We were in this Chamber in this debate on German allowances and the committee's recommendation, when you announced that you would consider whether you would suspend your previous decision of the predecessor of your Minister of Justice, in relation to the execution of the judicial decision of the Dictator's victims. And then you were applauded by your SYRIZA colleagues for the bravery of your proposal and especially by Mrs Constantopoulos. We, of course, said that these are difficult decisions and they want attention. But they have passed away from that public position of yours about four months. So, I would like to ask you, to see if the applause you made on that day was right or wrong, if you have reached a decision. Have you moved on to consider this matter? Or was it a verbalism, which was put in the Chamber in sight - will you allow me to express - a new Greek maniac and, of course, have you forgotten, now that things have tightened up? I want to know what you have done, because then it was a public position in the Greek Parliament of the Minister of Justice Mr. Paradise that he will consider this matter. I want to know if there has been progress and if you continue to look into it or reject it, so that these people also know what they have to expect from you. I'm actually coming back to the point. To make sense of this bill - I repeat - there must be a national economy. In order for there to be a national economy, there must be an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I want us all to be informed. Then you raved to take authority. Undone! We were here in this House, where Mr. Tsipras has been asking for elections since September every day. From the Stepma this said: "I send a message in October 2014 in Berlin, Brussels and Washington that whatever agreement Samaras will sign, I do not recognize it." When the presidential election was called, he said: "Finally, a proper government decision!" Your main ideological position is, do not apply the fifth evaluation and do not apply the mail Hardouvel. You come now, four months later and you're about to tell us that the previous government framed you with strangers in a liquidity cage when you asked for elections every day, that it framed you because it set you up for two months, when you asked for an extension of neither twenty-four hours, and when you said you didn't want Hardouvelis mail, you are now discussing - according to how Hardouveli was leaking into the press - measures about five times the Hardouveli mail. I would remind my fellow Members that Hardouvelis had measures of a total yield of 1 billion, the plan given ten days ago to Junker, which Mr Papadimoulis welcomed with passion as a good plan, provided for measures of 5 billion. So you have to do what you have to do, since you wanted power and quickly finish the uncertainty that exists in the Greek economy. The Greek economy cannot continue with statements of the Baroufakis type, which at 11.00 in the morning announces a VAT tax on takeovers, at 1.00' at noon he withdraws his idea of the eleventh morning, or the unrealistic, being Mr. Varoufakis on Mr.Varoufakis' show, to analyse the new VAT system with 18% and 15% and the cards, to ask Mr. Hadjikolaou if he has the approval of the Troika, to answer for himself "perfect, all perfect, all regulations!", all Greece and the accountants and all businessmen and people who are concerned about what the government's plan will say about their lives, so that two, three hours later, because in the end, Mr. Varoufakis did not have the approval of the troika. These are not serious things! You must understand, at last, that you have won the election, you have not become tyrants of our lives. Elections and we won in the past, and then we lost, and then we won again. Governments are coming and going. The country remains. You are therefore taking responsibility for the country and you cannot play with this country with Baroufakis-type tricks, who disguises himself thirty-seven times a day. You'll have to be serious. The New Democracy invites you to end this uncertainty, bringing as far as possible an agreement today. Bring, if possible, and today an agreement, to see, at last, what you have achieved in these four months of your terrible, heroic negotiation, to measure in practice the result, what this terrible plan you had! This plan, ladies and gentlemen, has taken the following course. Once you were elected, you told us that you were seeking a bridge deal. When we told you that a bridge agreement is not meant to be in the memorandum and you need to close the evaluation to get money, you replied to us 'we don't want the money'. After a month and a half, when you understood that you wanted the money, you changed it and said "we will make a partial payment of the dose". When we told you that part of the dose was not provided and you had to close the evaluation, you told us internal troika. Now you tell us that you want a single agreement, that is what Samaras and New Democracy have been telling you since the first day you were elected, a single agreement. You lost four months to understand that what we told you you had to do on January 26th is what you want to do now. But finish it anyway! Anyway, finish it! You play with people's lives. The national economy has flown into the recession. Every day they now close operations from where they open up. Unemployment is again growing from where it fell. In tourism there is enormous uncertainty. I was in Lassithi a week ago with my friend Yiannis the Placiotakis and we were informed by the Chamber of Commerce and Hotel that, if they don't have an agreement by the end of this month, they can't book packages for the next year and Greek tourism will remain outside the next tourist market because you can't do your job! At last, you're finished! You cannot hold the Greek economy hostage and you cannot hold the Greek people hostage! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be right back, Mr. President. We hear with horror a number of huge ruptures. Of course you can't break. First of all, you cannot break because you do not have the right, you have not received such a mandate from the Greek people. The Greek people have promised the euro without a memorandum. Nor did you tell him about a break, nor about a drachma, you told him, nor about a hunger inhabitant, nor about any of it. So you don't have that order. Secondly, you do not have the opportunity. Because if you broke out on 20 February, you'd have 10 billion dollars, which you've paid, in the funds to take the next day's drugs, fuels, and the first-demand items so that the population doesn't starve. If you break now that the Greek State has not even 100 euros, the hunger that will fall will be to see dead on the streets. So leave the funny ruptures and the magnificence of the left platform, the left wing, the left component or whatever you call it. You have only one command: to keep Greece in the Eurozone with a better deal than the one we had achieved. Obviously, as far as the best deal is concerned, you have failed and you cannot. This is over. At least keep Greece in the Eurozone. Uncertainty. The Greek economy cannot stand any more uncertainty! Take an example from today's draft law by the Minister of Justice, who took the memorandum and brought it to Parliament and made it law. Do this and generally, so we can move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Gerovali, do you think you've asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u97	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u99	We should do the graces to the Minister. He obviously wants to answer a specific question. I, Minister, say that you are lucky in the sense that good words are the many. So look until the end of the sitting, if there are any proposals that further improve it, you can accept them. A wider consensus should be given to the bill. You have the floor. How much time do you want? Three minutes enough for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u100	Three minutes is enough. Thank you, Mr President. I also thank you for the recommendation. After all, there are so many comments and thoughts from Members that I have accepted so far, which has shown that we are already on the road you are proposing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u101	That's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u102	Of course, with a lot of sobriety, with great care, I have so far heard three New Democracy MPs, because they have nothing to say about the bill, attack me on various aspects of my very brief political biographic. I have four months now, and that is why I have to say something, Mr President. I'll tell you first about the Distomo statement. My statement said that I was ready to sign, but provided that the net of the legal problems that exist had been resolved before. Also since the House will have dealt with the subject of the previous negotiation, which is also required by the Court of Justice in The Hague. In particular, the terms of my statement were two, that a political negotiation would take precedence and that legal issues would be resolved. These conditions are not infinite, but they are not short-term. On the question of the release of terrorists, what I want to say is this. Firstly, the Greek Constitution and Greek laws do not deal with people's naturalities, they deal with acts. I do not know that anyone has been released for terrorism to date. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the bill summarised as Xero's liberation results in about a thousand people, on the basis of this bill, being freed, namely that our congested prisons have a population of one thousand smaller because of the application of this law. I hope that fair release from sentence, fair liberalisation, dismissal of a thousand people is not a negligible issue for those who spoke before. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u104	Mr Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute and don't ask me for a second, because there is no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u105	Not half, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u106	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u107	As regards the first thing the Minister has said, three New Democracy Members have not dealt with the bill so much, I will say that you are right, Minister - and I have told you from the beginning - since it is our bill. It's the bill Mr. Athanasios had submitted, as Minister of Justice, in a word. What criticism should we make in a bill of our own? The impressive thing is, when we filed it, this is where we were being sworn. Now, how does the side that found us to table it now as its own bill, that's all you know. So the first one explains. On the second point, I very much respect the clarification of the Bistom. But, on that day, there was a celebratory mood for SYRIZA Members, namely that SYRIZA came to power and the brave Minister of Justice - in relation to previous ministers, who were not brave - is ready to do what the previous ministers did not dare. What you're saying is what everyone else said. So the Greek people understand the real expectations, what the show is - because it was about the show at last, as we understood - and what the essence is. I would like to welcome you, however, in fact, because your statement today is the right one. That's the real position. Such a major issue cannot be solved by the Minister of Justice to show the House, but only solved after political negotiation and a serious decision. In that sense, I congratulate you. As regards the third, for the thousands released, we will see, Minister, these thousand released what will now do in their lives, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u108	That's irrelevant to the bill under discussion. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u109	...and not if they were released. Because if we take it that way, we close the prisons and get everybody out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u110	I'll add one more thing. The Minister has said something else that he is not his personal policy and view, he would also be carrying out a government policy, beyond the two reasons you have just said. I'll fill it out, Minister. Mrs Gerovalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss another legislative initiative by the Ministry of Justice on a day when the eyes of all of us really are in the process of negotiating with the partners and lenders, which is in the final straight. The eyes of all of us are on the ground. And yours are, Mr Georgiadis, I noticed that, except Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u112	So much love for Mr. Treasury!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Dendias has the gaze on the succession race of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u114	Will you vote for him as Chief?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u115	Let me comment. Don't laugh. It's not funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u116	Tell us about the negotiation and leave Mr. Treasury alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u117	Please, Mr. Georgiadis. Mrs. Gerovassili heard you quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u118	I heard you carefully. So we have seen Mr. Dendia here today describe the bill to which the New Democracy consents. She thinks it's hers. All these are arguments used by many speakers and by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. For Mr. Teddy, it is indifferent and within a juncture where it seems provocative. Therefore, you neither have internal competition nor have any components of it. That's all the others have. In any case, the deadlocks of the New Democracy cannot be resolved in this political context, with the political deadlocks of counter-population. Nevertheless, each one's ambitions are legitimate. In any case, all of us, as well as the Greek people, are committed to a negotiation that is taking place for the interests of the Greek people, which requires a sustainable solution of long breath and not an agreement that will quickly bring us to the formerly known deadlocks. Our goal, you know, is not as it used to be, i.e. coming to us an e-mail, signing it, getting the dose, finishing and moving forward. Our aim is to spend the next day, to pass in the future, to move on to growth, to legislate and serve what the Greek people really need today. So far, the country is being financed for debt. We all know that. It is financed to pay off instalments rather than to survive or develop. This should be reversed. We could, as many - and many are still urging - conclude an agreement at present, whatever agreement, whatever it may be. We could have done it from February and done it. Along with this, however, the country and the citizens and the Greek people would have finished. This whole trimester is unfolding a hard and painful process, but that's exactly how it should be. We know that everyone's limits are being tested and, above all, the Greek people's limits are being met. However, it is very important that what should be agreed is not to agree on what is inappropriate and as. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to this negotiation with the support of Greek citizens, even those who did not vote for us in the elections. We have come with sincere, honesty and sincere desire to find a compromise. But we also came with our ally cold numbers, so fascinated by some when they talk about them. For June alone, the country's lending obligations towards the IMF amount to EUR 1.4 billion and the mortgage bills to EUR 5.2 billion. By the end of August, credit commitments total EUR 23 billion. You realise that these amounts are in favour - multiples of wage and pension costs. They are not at all comparable to the 200 million that this government has been able to put in response to the humanitarian crisis. However, this government has so far fully complied with its obligations. What I wanted and what we all wanted was for the country to continue to fulfil its obligations, with its partners, of course, to behave equally against a country that is an equal member of the European Union, to be on the table and to make an agreement that is for the mutual interest, as it must be an agreement between partners. Ladies and gentlemen, some in Europe do not want the honest compromise that the government is seeking. On the contrary, building on the theorem of the left parentheses, they place obstacles, traps and artificial deadlocks and, unfortunately, they find imitators within the country. For there are those within the country who, while the Greek Government is negotiating in the name of the Greek people and in the future of the country, prove kings of the king. They have already cost the agreement, which no one has ever seen and signed, and how many times they are above 'e-mail Hardouvelis'. As a charming person said somewhere, we will listen to Greece "Hardouvelis" and everyone will think that Hardouvelis is an e-mail and not a person. They are therefore the voice of lenders in this country. They support their interests and do everything they can to create a climate of instability and panic for the citizens, of course helping many of the systemic media. They are those who hope that through such methods and tactics they will become Caliphs again at the place of Caliph. Unfortunately, they do not understand that all together, in practical terms and in design, undermine the efforts of the government and the Greek people, they also undermine the common European structure. They undermine democracy and the European vision. Nevertheless, the government continues its work, negotiates abroad and legislates internally, in an effort to restore normality in Greek society and the Greek economy. This is also the draft law we are discussing today. We all know and above all know that the people of the market, the small and medium-sized businessmen, are aware that there are pathogens that afflict the Greek economy. One of the long-term problems of the private sector - not the only one, of course - is delaying payments, when companies trade with the public. The procedure for checking the liquidation of the claim is many times time-consuming and bureaucratic. The private investor did not, however, have any legal weapon in order to speed up the payment of the amounts due. These delays, of course, could be fatal for the liquidity and viability of a business and affected its competitiveness. The Government, therefore, in the context of strengthening the liquidity and competitiveness of enterprises, has tabled this draft law in order to help the smooth functioning of the internal market. It should be noted that these requirements were not provided for until now in the Greek legal order. On the other hand, the specific procedure provided for in Article 623 of the Code of Civil Procedure for issuing a payment order could be applied from the corresponding commercial transactions governed by private law. Under the arrangements of this draft law private individuals whose State owes them money under an administrative contract in the context of a commercial conciliation, they are entitled, by issuing the payment order, to claim the prompt liquidation of the claim, as it would almost be if the debtor were also a private person. Also, with this bill, the country fulfils its obligation towards the European Union and in particular adapts Directive 7/2011 of the European Union to national legislation. According to it, claims relating to unambiguous claims by individuals must be treated in exceptional circumstances, irrespective of the amount of the debt, as soon as possible. This regulation therefore leads to a legislative gap in terms of administrative contracts and the possibility of issuing a payment order. From this point of view, the regulation is also important in order to ensure the financial requirements of individuals. Mr Minister, it has been pointed out and accepted - and you have spoken about it before - by the legal improvement that the jurisdiction to issue a payment order must be delegated to the judge of the only individual appeal before whom the opposition is brought as a matter of fact. That is because, on the one hand, the judges of the appeal are familiar with the concepts of administrative contracts, which serves the speed in issuing the order for payment, and, on the other hand, because in the first instance, the largest amount of administrative cases is pending in the courts. This fact does not help with the speed of checking and issuing the payment order. Please note that the administrative appeals are dealt with in cases of administrative contracts filed only in 2014. Therefore, the judges at the court hearing the cases in question are not as overloaded as their former colleagues. The new regulations thus enshrine a rapid, unilateral and citizen-friendly process. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a bill that gathered support for almost all of the parties to the Opposition, and that is because everyone recognises that there were typical but also substantial reasons for the adoption of a law with this content. It has been heard that this draft law results from the commitments of the Medium-term Stability Pact. It has also been heard - and it is true - that the previous government has drawn up a similar draft law. We have heard today and Mr Athanasios that the bill has the ideological and political mark of New Democracy. Now, if the New Democracy, in order to support a bill proposed by the government, needs to baptize it in the swim of neoliberal ideology or whatever it wants, we allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u119	Since there's the previous plan, you can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u120	I am talking about the arguments of your rapporteur. I'm not talking about any more. Otherwise, common sense, the need for support for small and medium-sized enterprises and adapting to the European directive are our own priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of whether there is a Memorandum of Understanding, is there anyone in this Chamber or outside the market who does not claim that the public should be consistent with private counterparties? I think that touches the simple logic of all those who want to see reality. Is there anyone who does not know that the delays in public debt payments make it difficult for the market to function properly, and they are burdening small and medium-sized enterprises? We should therefore make this arrangement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A well-known procedure has already been adopted in the legal world, the procedure for issuing a payment order. That is why we also call on those who were reserved in the debate to support this bill. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the elections on 25 January, and in particular the unresolved consequences of the government, with the left, to what has previously been committed, are a station, not only for our country but also for the whole of Europe. We are already experiencing rapid political developments in the wider European area. The former state alliance of neoliberal forces that led to social and economic progress in Europe in a dead end begins to isolate itself. I wanted to say 'to weaken'. The word 'isolated' would be heavy! It is weakened because it has become clear now that the neoliberal road is not a one-way path, it is a dead end. I would remind you of the political change that took place in Spain in the recent self-government elections. The wind of change is drowning in Greece. The wind of change is blowing over Spain. Europe is changing. It's changing slowly, steady, but it's changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u121	Mr Koutsoukos, PASOK Parliamentary Representative, has also spoken. I'm calling him at the Step. Two colleagues will then be intervened. And if another parliamentarian asks why, I will give it to him. And we're going to close down with the remaining four colleagues. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today a bill that enables us to overcome the false divisions of the memorial and antimony, with which some became power and to which Mr Georgiadis rightly referred earlier, but forgetting that he was also the New Democracy - which he represents today - a part of the antimony movement that was then brought together in the squares of the "Indignanted" and created this division among the Greek citizens. And today comes the harsh reality to prove that the real problems go beyond these false divisions. This will unite the time when the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will bring here - as we hope and expect - the country's survival and euro survival agreement, given that there is no other way to go. This is the requirement of the Greek people. With this program he went down to the election. That's the order. Ladies and gentlemen, the substance of the bill would say that it has an internal contradiction, which would lead us to make a number of comments, of a comical nature, if they did not involve tragedy within them. What do I mean? I mean, with the bill today, we are giving the opportunity to implement a directive, continuing with the work of the previous Minister for Justice, who set up the Legal Affairs Committee, so that the ordinary citizen who is not paid by the public today - because the public as he is well-known has declared a stop to payments - the possibility of issuing a payment order. In other words, the government which has declared a domestic attitude of payments brings the bill that enables those who are not paid to seek necessary measures, by ordering payment and confiscation of public property. We wish this bill at this stage not to be exploited by the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises who have received from the public, whether they are micro-workers, or public suppliers. We hope that the government will close an agreement that will ensure the elementary liquidity, stability and then talk about the development and exit of the country from the Memorandum. That's our wish. The other would be tragic, to vote today on a bill to make use of those who are not paid by the public, with the responsibility of the government itself that brings this legislation. As far as the substance of the legislation is concerned, the rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, has, I believe, been fully placed, and I do not need to add anything else. After all, our attitude in a series of bills, here in Parliament, shows that we have nothing to do with quality, with the attitude taken by the Anti-Civilisation and especially the Democrat Opposition, when there were in the past by the governments that we supported such initiatives, whether they were administrative changes, or deeper reforms, transparency measures and so on. Then everything was denounced as memorial policies against the people. We have a very different attitude, a attitude of responsibility, and it will be in the expectation that the government will come here to discuss the content of the agreement. For, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, but Mrs Constantopoulou has told us many times too - she has referred to her programme statements - about the need for Parliament to evolve into a leading institution of democracy, such as from the country's Charter, here to strike the political life of the country, here to make decisions. I would like to tell you that Mr Venizelos has asked the Prime Minister four topical questions to come to Prime Minister's time and tell us about the negotiation, but this has not been done. We have also called on Mr Varoufakis to submit to us the documents accompanying the ratification of the main financial agreement, in order to see what commitments the country has made. And we have also asked to come here to discuss the Eurogroup's decision of 20 February, the one with the known ambiguities, which were then interpreted by the Government as breaking the memorandum, and their real content is that the government has made commitments on the basis of the memorandum. So these have not come to be discussed in the House. I do not want to degrade the essence of today's debate on this particular subject at all. But, ladies and gentlemen, look at where the heart of society is today, what is the question that the ordinary citizen will ask you when you leave this Chamber and walk on any path in Athens? The question is where is the country going and whether it will close or not? And that is not the case in Parliament. However, this is the issue that also concerns the last Greek citizen and, if you like, the Central Committee of the SYRIZA, which has been discussing for a two-day period, and which concerns the public dialogue, the media, and that is the issue raised by Mr Tsipras, asking the Minister of Finance, Mr Lew, for his contribution to the G7 meeting to speed up an agreement procedure. And Mr. Lew is coming today and tells Mr. Tsipras that time is up and we have to sign. Look out! We have seen the pro-Atlantic spirit of the government all these years through Mr Varoufakis and the top ministers of the government, with the exception of Mr Kammenos, who gives land and water, gives foundations, gives exploitation of the islands, free economic zone, etc., and with Mr Tsipras, who communicates with Mr Obama, the Minister of Finance, etc. All of these, of whom the pro-Atlantic front within the SYRIZA believes that we will take the help towards the 'bad' Europeans, come and say 'close an agreement'. We're living the theater of irrationality. I'm not saying, well Mr. Tsipras is doing, and he's smiling in front of the cameras, exchanging compliments with Mrs. Merkel. However, we are living the theatre of the irrationality Mr. Tsipras has found it with the "good" Mrs. Merkel and the "bad" Mr. Symble, who comes and says today that we cannot take both of them, namely, money and not have a deal, not to undertake any obligations. The country is on the edge of the cliff. As the Minister of State said, coming to the committee where he discussed the question of ERT, 'the world is burning us...'. So we in this House have no official information, and we are not involved in any process of taking these critical decisions, and that is the central political issue. So we are now hearing that, within the weekend, an agreement is being drawn up, including in the short term financial instruments, so that the country will not be able to make a payment stop, as the top ministers say. Look, top government ministers, Mr. Lafazanis, Mr. Army, Mr. Voutsis, say we should not pay. And we hear that an agreement is being prepared, by order of Mr Tsipras to the negotiators, which will be completed within the weekend in order to have an elementary liquidity and the difficult ones, the memorandum will go back. In fact, there is also information on an act of legislation to exceed, says, the government's resistance to SYRIZA Members. Are these serious things? There's a declarant. This declaration must be ratified every time in the difficult decisions that this House is called upon to take. And we have said that the "little" PASOK will not give hand to the SYRIZA side if the declared one is to be questioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the people did not elect a committee of inquiry, as Mr Papadimoulis well said, to tell us about elections and referendums. He chose you to rule. And to take responsibility for your decisions. If you think your back does not lift that responsibility, there is a road, the path of resignation. But society requires you to make decisions and get the country out of the deadlock. Because following Mrs Gerovas, whom I personally appreciate, I have heard that she has referred to the vision of this period, the government to take the country out of the deadlock and take us to other streets. We agree. That's the pursuit. But this first passes through the stabilisation of the economy. Because no one comes to put a nail when he hears conflicting views like Mr. Varoufakis's last morning that we're going to put a trade tax on ATM and at night, when they pulled his ear, get them back. No one will invest in this country when the government tells him that we have driven the troika and talked to the institutions, and this morning Mr Varoufakis - we were worried that he hadn't spoken by noon - he told us that the troika is the one that requires taxing the ATMs. No one can open a retail shop, when they do not know what the income tax, VAT will be, whether they will pay with credit cards, whether they will have bonuses, whether they will be followed by rubi tourists, etc. This landscape must be undone in order to have the necessary stability, as a precondition for jobs and growth. And then we should go to progressive policies, Mrs Gerovas, so let us see how we are going to tackle ideologically and politically - all of us - towards Greek society, what are the progressive alliances that are capable of integrating and completing such policies. Because, obviously, you have an unprecedented alliance with a section of the extreme right, which left the right when it decided to come on the right path, i.e. leaving from the logic of the antimony struggle and which is the vehicle of the most reactionary ideology that exists today in this place. So try a progressive policy here, for example for immigration, for cohabitation, try it out, see where your privileged partners will go. So progressive policies with this alliance and on this line cannot exist. And that's what people need to know. You are the managers of an anti-immemorial bloc created by chance on the basis of the problems faced by the Greek state, you are the ones who have given forgiveness to those who have led the country to bankruptcy. That is why you do not accept in the Committee of Inquiry, not just to extend the period from 2000 or from 2004 or whenever you like, but not to come to testify by the former Prime Ministers, and to protect who? Mr. Papandreou or Mr. Karamanlis? Tell us about it! We also have a very clear view of your targets, your pursuits. But because the country is now hanging on a thread, we invite you to make your decisions, bring them here to Parliament, discuss them. And we tell you that we in a position of responsibility will be placed in a process and an agreement that will not ensure a few days' viability for the Greek economy and some minimal liquidity, but in an agreement that also has the prospect of the next day. Because we need to think about what the prospect of the next day should be, apart from earning time, a few days, whether it is about a small dose or a relative liquidity from ELA. This is what Greek society demands. We will insist on this, despite the fact that no one has listened to us in the election, believe you, election and post-election lies. But unfortunately, it's time for the truth. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u123	After Mr Koutsuku's infamous speech, I must say that - because he has implied for the good right he has left - that there are people within this right-wing right who do not agree with the policy of '10' and with your view of the Europe of today. Without questioning Mr Theocharis' innate courtesy, I would ask him to intervene and then give him the floor. Mr. Dimitris Emmanoulidis should come to Stepma from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the end it is good. I have listened very carefully to Mr Adonidus and Mr Koutsoukos and I will be very interested in mapping the context of these positions. When I taught literature, a particularly interesting chapter was overrealism. The delusional reason for Mr Adonidos is the epitome of political surrealism. And, Mr Kutsuko, if I had to score your report, I am sorry, but it was all out of the question. Our subject is quite specific and I have timed the position on it. It was a minute and a few seconds, and the rest of the time was exhausted, trying to disintegrate yourself, incriminating SYRIZA for this short-lived year of governance. On one occasion, Mr Koutsouko, we have a tabled reality, on the other we have a nebulous thought of casandra prophecy, which is unfortunately not verified for you. And it does not seem to be true that the judge of all this political beggar is society, it is the people, who despite the fact that it is lagging - because that is the reality - has turned the face to the political formations that have prevailed over all previous years, which omited me or - most importantly - by means of decisions condemned society. In this case, you do not care for any special function in political life, but also in society, with these desperate attempts to prosecute from above historical responsibilities and historical guilt. I come to this point, so that I, too, do not consider myself out of the question, saying that this bill is nothing more than the realization of reasonable dictation and the return, I would say, to the normality of economic life. Being the public, in its broad sense, an insolvent contractor, in that relationship between public and private, is not the most efficacious interlocutor, it is a deficit for the regularity of public life. This has been the case all previous years, as it was the bad debtor. In this case, this is cured, in the sense that by shortening and limiting the time to repay the contractual obligations, I think that it is doing nothing but accepting the corporate responsibility it has, as a other contracting party and facilitating to the required extent this normality and the functioning of economic life, which is already not at its best over this entire period. I am surprised that while all the wings in fact accepted this joint finding, the thing in this bill is about the rationality and regularity of dealing with the issue, the representative of the Communist Party of Greece I think objected to normality on a point that reminds me of the "male Lakepemonies". Ladies and gentlemen, when things are driven by common sense and dictated by it, we cannot rape it. Finally, in some things, at a minimum level, I think we can and should agree. Now, as to whether the eye is closed to the large construction houses or whether they care about the middle or weak businessman, I think that life itself answers. Finally, we must give the minimum oxygen to these people, who every day play the economic survival of the crown - letters. I believe that this bill cures, as I have said before, normality in economic life. It's not alone enough. It is, however, a first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr Emmanuelides. However, political surrealism has its charm. You can't say!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u126	Definitely!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u127	Mr Spyridon Lappas has the floor, and then the Parliamentary spokesman for the River, Mr Theocharis Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion indeed has one particular feature. I would say that it is strict legal literature and philosophy, and I think only the lawyers can understand and perhaps experience the goal and provisions of the bill. This bill essentially transfers the institution of the payment order from the Code of Civil Procedure, i.e. from the field of civil disputes, and in the field of administrative disputes. After all, it is express reference to the Code of Civil Procedure, to 623 next, as well as to the explanatory statement, and that is what it does. As most of them have been said about the bill, I would like to say two things about what the institution of the payment order is, so that it can be understood by colleagues who are not legal. Firstly, the introduction of the payment order as a form of legal protection has as a basic objective the rapid equipment of the lender with an enforceable title, which also means the rapid satisfaction of his claim. Second, it must be pointed out that, in the procedure for issuing a payment order, the courts are exempted from a large number of cases of diagnostic proceedings and the costs are significantly reduced and the costs of the proceedings are reduced. This is precisely what Costas Bes, Minister, points out in the analysis and interpretation of Article 623 et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure. Thirdly, it should be noted that the payment order procedure does not literally constitute any special diagnostic procedure. It's not even a diagnostic process. The procedure for issuing a payment order shall not be considered to be either disputed or of voluntary jurisdiction. It is, however, a procedure for the provision of legal protection, which is provided for and regulated by the Code of Civil Procedure, as I have already said. This procedure is not compulsory for the lender concerned - to stress this - it is not affected by the judicial holidays and cannot be ruled out by a creditor and debtor agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Lappa, before you go on, I'd like to make a 30-second announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u130	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and eight educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u132	Fourthly, Mr President, the order for payment according to the main purpose of its adoption and against a catalyst of the law, as you know, ladies and gentlemen from the Code of Civil Procedure in 631, 904, is a term of enforceable. This very institution of the payment order introduces this draft law and so we have in addition to the urban differences now introduced by this institution into administrative differences. It should be stressed that this introduction of the institution occurs when the difference arises from an administrative contract in the course of trade, i.e. if we have a sale of goods or services by undertakings and self-employed persons working in public, private and public law. It is well known throughout the legal world - particularly the fighting lawyers - that the introduction of the institution and in the context of administrative jurisdiction will certainly be part of the administration of administrative justice. It will unlock thousands of administrative differences from the size of the regular administrative diagnostic trial, quickly equip public, OTA and legal entities with an enforceable title, so that they can be satisfied in time and, in any event, in a reasonable time. And this, when it is known to those presenting Jerusalem that a regular administrative diagnostic trial may take between four and eight years in the administrative appeals and five and nine in the administrative courtrooms. Of course we must bear in mind that the public and OTA hostages are mainly medium-sized and small businessmen and businesses, who have sold goods and services and have been unpaid for many years, with a direct risk of inability to continue operating because they are being charged either with tax burdens to the DUs, their obligations to the insurance funds or even the payment of wages. The institution is certainly quite successful under the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure and there are all the conditions and conditions for the institution to achieve and under the regulations of the Code of Administrative Procedure. This was supported by almost all the bodies in the context of their hearing by the relevant committee of Parliament, while all of them contributed ideas and suggestions we discussed in detail, the Minister accepted them almost all, and we now have a draft law which can really help to combat late payments by public, OTA and legal entities governed by public law. It should be mentioned here that an investigation that exists and has been carried out for debtors of public law, of ATT and of legal persons governed by public law has shown that 80% to 85% are debts of less than 200,000 euros. I say this, Mr Colleague, for you from the JRC. You have to answer: They must once be equipped with a executor's title to get their money that is small, EUR 5 000, EUR 10 000, EUR 30 000, EUR 40,000, etc.Huh? You have to tell this here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u133	Didn't we say so? You didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u134	If you do not want and think that behind the arrangements there are intragroup transactions and capitalist arrangements to say that too. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have participated in all the meetings of the committee responsible, I have to applaud the position of the Minister, who has literally given form and expression to the aristotle concept of dialogue and democracy, which are embodied in the well-known phrase 'always gar perhaps'. It has left no proposal to the contrary, no amendment advice that does not make use of it and ultimately does not contribute to the completeness of the bill. I will insist on an issue that, during the debate on the principle, has emerged in committee as a major one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Just make up for the half-minute we lost in the announcement. The main issue, therefore, which has been raised in committee, was who will be responsible for issuing the payment order. Will it be the administrative judge of the court or the court of appeal? The speaker, like the representatives of the judiciary associations, believes that this institution must be united in order to issue the order for payment and request the opposition. And this has finally been established and is to the credit of the Minister who accepted it. This solution seems to me to be the most correct for the following reasons and I will give them an outline: First of all, the power to differentiate between administrative contracts is not divided, since all administrative contracts or disputes fall within the jurisdiction of the administrative courts. Secondly, the main purpose of the draft law, which is to resolve the dispute quickly, is to ensure that there was competence for the administrative prototypes. Already the sevens have solved tens of thousands of cases arising from an administrative contract. So there's one more. They are in their responsibility and in their circle of duties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly - and I conclude, Mr President - the philosophy and objectives of the bill are more rational and convincing, since it introduces a specific process of a unilateral character ex parte, as the rapporteur says, which means without a hearing, i.e. without a hearing, that is, without a hearing by the debtor or the contractor and without a debate by the audience. So since we have these defence deficits as a whole, the fact that one year has been taken over neutralizes these negatives and we have a more rational and convincing solution. Fourth and last, the payment order procedure is not broken as an institution. So the institution, too, is well known. With regard to the person issuing the payment order, the same court, to which the Judge issuing the payment is subject, shall also have competence in order to demand the opposition. This is what is being transferred here, and so we have the administrative authority to issue a payment order and the appeal office to demand the opposition. So I think this is more rational and convincing in all respects. I would like to make one final point, Mr President, which concerns the following: it is well known that the number of public, Otta and legal persons in public law is horrific, that the number is too large. It's not about this fact. As a lawyer now I am telling you: I have never encouraged a client to resort to administrative justice to collect public and OTA debts. Because, Mr President of the JRC, the closure of an administrative trial, a diagnostic main proceedings, is five to eight years. So you understand that if one undertaking had two, three, contracts of EUR 100,000 against the OTAs and the public, it would have plucked the second year, it would not have waited for eight years to solve the problems to the DU, to the workers and other operating costs. We are therefore equiping him with an enforceable title directly, within months, and this is for the benefit of the large number of, 85%, as I have said, public and OTA lenders who are medium-sized and small enterprises. I wouldn't want to miss it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u135	You must be done, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u136	I'm done, Mr. President. I would not like to omit, ladies and gentlemen, to say this: I really felt proud in committee as a member of the SYRIZA Parliament, but also as a Member of Parliament, to a minister who laid down democratic dialogue, democratic debate - I repeat, and would like to close with it - by adopting, in practice, what we lawyers have said, the two basic principles: Ubi dibium ibi libertas, where there is doubt and freedom, Mr Theohar, and audi alteram party, always listen to the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u137	Mr Theocharis, you have the floor and thank you for your service.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a necessary bill. We have asked for some important changes and during the committee's procedure, and the Minister made some improvements that were important, and that is why we must praise him. Of course, we cannot say that, in fact, this bill, the New Democracy bill introduced today by SYRIZA, for discussion, does not look at the problem of resolving it radically. In our view it should do so in a different way, just set three simple conditions for the order to come out. First, the judge should examine, is there a contract? Secondly, is there an invoice with VAT paid? Thirdly, is there a delivery-receipt protocol and if there is no one, should the public have to bring it? Then the payment order should come out. A simple test can be performed by those of my fellow Members who are lawyers and will prove whether this bill is operational or not. Mr Lappas, perhaps, referred to almost the same thing before. Would you advise your client to follow this procedure? If a client comes to Mr. Lappa tomorrow, will he advise him to follow the procedure for issuing this payment order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u139	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u140	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And I think Mr. Dendias also referred to this by saying what he wanted to say against the bill. If you are government in two years' time I will ask you, Minister - I hope you will be in your place - how many payment orders have been made by your law. I hope I'm wrong, but I think it's gonna be a few. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a necessary bill. We are discussing this for the wrong reasons: why should we comply with the directives or the memorandum. We should actually talk about it because we want to put order in our house. The private person, whose citizens we operate for, where is he in this conversation? Forgotten sitting somewhere unpaid. The invisible Greek, unpaid, but overtaxed! The Greek economy is flying so low that the radars of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks don't get caught! How does the unpaid Greek businessman do? How will he supply hospitals with medicine and material? How will he pay IKA and taxi? How will he pay wages? It will not do so, ladies and gentlemen, as OPECE did not do as soon as the grant was cut off for three days, it did not pay its employees. He'll go, he'll fess, he'll shut down. These are the three options that this government gives the Greek businessman. Every day sixty businesses close, every day six hundred fellow citizens enter unemployment, every day 23 million are evaporated from Greek GDP. You are causing permanent damage to the Greek economy, ladies and gentlemen. In the economic theory this permanent damage has a Greek name, called "delay". It is not always this damage through sound'regions', such as 'ICT' and 'ON TLECOMS', but it is with many companies who are quietly shutting down every day. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tomorrow 29 May. The economy, the country, our lives. For tens of thousands of entrepreneurs now and formerly, for hundreds of thousands of unpaid workers, for over a million unemployed people who have lost their lives, who have been under stress for tomorrow and insecurity, instead of solutions? Shipwrecks, interior shipwrecks and exterior shipwrecks, canvassed government. Inside: No bread-free spectacles. "General Public Prosecutor Visinski", apologise, the President of the Parliament asks for certificates of social opinion, separates people from left-wing ones. He asks: "You from what means are you? Are you the one and you're called?" "What did you do on the night of June 11, Mr. Major?" I wonder if I'm watching a novel by Yannis Marie or officer Becca's delusion from Harry Clynn. Externally: What do we have abroad? It is now openly undermining the negotiation and the Prime Minister by the Minister of Finance. One recording the others and the next recording only. I can imagine him in Eurogroup stopping recording when people talk and then restarting it. In the morning, he says we tax ATMs, and why not guise them? So people can wait in line? - and this afternoon he disguises himself with an official announcement from the Ministry of Finance. Unprecedented! The Ministry of Finance is falsifying the Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, gather your scorpions of troops, the clouds have drowned very much. Yunker, the government's most powerful and consistent ally in Greek negotiation, describes the Minister of Finance as unwanted. Last week the ECB gave us 200 million for ELA, instead of 1.1 billion for Greek banks and they needed it. Today, he doesn't give at all, with a ridiculous excuse. There are no outputs. Only 300 million are yesterday's effluents, the Varoufakis effluents with these unexplained statements, 300 million. And they make fun of us the next day and tell us that the Greek banks don't need any money. In VAT we make from the press, from the press, from the anti-Community television proposals, and we have no plans. We simply end up predators to increase the rates, without changing anything. We keep three factors and we hide, but Mr. Juncker reveals that we need to collect 1.8 billion from VAT. But if you keep the three rates and don't even make them two, you won't get anything from tax evasion, because the three rates favour tax evasion compared to the two. So if you increase them by one billion and reform, what you get will be 1,3-1,4 billion. The world's money will catch a place. We in the river say: 'Simplify the coefficients. Reduce the social effect by giving allowances or transport equivalent and reduce bureaucracy. Exempt businesses up to EUR 30,000 from VAT, the suffering every quarter to declare and pay." You leak the plan in the press and refuse to inform the political leaders at all times. I'm leaving the House. You do not leak it, however, and it is ready, but handy and whenever it is, it will soon be made with two alternatives to each subject. Mercy! Symble states the day that the credit event is very likely - which was not before, but is now very likely - and the next one that the capital controls will take place in our country. The famous economist Kenneth Rogoff proposes as a solution the capital controls for five to ten years, not as an emergency solution, not as a response to the "crime", but as a medical device. The medicine that we are proposing - we have arrived in that country, ladies and gentlemen! - by authoritative economists it is for ten years that Greeks will not have access to their own money. Ladies and gentlemen, you are always caught up in constant self-determination. You deviate from the Greek society. The higher the rates for the euro and for our stay in Europe, the higher the rate of drachma in the SYRIZA Central Committee. From 35% - 65% the Rinaldi - Left Platform Agreement took it to 45% - 55%. You have a drachma troika, ladies and gentlemen. This troika must be defeated by the drachma troika. Part of it is within SYRIZA, part of it is business interests, within and outside Greece. To tell you this once again, if they will catch a place and the Greek people who see it, the agreement has two pillars: Austerity and reforms. These are the two pillars. We can't get away from them. A proper strategy would say 'take more reforms, give us less austerity'. That means negotiation, I take and I give. You're asking both of them. You won't get them. You can't get in a deal from both, so you're forced on the last day, at the last minute, before you whistle the match, get the deal and you'll get it ready, made from abroad. And abroad they know how to give what they have always given: a lot of austerity and a few reforms. The same is true of the previous Memorandum of Understanding as the previous Memorandum of Understanding. So we can tell you again whether or not it will catch a place: ask for a surplus this year and in exchange for manual and professional administration rather than a party. A social network for the weak to stand on his feet and live decently. No charity and equipment of 500 million in rots, 50-year-old planes, every officer who respects himself says it's useless. Common, fair rules on taxation and insurance and not grabbing and carpeting. Strike on corruption, not debt gifts, amnesty and endings. Liberation of products, services and entrepreneurship and not Soviet regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few words, you should have had a plan to grab and change the country where we are stolen, a plan to make our country the place where we and our children want to live. Not only in this country can you not drive us, but you can't even imagine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr Theochari. Mr. Antonis Syrigos, Mr. Kyriazidis, Mrs. Antoniou and Mr. Psychogios will still be spoken. I do not see any more Parliamentary representative. Anyone who comes and asks for the floor will take it and, of course, the Minister will also speak. If we're together, I think we'll be done faster than the 17:00 that I promised you. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, Minister, the order for payment, as a provision for judicial protection, is already in existence and has been mentioned (Article 623 and next Code of Civil Procedure) and no conflicting political character has been heard so far. Its main feature is that there should be no doubts about the requirement and that it should not be conditional, time-limit or conditional, i.e. it should be certain. Now simply expanding its scope and administrative law, the Code of Administrative Procedure. In this sense, it is nothing new to bring together so many contradictions. In any case, anyone who notices must also propose something else and this has not been heard. Secondly, I believe that the legislative improvements were correctly made and were enforceable. I am thinking more of this in the first subparagraph of Article 272C, where it speaks of the lodging of the application, which can also be done in the secretariat of any of the Administrative Courts in the region of the competent Administrative Court. This is a solution which, on the one hand, does not break down responsibility, which is the responsibility of the administrative authority and, on the other, makes it easier to lodge an application, which is, in particular, an issue that clearly benefits them. It solves an issue, that is, it is quite right - in my view - a procedure, in order to serve itself, to be able to testify in a mountainous area or on an island and there is an administrative court of first instance. I consider this to be one of the best predictions of the bill we are discussing. Let me close by two remarks, although I am not used to it, one is legal and the other. An issue has been raised quite rightly, which is certainly not today, but I think there will be a debate on it in the future and on the basis of a general regulation on it. I will sign it 'the public as a party'. As you all know, the public has prerogatives, it has imperfect, clearly less expenses, and, of course, the supporters of this view that the public must have all these privileges have as a prerogative that the public represents all of us - fat - and in any case, his presence is intended to protect the public interest. This is the one version. The other objection, that is, that the equality of the parties is affected, is that the citizen feels weak, since the public with its privileges and powers can reach the highest courts, I would say, while the citizen has too much to deal with. So this is a very serious argument on this issue too. So since this is a very serious matter, I believe that it should be studied and thoroughly investigated, which would lead to a comprehensive review of the form of public participation in the courts, with more judicial and operational criteria, which would safely lead to a satisfactory solution, combining the advantages of both views. However, it escapes today's debate and I am steadfastly putting it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am usually not leaving the text, that is to say, the subject of the debate. However, today I will try to do so in order to remove a reasonable contradiction that leads to a political contradiction. Everyone wants to negotiate, and when it is done, they are criticizing and accusing her. SYRIZA's first and main promise, which everyone who is unfoundedly passes, either to underestimate it or to ignore it, is that it had to be negotiated. This is also done, consistently and perseverally. It is simply because the extent and intensity of this negotiation is disturbing because it shows, if anything, that there has so far been no negotiation and that the last argument put forward by those who, unfortunately, have identified the concept of negotiation in the sense of inviolability and perpetual catastrophe, i.e. 'yes'. I am sorry to have to stress the self-evident point that negotiations are taking place. And I regret even more that some who had forgotten that word cannot even imagine it. And since the reason for bracelets and bracelets, we have been trying to pull out the big bracelet, bronze, which has been in the Greek people for five years and, unfortunately, has been forgotten that it has entered. And I believe that we will achieve this. SYRIZA has no soldiers. SYRIZA has responsible political officials, who only have one of them. That's where all the components or trends end up. And this is the people and their interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u144	Unfortunately, Mr President, my fellow Member referred to the people. But in the name of the people, too many times, great crimes have been committed. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, of course - you understand it - now accept it and you too, if not out loud, at least in the private debates - retards, pedestrians, when to the west, when to the west, when to the west, when to the east. Again the same circle. The ship again to the west, to these people's killers you yell at, to the Americans, to Iran, extends a hand of help to Russia. "But it is difficult for the doors, when their need is ticking them." Fellowships and colleagues of SYRIZA, you have created a tour on this ship that takes one to the west, one to the east, one to the north. And this circumcision creates - if you want - a situation that can lead us to drowning. This ship, this country, this circumstance can swallow it and you have the responsibility. And, of course, I am not referring - as my colleague has said - to one of them, one of them. I would refer to one of those who outside the House shouted that 'whoever governs the galley is a leper'. Today you are ruling, colleagues and colleagues. And we, as a counterpopulation, put back on, draw on the oar. Because most of the bills were our positive response and any positive provision was adopted and voted on. We did not see this from your side during the previous government service. That's our difference. Of course, our dear colleague, Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Gerovas, has also referred to the fact that we are causing concern, we are undermining this effort. You're the ones who undermine her. Your own ministers say otherwise in the morning, but at noon, but at night, but at night, each other. We saw it yesterday with the Minister of Finance, announcing, announcing, and two hours later withdrawing. As before - as you say - there will not be the islands and then we have seen how you are taking similar directions from those you blamed. SYRIZA colleagues and colleagues, the agreement you signed, you have accepted it and the negotiation has something to do with you. It's an internal matter. Government efforts are being made to convince you, so that you can adopt, agree, vote on the agreement, contract, memorandum, as you want to call it. But this is the cruel reality. And the harsh reality is about the future of this country and for the first time you see that the opposition - I would say all of it - gives hands of help. But it is enough - as I have said in all the bills so far that I am speaking - in this war to be tied together. The first time the country has been in a "war" situation and is not tied up. Usually what we won at war, we lost it in peace. Now, unfortunately, the first time in historical times, the country in a war is not tied up. And that's the big deal. I would still expect the Prime Minister to have this agreement - I believe - to have it in Parliament: to address the leaders of the parties, not to apologise, but to admit this harsh reality and what he has been accusing of so far, so that it can be adopted, if you like, and from the standpoint of opposition - and I am referring to my party, my party - the consensus on what is positive about the agreement. I have also said in all previous bills that, if that is not the case, as far as I am concerned, and positively that my group will vote for, if that previous position is not there, my position will be negative. Minister, it is a bill, which has indeed been drafted by the previous government, by my government. It has improved significantly in the debate that has taken place in the committees and is judged to be positive. After all, it is about speeding up the execution of administrative contracts, where debtors are local government, municipalities, regions, counter-regions and have to do with small businesses, which are indeed waiting for any contract to be responded. In other words, these people should be able to meet the needs of their businesses through any assistance to the municipalities and regions. I shall also refer to the legislative improvement of preventive control. Here there is a reservation and as far as I'm concerned. I believe that also during tomorrow's debate, there will be a reference to whether the Court of Appeal or the Administrative Court of First Instance will have jurisdiction. Your late amendment, Minister, since you have indeed revoked the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs of this amendment and the two paragraphs of this amendment remain - although I think that the rapporteur of my party is also acceptable to me. That is why there will be or has already been a report. I would also like to remain in an amendment which deals with the possibility of exempting military obligations - I mean to rank - those of the country's citizens who have given examinations to introduce them into police schools, officers and police officers. There was no provision for classifying them and they were invited to rank, while schools would run this year. This amendment is therefore necessary. After all, it has been tabled for the third time, and I am glad that part of it comes today and is imported. But there is, Minister, a gap in those who have already been called for military service and are not covered. Here is an inequality. I would ask for this, with your correction - add, to be treated. You're government. There is an inequality between the citizens of this country, because they have already been called and recruited. This dream of theirs to be classified, unfortunately not on your part. There must be added, even at this point, because we are talking about equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, I think you should see this with Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Kyriazidis is right, and he will probably pass by unanimously. My colleague, Maria Antonio, has the floor from the lofty and beautiful Kastoria.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a bill from the Ministry of Justice, one - I think Mr Theocharis - a bill of New Democracy, which was actually drawn up and consulted by the previous government, but there was no time to vote because of political developments and the declaration of elections. I am therefore pleased that the Minister brings this bill to a vote today, which is moving in the right direction, as it protects and supports the private initiative and the business sector, giving a solution to the crucial and timely problem of payment delays, which private individuals have always been faced with when they traded with the public. This draft law creates the legislative framework by which a private person can now issue an enforceable order quickly for unambiguous physical claims arising from an administrative contract. So we are fighting red tape and the time-consuming process to control the liquidation of the claim, which many times have had disastrous consequences for the company's liquidity. In other words, a legal weapon is given to the individual to quickly satisfy his claims towards the public, which has so far not existed, contrary to the requirements of trade, for which the Code of Civil Procedure was in place. However, we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is also an obligation for our country, which has to comply with the corresponding European Union directive 2011/7, but also a Memorandum commitment. And here, ladies and gentlemen, it's interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the speech-shaped - antimonetary announcements by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the draft law implements a Memorandum of Understanding, which in any case works for the benefit of the real economy and entrepreneurship. It would seem, in this 70%, 80%, 90% - anyway - that the current government accepts the Memorandum. But on this point, Minister, I would like to draw your attention and to what the current government does not implement from what it is from election and post-election is committed, of course and by transferring the feeling of civil law as a responsible Minister of Justice. First of all, the minimum guaranteed income. The relevant Deputy Minister of Social Solidarity Mr.Theanos Fotou assures up to a few days ago that he has signed all the instalments and the design of the Ministry of Labour is that all allowances should be paid to the beneficiaries in good time. Unfortunately, even today, the payments have not been made and the beneficiary citizens, who are in extreme poverty, have been deprived of this important financial aid. And when one seeks responsibility for late payment, one finds that the responsible bodies simply transfer responsibility to one another. So I wonder where the government's commitments to support vulnerable social groups went? Exactly the same goes for the heating allowance, Minister. In the region of Kastoria, in which I am elected, in which I have the honour of being elected, in an instant area where low temperatures have even been noted at this time, the citizens have not been cleared from the heating allowance for four months. The relevant Ministry of Finance actually invades thousands of beneficiaries, sometimes a preconceived problem with computerisation, when it is known, Mr Minister, that there are no cash available to pay the heating allowance. So where is the social sensitivity of the government again? I hope at the very least that the competent authorities do not show the same delay in recording the enormous losses that occurred last week in the wider region of the Municipalities of Kastoria and Argos, as well as in the immediate payment of compensation to the farmers affected, so that we do not need farmers in our region to face similar extreme poverty conditions and are also part of Mrs Fotio's law. Ladies and gentlemen, the last SYRIZA central committee showed that the country's fate hangs in a thread. Some play political games on the back of our children, jeopardizing the future of the country. Because when 45% of the ruling party calls for a break, bankruptcy and a return to the drachma, then it is obvious that the drachma lobby has increased significantly. At the same time, some others make suggestions, depending on how they wake up in the morning. One says not to pay the lenders, the other says not to accept the agreement, the third says to condemn the previous four catastrophic months and the next to condemn the uncompromising attitude of the lenders, but to sign an honest agreement. And the Minister of Finance himself now owns the world record of self-determination. It's the absolute madness! Each executive and one opinion, while the country is in danger of the worst disaster in its history. So if Mr. Tsipras has made a decision and wants to keep the country in the euro, then let him go to an agreement, which will be painful for sure, after "sold" four months, but to make this clear on every kind of platform of his party. Because, in the current state of SYRIZA, there is a serious risk of an accident. And that is now a national case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. Mr Pappas, the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, agreed to close with the last speaker and give him the floor immediately afterwards. Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill attempts to comply with Directive 2011/7 of the European Parliament. The report of the Scientific Service distributed to us for this bill mentions Decision 18/2005 of the Supreme Special Court, adopted by several judgments, in particular political courts, which considered that the exclusion of payment orders from the category of enforceable securities, in particular against public or legal entities governed by public law, is not in line with the constitutional requirement of Article 20(1) of the Constitution and Article 6(1) of the ECHR. In that regard, Marios Ice also considered, in his decision No 369/2014, which considered that such compliance would be in line with the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Moreover, according to the Ministry’s assessment report, in relation to the effects of the arrangement, it is stated that, firstly, the acquisition by the beneficiary of a cleared, unambiguous financial claim of a directly enforced asset, following a unilateral procedure. Secondly, the creditor's claim is directly met, even if it comes from a cleared claim. Thirdly, restoring the normality of life trade and fourth, boosting liquidity to the market. Ladies and gentlemen, we had the opportunity to listen to representatives of operators during the preparation of the bill, and we could notice that for the most part their opinions on this bill were positive. There have also been some objections, which we can mention, initiated by Mr Antonopoulos, who is President of the Board of Justice of the Council of State and who had referred to the fact that it would be a more effective and quicker procedure for these cases to be dealt with at the administrative courts, as was finally adopted by the Minister. It was something that was also noted by other representatives of operators and, in the end, this is in the right direction and was adopted by the relevant Minister. Then, Mrs Giannadakis, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Association of Administrative Judges, in a positive opinion, said that the public and legal entities governed by public law should in fact be consistent with their contractual obligations and not just their obligations. Panagopoulos, on behalf of the Athens Chamber of Commerce and Crafts, said: "It agrees with the content of the draft law under discussion, the aim of which is to speed up the payment of fees from the execution of administrative contracts and reduce the delays in payment in commercial transactions. The issue of a payment order shall be an acceptable procedure, as a result of its speed, in relation to the slowness of the administration of justice and in particular administrative justice. It is an institution that has been tested and succeeded in the field of private law and complements the gap that existed in the Code of Administrative Procedure. On behalf of the Association of Medicines and Biotechnological Products, Mr Arnautis was positive in this bill, with observations and spoke on behalf of the representatives and manufacturers of medical devices, mostly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, who are against the public with fewer weapons and instruments, in order to claim their demands. Finally, I would also like to refer to Mr Katavatis, who was a legal adviser to this Association of Medicines and Biotechnological Products and raised a key objection, which had to do with preventive control, as follows: The objection to preventive control is not about preventive control itself, but about ensuring that preventive control begins and ends. In other words, there is a timetable within which it will be completed. As far as I remember, and the Minister at the meeting of this committee said that this is a matter which will be considered and which we will see how it can be addressed, because it is important. Also, an issue that exists is that of the oral agreements between suppliers and municipalities that are more difficult to prove. I think, however, that they too, because they are a large part of the trade, on condition that we could see them. Continuing, I would like to refer to a memorandum submitted to us by the Plenary Assembly of the Presidents of the Hellenic Bar Associations and which comes to make some proposals, in relation to the bill that we are discussing. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to point out that neither the bill on the penitentiary system and the decongestion of prisons was present, but neither was either the Athens Bar Association nor the plenary, which does not honour them, in that they represent a very large part, and in particular the Athens Bar Association, which is the largest scientific association in the country. So in this memorandum, there are...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u149	You mean they were called and did not respond?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u150	In the penitentiary bill they were called and did not attend. I'm not quite sure about that, to be precise. In any case, however, their contribution is crucial. They were summoned, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u152	They were called. In one of their comments, therefore, they say that the draft law does not add anything to the procedure already followed, which the local civil courts, court courts and tribunals have so far successfully applied. This contrasts entirely with the fact that we are implementing a directive, which is a directive of the European Parliament and we should comply and see the best way to implement it. Secondly, it is stated that the conditions laid down in the draft law effectively cancel the satisfaction of the applicant's right - the issue of a payment order - since they require that the cost preventive control has been completed and also a positive one. In this context, I would like to compare Mrs Dessis Kavadia - Constantara, who is Vice-Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Association of Judges of the Court of Auditors, who said that within three months and with over-representation of the members of the Court of Auditors, can be completed. And that is the issue of the timeframe we were talking about, the assessment of preventive control. Also, the issue - what I mentioned by Mr Katavatis - is not preventive control if it is to be done, the question is how we better define the issue in time, of course, in the context of the practical possibilities that the Court of Auditors and the state have. Finally, it is stated in that memorandum that administrative justice is to be charged with at least four proceedings, while the primary administrative courts, which are already overloaded, are to take over. One issue has been solved and it is about taking responsibility from the administrative courts, so we are not discussing it. On the second point, that it is charged with at least four proceedings, I consider that reductions or reductions in legal proceedings or benefits are in no way justified in any case, in particular by the plenary associations. And that was one reason - not to discount justice - which we rejected and the draft Code of Civil Procedure. To conclude, I would like to say that, as Mr Kyriazidis said, we are in a war. In this war, and with this bill, we are trying, against the interests in and out of Greece, to restore this time injustices, which are on the market between businesses - small and medium-sized enterprises in particular - and the state, in view of the interests of these categories - that is, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the incorporation of a rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u153	I invite Mr. Christos Pappa to the Step. By the end of the day, I would like to inform you that I will give the floor to the Minister in order to answer or say whether something is acceptable and one - one - I will ask the two rapporteurs and the special speakers if they want to speak - but for two minutes each to fill in something, and in particular, where there is no absolute clarification of the party's vote that they represent, to say so and to vote directly on the bill's principle. As we had excellent cooperation - and I thank you - so far, I think that's how we're going to go to the end. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u154	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion is without substance. He doesn't have any interest in the Greek, I'd say. Even this placement of parties, i.e. 'yes', 'no' or 'no', makes no sense at all. So, what do you say to the tested Greek? Do we make it easy for you to get money from the government? What public? The public who's on a tax raid and measures to take everything to you, or at least what's left of you? Does the government that did not pay, pay and pay to present the fictitious primary surpluses to the Memorandum guards? Ladies and gentlemen, from the Step forward, I had called on you to place yourself and condemn the terrorist strike in Maroussi, to condemn the murderous attack on the candidate and member of the Golden Dawn. From the same Step, some time ago, our Member, Mr Ioannis Lagos, referred to the same murderous attack, but also to a series of other terrorist attacks on our party, reported your guilty silence too. Your silence, ladies and gentlemen, means acceptance of terrorism. Your attitude refers not only to the upholding of these acts and acts of violence against the Golden Dawn, but essentially means - and we will say so again - a moral automobile in these acts. The state and the para-state are acting organized against half a million Greeks, who, by their vote, condemned the policies of the memorials and the last national betrayal carried out by the past governments and which, as they all show, is still to be seen - the present government will continue. State and para-state, blue, green and red, are trying to fade the only true opposition, i.e. the Memorandum Arc trying to fade and terrorize the Golden Dawn, a Golden Dawn standing against the Memorandum and the Neumonical Status, which, unfortunately, also brings SYRIZA. You reveal day after day left and right. Both the New Democracy and SYRIZA know that the signing of the new Memorandum is imminent, no matter what you want to say, no matter how much you want to serve it for propaganda to the Greek people, trying to mislead it. The new memorandum moves in the footsteps of the Memorandum of Understanding prepared by Antonis Samaras for election. Remind me who this is? He is the leader of a political party who was unsuccessful saying in his reasons in the Constitution: "I smash the memorials with the month, week after week, day after day." This person is a Member of the Greek Parliament, holding the seat of Messinia once again and is the leader of a party whose spokesman, Mr. Kostas Karagkounis, just yesterday made the following statement through the RES, the Athenian News Agency: "It is very easy to say that they will not pay the credit obligations..." - says Mr Karagunis - "that is, that they will cause a credit event. And they forget that if that happens, in a month, they won't be able to pay anything. Such nonsense at the moment, but also irresponsible statements that provide for scenes of destruction, only harm the country. Now that lies are over, the government has the opportunity to give up its populism and we have the opportunity, as a country, to make a great deal of contact." So, what does the New Democracy say? What does the person who supposedly tears the memoirs out by day? Through destruction, a well-known New Democracy tactic and its so-called interest - the latex - I would say her interest - not to get hurt in the country - as if she did good in the country - they ask and beg for their share, for a piece of the Memorandum pie. They are begging, in other words, for co-government, by promoting the image of the always willing, the good boy, against Europe's and the International Monetary Fund's tabloids. They're getting ready for the big sale. The country's future governance scenarios are now also recorded in the international media. I read a report from the Belgian newspaper 'New Europe': 'It is a common place that Greece will find a solution to its problems - anarchy, migration, money flow - it needs to take serious anti-grassroots measures. And that alone can be done by a large government of cooperation. An effective, great alliance may only take place between the two major parties, SYRIZA without its neo-communist components and New Democracy under a new leader.’; That is clearly what the newspaper points out. So the New Democracy, with the statements by Mr Karagunis and other Members and Members of Parliament, once again aspires to play the role of the faithful Memorandum. Therefore, against them - all of you - the memorial arch, against the sale of the country and the impoverishment of the Greek people, your problem is a serious problem for all of you, the power of the Greeks stands, the third political power, the Golden Dawn stands. Well, you know it: Golden Dawn does not grant, Golden Dawn does not retreat! We are not afraid of organized states and para-states. We do not have organized warfare and your deep hatred against the Golden Dawn. You hate us because you're afraid of uncovering the scandals. You hate us because we speak the truth. You hate us because of the recent disclosure of the calendars of the SIEMENS secretarial, that is, the lady you have left, without a police escort, and she also fell victim to a terrorist attack. So, in these logbooks, from 1997 to 2007, the intertwined economic and political tombs of the country are being brought to light, and a large number of people of parliamentary and extra-parliamentary life are being ravaged. But there is no one, but no one, any member, executive, agent, voter or fan, if you like, of the Golden Dawn. I submit to the Practical Journals of the magazine 'CRASH'. You've all seen them, you've all read them. You know it. You don't talk about it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That hurts you and you know that. It hurts you that we're the only ones clean. We are the only ones who can look to the Greek in the eyes, tell him truths and ask him for his support in our struggle for national independence and social justice. For our various hybrids in this Chamber, who easily evocate their anti-fascist delusional speech, I would remind you that we were not the unborn, but your party - the People's Alarm, the EPE, the New Democracy - who hosted in the children of dosingists and ministers on 4 August. Let me remind you left-wingers too - that the sacred totem of yours, the totem of old Soviets, Joseph Stalin, is the one who signed an agreement in August 1939 with Nazi Germany. They jointly invaded Poland. On the one hand it was the divisions of the German army, on the other hand the divisions of the Soviet army. We tell you so that you don't give us history lessons, much more for some unscrupulous people who even rank Poland in the allies of the axis. And because we know history, we are studying history, we are drawing conclusions from the events of the past and because this morning in this Chamber there has been a minute silence in memory of Gregory Lambrakis on the occasion of the anniversary of the murder - to be precise - we have also kept a minute silence on this suspected murder, which forced Constantine Karamanlis - the one you call "national ruler" - to say the following words: 'But, who is ruling this place?' This is an idiot, at least, question on the part of an expert - it is assumed - political. But it's very simple: the embassies. The embassies of the Vassilis Sophia Street, the foreign interests of pluralism and their submissives in the Western world. It's short, simple, but true. How do we do it? So, let me remind you, in the morning's observance of a minute's silence, that it was not just the Lambrakis victim of the state and the para-state. In May of '63 the murder of Lambraki did not serve the dark decision-makers, namely those who decide the fates of the Greek people, in the absence of the Greek people. It's also the murder of Alekos Panagoulis in May of '76 who had the records of the EBA. The post-government story would have been very different and the post-government scene would have been different if the EBA files had been published. It is, even, - if you want - and the murder of the journalist Socrates Giolia in June 2010. It is the murder of her technician "VODAFONE" Kostas Tsalilidis, the alleged murder. It is the murder in December 2008 of the unfortunate student Alexander Gregopoulou. And I will not extend my report to incidents, which at least seem suspicious from 2008, from Gregoropoulos to our days. Gregory Lambrakis fell victim to dark centers. Recently, the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA", which includes terrible revelations about the background of the murder, revelations that should trouble us. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents a document on the Minutes, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will take the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Pappa, you alone can't get anything. You ask for time and the Bureau either gives it to you or it does not give it to you. You were out of the Chamber. The agreement does not include second-hand parliamentary representatives. However, you will have the tolerance to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much for giving me time to complete. To conclude, therefore, my reference to the Gregory Lambraki - and this is important - is that many people in this Chamber are artificially hiding their past. They hide the axes, dedications, meetings and interviews with Stylianos Pattaco. Some still hide - if you want - their left revolutionary past, converted into limo, swimming pool and caviar. I do not want to smash the memory of the murdered member of the SAD, Gregory Lambraki. But in the Minutes - because we are studying history - the photograph of Gregory Lambrakis from the Balkan Games in Istanbul, 20 October 1940, that is, eight days before the Italian invasion, where he greets with the ancient Greek, fascist, Nazi - as you would like to say - the greeting. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also submit a card from Gregory Lambrakis to Frau Else Giuseletos, which concludes with the motto 'Heil Hitler'. Here's the documentary. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned card, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The past, therefore, of deceased and living must be mentioned, to know who we are talking about, to know who we are honoring. I mention these, because the wars of the national struggles, the wars of nationalism, with great ease are using against the Golden Dawn - the speeches have suffered a great deal of attack on the media's wrongdoers and billionaires - texts, photographs, family and personal moments of the past to create impressions. We know and you know that all these elements are a bubble and they have no legal significance. Many admit that: "The trial and the charge are not going as we planned it." First, we didn't go to 2%, as Antonis Samaras said. Secondly, we are the third political force, with constant upward trends. The polls say so. I'm presenting the last Sunday's poll. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned survey, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the design of domestic and foreign para-states is not performing and is now moving on to the second phase. Evidence of the second phase is the clear murder attack on a Golden Dawn strain. [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] One more suggestion, Mr President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen - and I particularly say this for the Greek people - as we have held up the flag and the popular movement of national resistance to the anti-national regime of the Samara junta, so we hold the flag high and resist left terrorism, we resist to all of you the prosecutors of the country's third political force! Be sure and be sure that the Greek people, that we continue our struggle on their side and that the truth will eventually win, Greece will win! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u157	He has the floor, Mr. Minister. Minister, how many minutes do you need to speak? Do you get five to six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u158	Six minutes, Mr. President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor, on the one hand, to highlight a number of points which, after the debate, were preceded, I think, must be tabled tomorrow and corrected and, on the other, to say two - three thoughts which need now to be tabled in this debate now. As far as these points are concerned, I should like to say that it should be explicitly stated that the draft law, which will shortly be law, should also have the 'and other provisions' clause, because at least one provision concerning administrative justice was added and a regulation should be tabled tomorrow morning, which will refer to the time in which the law is in force. I should also like to say that tomorrow morning this provision, which stipulates the entry into force of the law, should be tabled by me, according to what had been heard during the committee. In addition, today, when discussing a correction, a Member was asked to state that preventive control would be carried out where appropriate. So this needs to be noted and announced tomorrow. Beyond these points, however, I think it is necessary to clarify two - three self-evident. First of all, the self-evidents should not need to be clarified. However, since the unfoundedness in this way is often reproduced, I would say the following, which, moreover, is linked to the basic reason for introducing this bill into Parliament. First of all, I would like to say that this bill is not a memorandum. I say this because I heard something loud, "Welcome to the Memorandum". This bill fulfils a national need, because there is a national need to ensure that there is a speed of trials against the public. Furthermore, it serves a European need, because it has been drawn up on the basis of a 2011 directive, which is, of course, a European directive that applies to all countries and has nothing to do with the Memorandum. So there is nothing to do with the memorandum on the law, which we are discussing today. I would also like to refer to what has been said, in relation to the same law: some parties in fact vote positively and on their part there is a positive vote on bills introduced by SYRIZA or another government, while SYRIZA, when it was opposition, never voted for a bill of government at the time. I would like to remind you what and how much SYRIZA voted for when it was opposition. First of all, my attitude in support of this law and in recognition of Mr Athanasios' work shows that I render the Athanasios work of Athanasios in Athanasios, despite the fact that this is a Minister of the previous government, who of course has shaped this bill, I completed it later and thus, to a large extent, whatever credit to production belongs to him as well. Secondly, did SYRIZA not support the so-called anti-racist law over the previous governments? Didn't he support Law 4139 on drugs, which was the task of previous governments? And yet SYRIZA supported him. It has not supported the law which has introduced a new procedure for the election of the European Court of Justice or has not supported the law. 4274; your law, Mr. Athanasios - who introduced electronic surveillance, the bracelet? Therefore, this objection 'we support and you do not support' is not right. Finally, let's look at this bill, according to its essence. Anyone who believes that it is right in the first place will have to vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u159	Before giving the floor, as I said, to the rapporteurs, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the Eleas Fotida Municipal School. The House welcomes them and have a good time. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I ask the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Athanasio Scum, if he wants to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u160	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u161	I would ask that at the end of the placement, anyone who has not fully clarified the vote on his party should do so, so that we can make it easier for us to vote shortly. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u162	I would like to begin by addressing a number of issues raised by the rapporteurs and speakers in the debate. The first thing I wanted to say is that I think Mr Athanasios mentioned and the Minister answered. I would just like to say that, although a European directive is complemented by Greek law, which essentially regulates a relationship that has not been regulated and exists to date - I should like to say this - a situation in which the political courts have issued payment orders for which they have essentially not had jurisdiction. It is therefore coming to solve a legislative gap and a problem of jurisdiction. In other words, it is a legal solution, which should be resolved. The introduction to some bills of Memorandum-based legislation does not make this regulation a memorandum, because it concerns all of the countries of the European Union. That is right, of course, and the Minister fully mentioned. With regard to the matter of the judiciary, because the special speaker of the JRC referred to it, I would like to say that the judiciary applies to all disputes - both political and administrative - in a specific way, and is escalating, depending on the amount of claim requested. I think that the JRC could also ask for private differences. So I don't think there's a problem there. On the contrary, a practical problem is solved, that claims from administrative contracts can be met through a specific bill. Finally, I would like to say that as far as this whole is concerned - because many issues relating to the country's course have been mentioned - on how to satisfy claims can be met, when there is no possibility today by the Greek State, probably very much to satisfy claims from administrative conventions and not privately - which must also satisfy the public, but which do not relate to this bill - I think that the situation and the budgetary hug we have reached as a country cannot be created and was not created by the policy of SYRIZA, from the evidence. In other words, the fact that the cash deficit was created and appeared in February 2015, with certain amounts, reaching around EUR 500 million is not a result of SYRIZA's policy, but of the policy of the allegedly succession story that Mr Samaras pointed out in such a strong way throughout the previous period, but that was, in the end, a letter blank, because the result was deficits. In conclusion, I would like to say that the insult made today by the Golden Dawn against a flagrant form of the Hellenic Republic, against Gregory Lambrakis, cannot but offend, not Parliament, but the Greek people and the struggles that he has given to the enemies of freedom, the enemies of fascism and the enemies of totalitarianism within this country, the struggles that the Greek people have given, particularly the workers and all those who have given the opportunity today to speak freely. We are voting on the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u163	Self-evidently in favour of the principle of the bill. The references in Gregory Lambrakis have been filed in the Minutes of the House. I think that the competent institution of the House, at the request of the President, also has the right to examine their authenticity. Mr Athanasios has the floor for three minutes, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is an obligation for our country to adapt it to the national legal order, according to the secondary law of the European Union, of which we are a member, unless one considers that we are not a member. So the directives are, as you know, a secondary law of the European Union. The directive to which we referred, the number. 2011/7, it is a common directive adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers. All Members of Parliament should know that, but much more so the ministers, who in the first half of 2014 when our country had presided over the European Union, had presided over the relevant committees. So what you said, Mr President, is that there is a free movement of ideas, in view of the fact that a colleague from the same party as me has been differentiated. Of course it is, but let us not forget that the Member of the European Parliament has freedom of opinion and vote - unrestricted indeed - under the Constitution and under the Rules of Parliament. However, it should be mentioned by all the speakers, who were opposed to it, that it is not just the decision of the Ice Arrow, who solves the question of jurisdiction of the court and not the jurisdiction of the court, which is what court is responsible, what procedure, whether it is the administrative courts or the political courts. Jurisdiction shall apply to a court within the jurisdiction. Therefore, the issue that is judged by the Ice Bay Branches - why two different departments have made different decisions - is a matter of jurisdiction. So that there is no such divergence, so that we can have a better acceleration of the courts in this case, because there are still too many cases pending in view of the fact that both the administrative courts and the courts on which the case went have more power to adopt the decisions more quickly, but also, above all, that the party of the natural judge should not be deprived of the fact that the administrative courts are the administrative courts, the Greek state has come to be in line with this directive. I don't see what the problem is. Nor is it true what has been said to create more trials. It has also been said by a colleague from the Legal Affairs Committee. I don't understand. If we went to the civil courts, isn't there a payment order there? Isn't there an arrest against the payment order? Is it not to be suspended in order to bring an action against the opposition to the appeal at the Court of First Instance? Aren't we going to the secondary court? It's the same procedure. He's not paraphrasing anything. On the contrary, we have a profit. Therefore, expressions which were referred to as 'not worthy of serious comment' or 'for the sight' were not serious, and the colleague should, before telling them, study the bill better and deepen it. And the Communist Party was differentiated. But I saw what decency he said his arguments. It had an opposite view, in the ideological context that has been said, but we did not go to such expressions, much more when they have not been studied. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is correct. It will speed up the trial of cases. The most advantage will be given to micro-loans - to say in particular that, with a rough study that we have carried out around 60% of the obligations relate to the debts of the LAGs, the region and the municipalities to small businesses and the workers, who, in order to get a trial for a case today, through the regular procedure, go after years. With these regulations, Mr President, we have achieved speeding up. There's been improvements. No one's infallible. And as the Minister of Justice I thought, and today I do not see why all Members' comments which are correct should not be based on a piece of legislation which has no political time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I conclude, firstly, that the New Democracy through its parliamentary representative and its rapporteur, Mrs Athanasios, is in favour of the principle of the draft law. Is that clear, Mr. Athanasios?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u166	Yes, of course. I said it in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u167	And because I have heard a lot of colleagues from all sides about the debts of OTAs to third parties, I would also like us to look at the debts of the state towards OTAs at some point. Not only about the debts of OTAs to third parties, but also about what the state owes over time to OTAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u168	We're busy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u169	But he's taking care of that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u170	In the old capacity of self-government, Mr President, you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u171	As an old self-government, let me say a word. No mayor can be in this Chamber. I therefore speak for them, for everyone, regardless of colour. Mrs Severoni-Hondonassiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am also given the opportunity to plead for this as well. We say that these are contracts between the state, public bodies and agencies and within these agencies we say that they are local authorities. So how should the contractor be shielded to demand what is owed to him by the great gypsy who is the state? Local government bodies are less vulnerable, and there should indeed be some provision for local government agencies to be able to claim from the large, difficult - where they want - a giant, public. We, Mr President and Minister, see the whole course as Golden Dawn. But, you know, we have a lot of objections that we have said since the first time and when we came into contact with others and better viewing the bill we keep them here. I wish we were disgusting. We shall vote 'the present'. Do you know why? We believe that not only the intention. This is about a giant. We are dealing with control mechanisms. The preventive checks must be carried out. I am afraid that now, as far as bureaucratic procedures are concerned - as I have told you in committee - we are going with the Arab. On the one hand, we are talking about a rapid, speedy process, which means running fast on the other, and on the other, the rest of the state - in a narrow or wide sense - what has to do with the control mechanisms is very slow. He's not even "fast slowly". Just because you have referred to some objections that have been raised by some - and by bodies, if you like - about the competence of the Administrative Court, I would like to say that what has not been heard in the Chamber is that we have all been discussing the cases of the appeals or the first judges of the administrative courts. I do agree that the payment order will come out. There can be an arrest. Of course the public also has rights. But isn't there secretarial support in the arrest? I mean, I told you about provincial - apologies - regional courts, although we are a province. Region tells us to gold the pill. But what about employees? I did a visit yesterday, as I told you, at Larissa Court, and there I was scared. There were many offices and almost none of them. They retired, retired. What's gonna happen? Is the point of having only judges? Don't you need secretarial support? How will all this work? That is why we say, Mr Minister, that we are reluctant to say 'at present'. Because if the courts are not done and if we do not have the infrastructure, a law cannot function. That is why we have told you that not only intentions are enough, but we also want results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Sverni. My colleague Mrs. Special Buyer from Potami, Mrs. Tahiau Christina, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as a philosophy we agree. We also agree on the law's validity from 15 September. We are pleased about the course and the improvements. So far many things have been improved, which at first were not there. We still have reservations about certain specific issues, such as the unquestionable requirement and the question of enforcement. We hope that soon we will also see a full draft law on speeding up justice and resolving very serious problems that exist at the moment. We hope that the public will not continue to be a mispaid, petty, procedural - either by conviction or by necessity - and we are in principle in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Tachiau, and for the briefness of your position. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Vardalis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. We have carefully followed the debate, both in committee and in plenary, taking into account the proposals, the individual reservations of other political parties, the amendments tabled and those accepted by the Minister. If we take all these different views together, our opinion is that all of them together are procedural, that is, in particular, the best implementation - in the opinion of everyone who has tabled these proposals - of this draft law. In no case, in the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, all this together does not change the nature or purpose of this bill. Next, the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece on this legislative intervention remains the same. Let me remind you that all this effort is part of the general logic of facilitating the capitalist recovery of the economy in our country, of liquidity and of commitments to the Troika. Will you allow me a minute, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u177	I'll allow you and I'll give you a minute more, because I'm interrupting you. Since I was not in the Chair earlier, would you tell me, is your party's position'represent' or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u178	I will say it at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u179	Will you hang up with this? Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u180	I understand the timely and proper preparation of each of us before we come here to place ourselves. But, in my opinion, although I am a new Member, we should also take into account the debate that is taking place in the Chamber and sometimes change what we have written beforehand. That is not the tip of any colleague in particular. I would like to make it clear once again to small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed traders and craftsmen. Will small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from this draft law? Our opinion was and is clear: yes. Are there many of these little people who will benefit? Yes, there are many, small amounts. But here, ladies and gentlemen, we must not put an end to this. There are others, the few who have the huge sums get from the public. So we should not just see the tree, but see the forest as a whole. On the basis of this logic, therefore, seeing the general context, the general picture, the Communist Party of Greece is placed, and that is why it votes'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u181	Thank you. I give the floor to the Special Speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vasilis Kokkalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I am going to stand by the claim that it is a Memorandum of Obligation. We can't talk in the air. Where does this bill appear to be a Memorandum of Understanding? To tell us to know that, too. As the Minister said, it is a Community directive, which is addressed to all Member States. Therefore, nothing has to do with memos. The sure thing is that it will help a lot of businesses. We are voting in favour of the principle of the bill, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Red, thank you for your briefing. I'm just telling you, I don't remember about the Independent Greeks, but that's what was termed the Memorandum Law when Mr. Athanasios was Minister from the then Opposition. I'm not talking about the Independent Greeks because I don't remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u184	He hasn't come to the House, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u185	No, when he was presented as a consultation, he had a position. I'm old and I know what I'm saying. It was public placements. Well, now that's it. The bill's fine. The last speaker from PASOK, George Arvanitides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will continue with a small comment on what was heard before and in the position of the Minister and the majority rapporteur on the memorandum - an antimony. I told my position to end with this story of memorial and antimony. Besides, SYRIZA, by 70%, by the mouth of the Minister of Finance, acknowledged that 70% of the memorandum is good, but we do not like 30%. So what I want to note is: at last, the political system, all of us, can we make a national exit plan from the crisis? What is it to say what we do not want? Finally, to say what we want and to be able to do it. This is as an observation. As far as the bill is concerned, we are in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u187	I want to thank you for the cooperation. In the face of Mrs Gerovasili, I would like to thank all the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs who are here to thank all my fellow Members. My partners in the Chair and I thank you very much. The debate is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Publication of payment order for claims under an administrative contract concluded in the context of a trade transaction". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u190	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u195	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: “Publishing a payment order for claims by an administrative contract concluded in the context of a trade transaction” was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-27-S1-commons.u196	With the consent of the House at 16.32 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 28 May 2015 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: reports of petitions, in accordance with Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, and of topical questions under Rule 130 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, at 12.00 p.m.; legislative work: continuation of the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Publishing a payment order for claims under an administrative contract concluded in the course of trade", according to the agenda distributed.
