ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins on the only debate on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law: "Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure". 2190/1920 and other provisions’. Because there is no quorum, we will be interrupting for ten minutes and I would ask my colleagues to come to the Chamber. The time is 12.20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law: "Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure". 2190/1920 and other provisions’. I would like to ask all Members and all my fellow Members to sit down so that we can begin. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 22-4-2015 decided that the bill should be discussed at three meetings, particularly at the meeting that is now beginning and two further meetings, tomorrow morning and the afternoon. Today's sitting was decided to take place before parliamentary scrutiny, i.e. to begin now and end at 5.30 p.m. in order to have a half-hour break and at 6 p.m. to continue the procedure with parliamentary scrutiny. Tomorrow we'll have a meeting in the morning and the afternoon. Today's sitting will take the debate first. I would remind you that the way in which the debate is held is defined and laid down in Rule 95 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure entitled 'Content and initiation of the debate in principle, a series of speakers'. The debate on the principle of a draft law or a proposal for a law refers exclusively to its purpose and content. The first draft law debate begins with its oral development by the Minister responsible. Then there is an analysis of the proposals for legislation. Here, we have a bill. Then the rapporteurs, any special speakers, and finally, the Members who have joined the list of speakers in principle, are speaking, without prejudice to Rule 64(2). In relation, now, with the list of speakers, I would remind you that this is until the end of the speech by the rapporteurs under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure. The rapporteurs are the first two, namely, in this case, Mrs Agalia Kyritsis and Mrs Sophia Vultesis. Of course, we have said, because the same role is actually served by the so-called special speakers from the rest of the parties, we will call them "the rapporteurs". However, for the purposes of listing the speakers, the list will be opened by the first suggestion of the Minister, Mr. Nikos Papapas, who is responsible for the purpose and will be closed at the end of Mrs. Vuldisi's report, which is the second rapporteur. The right of second-guessment in principle to the draft legislation is the right of Members who have joined the list of speakers in the previous paragraph - Article 96 - that is to say - and if they so request by the end of the first debate. I would also remind you that Article 64 defines the order of speakers. I won't tell her in detail. All in all, however, I should like to say that the speech is given to the Members in their order of registration on the list of speakers and off-line to the Presidents-in-Office of Parliament. The reason shall also be given as a priority to the relevant Ministers if they so request. Otherwise the rapporteurs are going to, and so on. This is about the general principles of the discussions. In the first debate, pursuant to Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteurs cannot exceed 15 minutes - especially the special speakers - while the speaking time is set at seven minutes. The Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall not be more than 15 minutes and the Ministers shall not be more than 10 minutes an hour. However, there is also the reservation in paragraph 3 of Rule 97 that the speaking time cannot exceed twenty minutes for the Presidents of Parliament, who have a power of at least 1/6 of the total number of Members - in this case the parliamentary groups with more than fifty Members - and the eighteen minutes of the time for the relevant ministers. Therefore, in this case, for the competent ministers and the rapporteur, the time is eighteen minutes. I would also like to inform you that Parliamentary Representatives are set at 12 minutes for protology, six minutes for dentistry and three minutes for tritology, without prejudice to the provisions that provide that if the President of the respective parliamentary group is presided over, the time is reduced to half for protology, and that means that six minutes are made. Secondary as a whole is half of the protology. Finally, I would like to inform you that for this debate rapporteurs have been appointed by SYRIZA by Mrs Agalia Kyritsis, from New Democracy, from the Golden Dawn by Mr Ioannis Lagos, from the river Mr Spyros Danelis, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Nikos Mavraganis and from the PASOK Mr. George Arvanitidis. So we start the debate at first instance and I call on the Minister responsible, Mr. Nikos Pappas, to take the step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 June 2013, our democracy was a top blow. The government, then, said Mr Kedicoglou, decided to close the ERT. With this government declaration of "substantial death" Greek society has stayed without a public broadcaster to date. And I say to this day, because society has never trusted in the creation of an anomaly, the creation of a vengeful political act. In those days Greek society, even those who did not choose to see or listen to ERT, together with institutions abroad, EBU, International and European Federation of Journalists, regional and municipal councils, trade unions and professional associations, the European Parliament, all the intellectual creators, artists in our country, together with the fired, recorded a very strong demand. ERT to remain open and this injustice to stop. Unfortunately, the decision to close imposed a financial burden on society. Some hoped that the Greek society would absorb this extremity along with all the others. They've been disproved. At the same time, there are also those who hoped and those who distort the truth about the policy that the current government is implementing. Some people started shouting that this bill would be cut by the lenders, as if they were the "douches" of the lenders. That's not what happened. ERT's opening. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is consistent with its election commitments and is consistent with its programme statements. This bill did not come in terms of processing. We have consulted the parties and institutions in full. We have incorporated criticism and remarks. We also want the plenary process to improve the bill and to shape the widest possible consensus. For us consensus is a prerequisite, it is a prerequisite for restoring the relationship between the people and the society as a whole to the public service broadcaster. Our will is sincere and has a fundamental objective, to give Greek society all a broadcaster who is entitled to it, a body that has credibility, which will be lasting and will not be credible in a unilateral policy and will not last as long as a political cycle lasts. We are legislating on ERT and we are not just legislating to restore a working right. We are legislating on the right of society to information. We are legislating on the right of society to public service broadcasting, to start entering the television landscape and to ensure the public interest. Some may react and want to perpetuate the anarchist, the uncoordinated, the TV landscape. We call this with emphasis and hope that they understand it inconsistently. We are not concerned about these reactions. Our government is determined and we hope for the good of all of us and the opposition parties will not be matched by those who think they may have tax, financial and institutional immunity in the international community. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, ministerial decisions concerning the collection of 2% were signed for the use of frequencies by private television stations for the period 2011-2014. The previous governments had this obligation and, unfortunately, they did not comply with it, as they did not comply with their obligation to tender for television licences. However, this will concern us in the next draft law that we will bring to a debate in the House together with the Deputy Minister responsible, Mr Spirtzi. The question of these issues is of primary importance to us and concerns the operation of the public service broadcaster. In order to restore, as I have said before, the citizen's relationship with public service broadcasting, we need a public service broadcasting free, open and free of the paths of the past, counterweighted by propaganda, independent of state interference, but above all, independent of private interests, such as the draft law, which we are presenting today defines. This draft law, both during public consultation and at committee meetings, was enriched by participation, observations and proposals from citizens, bodies and MPs, not only by the government majority. What is urgent now is its vote and planning for the new Greek radio and television. What the House has to do is deliver a credible ERT to society. It will be a beacon of spirit and culture, a beacon of objective and immediate information, an opportunity to create for youth, a body of communication and entertainment for the victims of the humanitarian crisis, who have no resources and opportunities to buy a newspaper, to go to the theatre or cinema, to attend a concert for those who are still in the remote areas of the territory, who do not listen and do not see as well as to the Greeks. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen not to step on the legal acronyms that closed the ERT. We have chosen not to fall black once again on the public service broadcaster. We have chosen that ERT should not be reintroduced simply by a joint ministerial decision, that the property, facilities and equipment of the company should not be reintroduced again and, above all, that there should not be new redundancies and new hostages of the workers, that is, through a dubious legal procedure, through the reintroduction of the 1987 law, that those diseases, the privileges, the medicaments, which were ultimately used as excuses and pretexts of those who wanted our country not to have a broadcaster, by those who chose to shut it down in a hurry. That is why we are amending the existing legal framework of public service broadcasting and in the hands of all of us it is to gain the naturality and recognition it deserves, the one that the entire Greek people sought during the 'Black' period. Of course, this proposal is not reflected in any piece of legislation in the end, but it is an actual struggle and an act of conscientiousness. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law improves previous regulations, but in particular new ones are being introduced, which record the new dynamics of the ERT. The ERT therefore opens up and restores its name for not only symbolic but also substantive reasons. With the violent closure of the ERT, its logo has become known worldwide and is an asset, which no political leadership is now entitled to dismiss. The ERT is again a single body, comprising pan-Hellenic and regional television and radio stations, ERT-3, music sets, chorus, and printed or electronic magazine versions, with the possibility of engraving a new design in their operation, in order to resolve issues of pre-closing the period. In addition, ERT is based on society. Its purpose and purpose are fully in line with the provisions of Article 15 of the Constitution. ERT contributes to productive reconstruction, actively involve new creators, strengthens film creators and book writers. It also guarantees access to our fellow citizens with disabilities. He watches and is ensembled in the fight against all discrimination, in the protection of victims of violence. In the ERT function and programme, intolerance and fear have no place. Racist propaganda has no place. Universities, schools, local authorities and social collectives will actively contribute to their ideas and proposals. ERT uses new media and new technologies and is a provider of a digital signal network not only for its own programme but also for third parties. Its operation is not financially burdened by the fact that the fee is not increased. The ERT shall be managed by the participation of the employees represented on the Board of Directors, elected by a separate, universal and secret ballot. It operates in terms of transparency, with new regulations that will leave no room for suspicious procurement and regrettable contracts. Its operation is governed by the rules of transparency and democracy through the maintenance of balanced budgets and the abolition of privileges - the provocative many times - for its managers and other members, who have enjoyed a full level of pay which is inconsistent with the capacity of the body and with what was happening in society as a whole. A key issue for ERT, its administration and its employees will be thorough monitoring, not only of the special clearance but also of the whole of the contracts, both of ERT and of NERIT, in which we have recorded and documented negative symptoms. Many people are asking this sincerely - has this criticism been heard during the debate in the committee responsible - this will be free and independent? I would like to say that this type of criticism has been heard by groups which have no independence and independent functions in relation to the public service broadcaster. At a time when the information has been distorted, however, and sometimes only deliberately undermined by the government's work and the course of negotiation, the government has proved to date that it is not interfering to a minimum and simply exercising supervision over the public service broadcasting that exists, NERIT. And that is what we want it to be recorded. The draft law that we are introducing for the first time provides for the agreement of principles between government and ERT to protect independence, pluralism and transparency. This agreement is the guarantee and may be invoked by the ERT administration each time, if and where government intervention is available. I would like to say and emphasise that recent experience has shown that as many institutional forecasts as there is, as many interim supervisory bodies and councils as if there were no political will of independence, all of this remains a blank letter. Recent experience is extremely taught and I would like to ask that this - let us say, an excuse or this political argument for some of the forces to vote against this bill. The political will of the government, I think, has been recorded by the way it has so far been dealt with by both the substance and the letter of the bill, which we are bringing to the vote. So the ERT will be independent and even signature. Ladies and gentlemen, the ERT is its people. With the draft law, the redundant of 11 June with wages, of course, are returned within the scope of the broadcaster's possibilities and with the possibility of concluding a collective contract of employment. They are returning and taking part in the new project, without re-insurance against those who have chosen to find work on public television and later to NERIT, but on fair terms, since under the statutory joint ministerial decision, the financial requirements of those made redundant with any remuneration or salary or allowance will be offset by twenty-two months that have elapsed. Those who have applied for a temporary pension are also returning, mainly women who have entered early retirement. And this ministerial decision will be adopted immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has decided to open up the ERT. She decided to proceed with the implementation of her programme. He has decided to give a resounding response to those who have tried - let me say - to make the conditions for poorer working not only in the economic sphere but also in the cultural - cultural field. We call on all the parties to contribute as a processor of democracy to this effort which will eventually return integerly to all the people. The regeneration of the public service broadcaster, the regeneration of ERT is a victory for democracy, is a victory for the entire Greek people against those who have slandered him over the years and are unfortunately choosing to keep slandering him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I invite SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Agalia Kryritsis, to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time two years' time it has been completed by the closure of the ERT. Two years have been completed since June 11, 2013, when the coup d'état 'black' on public service broadcasting came to seal the gradient in the most cynical way to the demands of the troika. It was a "black" that certified what this place has experienced in the difficult years of the memorandum, a "black", which has unequivocally confirmed the depreciation of democracy and Parliament, which has ratified the concept which says that society and people are replaced by numbers and economic goals, which must at all times serve, a "black", which has confirmed subordination and has opened a deep trauma to democracy itself. No government in world history dared to do what the then coexistence of the Memorandum Greece did. It was a 'black' that exposed our country globally. Then, in order to hide the real objectives, the Minister responsible - the 'Black Minister' - now identified as following the familiar tactics, spoke of holy cows, referring to ERT workers. The then rulers tried in every way to slander, slander, create impressions. Their tactics, however, fell into the void. And the answer was received not by the ERT workers but by society itself. They took it with massive mobilizations that they coloured in the summer of 2013. From Agia Paraskevi to Thessaloniki, Yannina and Serres and from Crete to Patras and Mytilini, the offices of the local stations became centers of struggle and mobilization, became centres of multi-formal actions, where they again gained a sense of forgotten concepts, such as collectiveness, solidarity, fellowship. Despite the slander campaign, it was very quickly realized that the enclosure at the public broadcaster entered to deliver the heads of two thousand nine hundred workers in the troika. In addition, it was immediately demonstrated that the enclosure opened the way to serve from the then coexistence and the interconnectors of the ‘DIGEA’. The close associate of the former Prime Minister, Chrysanthos Lazaridis, a few days after the "black" and specifically on July 2, 2013, had admitted the real goal publicly. "We were looking..." - he had said features - "...to find a solution for the two thousand removals and a solution was not there. As the redundancies process progressed, it would take months, perhaps time. And we only had days." Following the line of Kedicoglou, he said that the decision to close a body that everyone knew was a bulwark of the enslaved, sends the message that there is no tolerance to the castles of the enslaved, to complete: "We have broken a taboo that was wanted and approved by society". However, how clear it was approved and wanted by society, it had appeared in the clearest way. And it was exactly the support of society that made the hundreds of ERT workers swear a race vow until the ERT reopens. This is where we are today. The government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks is bringing the bill for the public broadcasting service to a vote in plenary, a bill that comes primarily to heal an open wound to the heart of democracy and, secondly, to restore a gross injustice against workers. Ladies and gentlemen, since the debates before the committee responsible, two main conclusions were drawn: The first is that the vast majority of the twenty-three bodies and unions that took part in the consultation of the bill welcomed the opening of the ERT, while proposals were put forward, which attempted to integrate themselves into the bill that we are discussing. The second conclusion is that from the point of view of Officerial Response, nothing substantial has been heard. What they had to testify to was that the many strikes closed down the ERT, while invoking waste, opacity and "them", that is, their own things. Since when do strikes shut down businesses and even public ones, and since when is one legitimate to justify his coups, invoking his own works and days? Apparently, it seems that those with summary procedures are able to make it unresolved and equalised by turning society back decades. It is also indicative that in the long debates before - and it is worth seeing the minutes of the committee - the words of public television and of NERIT have often been heard. They have not even attempted to defend the shapes they have created. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating is the result of a large social consultation. It is the result of a wide-ranging dialogue which, at the same time, took advantage of the experience of self-management and self-organisation of workers, who, for twenty-two months, literally gave their soul to hold up hope and, above all, the demand for independent and pluralist public broadcasting. It is worthy of special study that the struggle and, above all, the work of the hundreds of ERT sacked and the solidaritys that supported it. Through ERT-OPEN, ET3, regional NRAs, people who have been confronted with their strengths have shown that they have both the mood and the knowledge to serve information and culture, away from addictions and slavery. Most importantly, however, they gave the most abstract answer to those who described them as comfortable or incompetent. For twenty-two months, they kept with demands of ERT alive and put the best deposits for ERT that society deserves. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a few points. And I'm starting with which ERT we don't want. We don't want ERT, past pussy and customer relations. We do not want ERT, which will be the "long hand" of the governments concerned. We don't want ERT, making government propaganda. We do not want ERT, above-mentioned orders and interventions. We don't want ERT, which will build reality. We do not want ERT, the wages paid, the special advisors, the external and mixed producers, which were made primarily for the enrichment of certain fine teleesters or for the public money guaranteed, certainly private companies. We do not want ERT, which was methodically reaping its employees, which was methodically leaving infrastructure, resources and human resources to unclaimed. We do not want ERT, which will compete with the proper market conditions for private channels. We do not want ERT, which is the only guide for its programme, to be the measurements of viewing and listening. So which ERT do we want? We want an ERT that won't remind nothing of the model of the past. We want an ERT, independent and pluralist, an ERT, which will produce information and culture, away from addictions and custody. We want an ERT, in which the clienteles of the governments and governments concerned will not be placed. We need an ERT without an army of gold-paid special advisers. We want an ERT, in which there will be no place for arbitraryness and the exploitation of its wealth by private interests. We want an ERT, which will not be sacrificed for the service of the intermittents. We want an ERT which, by exploiting all its staff, which has proved its abilities and capabilities over the past period and by exploiting its infrastructure, will reduce costs, without making any reduction in the quality of the programme. We want, after all, an ERT, open to society. We want an ERT, controlled by society and it will be apologised. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are discussing, ERT is reopening, without course, the sins of the past, the sins which were children of the old political system, of rhetoric and manipulation. At ERT, all contracts are revivaling indefinitely. All those who worked on an indefinite contract of indefinite duration on the day that ERT couped will return to work. For contractors who have lived for a number of years in a hostage and occupational insecurity regime, covering the substance of fixed and continuous needs, the Governing Council will, after shaping the organic positions, open an invitation to tender with additional molecules. In the past few days, much was heard and written about how to appoint the administration and the superpowers granted to the CEO of the ERT. Let me make a few points here. The bill stipulates that the positions for the members of the board of directors will be proclaimed, while they will be promoted, as you will read in the explanatory statement and the institutional changes needed to ensure that their final appointment requires a broader majority and therefore social acceptance, while two of the seven members of the board of directors will come from ERT's employees and come out after elections. And that is what is being introduced for the first time. ERT's control, programme and content will be carried out by the National Broadcasting Council, which will publish an annual report. Also, the ERT will submit to the House's Committee on Institutions and Transparency and the National Broadcasting Council, in the first quarter of each year, a report on transparency in the use of the fee, which remains at EUR 3. In addition, within a quarter of the operation of the ERT, it will be decided as you have heard the Minister, the principle agreement between the public and the ERT, after consultation with the National Broadcasting Council and the workers. This provision is also introduced for the first time by this bill and aims precisely at consolidating the independence of public service broadcasting. It will provide for the conditions for safeguarding pluralism and pluralism in information, the qualitative upgrading of public broadcasting and the rules of transparency in the management of economic resources for the benefit of society. In terms of independence and control, social control councils are also set up for the first time, through which society will have effective and effective intervention and carry out continuous control over the ERT. In addition, 1.5% of ERT's turnover will be allocated to boost cinema production and support the book sector. Finally - not in importance - the party of days with external and mixed productions ends with the vote here in this bill. Agreements and awards will be made with absolute transparency and sound management, always in the light of publicity. Ladies and gentlemen, the ERT will be reopened but not in the violent and fascist way in which it closed. We will not allow for one minute the reintroduction of the 'black' to take place from the NERIT format to the ERT. Serious and methodical preparation is required. That is why any delay is justified. We want the transition to be done in the most rational way, without gaps and amateurisms, which threaten to cancel the project for the new ERT. We are committed that the dialogue that began with the drafting of the bill will continue after the start of the formal operation, so that continuous improvements and corrections can be made, with the aim of gaining, in the most substantial way, a function and a result, which, on the one hand, will enhance independence and pluralism, on the other, will in fact inspire and exploit all the experience of self-management and self-organisation. It is our deep belief that the ERT workers must literally be freed and taken off their best skills and intentionally hinted all their previous years of professionalism. We are not going to follow the bad recipes of the past, because we really believe in an ERT independent and manipulated ERT, which frees its workers, an ERT, which inspires those who serve it and does not turn them into fearful employees who are self-justified or subjected to calls and above interventions, an ERT in which society recognises its needs and priorities and, above all, an ERT, which supports the effort to bring the country and society together. This is why, for the first time, it is attempting to link public broadcasting to productive and social reconstruction. Because there have been many comments about linking the ERT to productive reconstruction, I would like to point out that ERT and regional radios have a really important role to play. Apart from highlighting local issues, they can and must promote local production and the advantages or opportunities of each region. If we are serious about productive reconstruction, we must bear in mind that productive reconstruction does not exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please, one or a half more minutes. Don't hurry to comment on what I said. For example, the projection of another nutritional or consumer standard is part of the process of productive reconstruction. Of course it is. The public service broadcasting can contribute to this? Of course he can. This is a very small example of what the public service broadcaster can contribute, in an attempt to complete the country that is needed today as much as ever. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that the bets ahead of us are many and great. We know that a law is not enough to make the major problems of real democracy and social control in public broadcasting a reality. What is needed is political will. And that will be our will. Moreover, we do not have the workers to our minds. From a position of principle, we treat them as co-formulators and associates in any effort we make. We trust in their abilities and friendship. And we are sure that the ERT workers, with their work and experience from the unprecedented experiment of self-management, will be the guarantors of the ERT that we dream of, the ERT that will be the eyes and ears of society, controlling all authority. For us, the purpose of public service broadcasting is not to follow the incomplete dominant model but to serve another model, both in information and in entertainment and culture. We are talking about a model that promotes overall average social consciousness and sets out the conditions for reconstructing the social fabric. Ladies and gentlemen, by voting on this bill, the black page opened on June 11, 2013 is closed once and for all. We invite you to vote in favour of the bill, which cures a deep injury to democracy. We invite you to vote in favour of the bill, which will restore the image of our country. We invite you to vote in favour of the bill, which will unite Greece again, which will re-evaluate the real potential of our country and of its people around the world, because in Greece the black has never matched. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Kritsi. I call on the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Sophia Vultaris, to step up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, in your speech you have suffered a very serious stumbling-up. You obviously did not attend the Friday sitting, during which exactly the Minister, Mr Voutsis, had to revise himself. I would like to make it clear to you that the New Democracy, the Protestant Opposition - and I imagine the whole Opposition - are not going to accept and accept the propagandaist tactics you have started to incriminate about everything else. You cannot reach agreement with partners and lenders, and we are to blame because we identify them - you say - and we are 'douches' of them. You'll get that back. Did you say that Members of the Greek Parliament are "douches" of lenders because they give their opinion? So because we are constantly listening to a fifth convoy, undermining, subtraction, I tell you that what you are trying to do propaganda is to incriminate entire parties as identified with the troika. You did this before the election. Now you're not entitled to do it. You are the government of all Greeks. These parties represent a people. Is this people identified with lenders? Is it a duke? So who did you call a duke for? You have to say that here. We are telling you that we will not tolerate this. You'll stop it. This could work for you. It may suit you to keep talking about a fifth column. Of course, you don't know what the fifth column was. So you yourself are the fifth convoy for which you accuse the opposition. You incriminate the opposite opinion. Once someone has another opinion and believes something else, he's a representative of the lenders. No, Minister, you're the laundry of the lenders. It is you and the non papers that you issue every time Mr. Tsipras visits Mrs. Merkel. I noticed that she was visiting every 23 of the month, as on 23 March, 23 April. Has he made an appointment every 23 months? Where's he going now? Is it going for May 23rd? I noticed yesterday that he contacted...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u8	Maybe you can tell us about the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u9	I'm not taking a vacation. I'll talk about what I want from this Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u10	We've heard this many times! You say the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u11	I'll talk about what I want from this Step. No, you won't!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u12	You say the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u13	If you don't like it, don't listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u14	We like them, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u15	Well, the holidays will be calculated. So you guys yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u16	Everything will be calculated. But when you are addressing a second plural, it makes sense to have reactions. Keep going. You'll have a tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u17	I wasn't talking to the minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u18	Keep going. You'll have a tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u19	Madam President, do not make a bad start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u20	Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u21	You saw that I welcomed you, I said welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u22	That's nice of you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u23	You were four days in Armenia. Thank God, the act of legislation was passed with your absence, with an epilepsy vote that went to the zuca. All right! Don't start it, because you know we're not going well. I want to say a crucial issue for democracy. If Mrs Vaguea can't handle it, she can't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u24	I can take democracy too much!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u25	Well, the opposition parties and the people they represent are nobody's dunks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u26	You are!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u27	Hey! We said we weren't gonna get along! Yesterday Mr Tsipras called Mrs Merkel, Minister, and then you, as a duke, called Maximos - who I do not know who issues the non papers - said that they agreed that there was a common will for firm communication throughout the course of the negotiation. I'm sorry, but better showers and better mercels than you, I can't imagine. You've been talking to Mrs. Merkel all day, calling her, contact her. Didn't you tell us in the election that Mrs Merkel is one of the twenty-eight - not even one of the eight - and you will speak with her as you will speak with the Prime Minister of Malta, for example? Now how did it happen and you're always in contact with her? Didn't you say in the election that we went to Paris to dance the last tango and also that we're carpoises-sparkers and that we're roaming around and chasing the troika from capital to capital? What are you doing now? If we dare tell you that you are dancing the last tango in Paris, where you went, roaming the Brussels Group, or Brussels in Paris, you would accuse us of being undermined. And you blame us for no reason at all? Now, with regard to what you said about 2%, I don't want to eat my time. I have an opinion on this. You'll find these with the canals. After all, now you can't be the rulers as soon as this is voted on. You'll talk. You're going to the canals' union there and you're going to talk to them to find them. I'm only telling you. You know very well that when elections take place, only television messages are broadcast, as the law provides. They are twenty-six parties and formations that take part all night and all day broadcast press conferences the channels. They're not just messages, spots, they're under obligation. Also, I have something else to tell you. When we decided not to collect this fee because of the elections, which was unresolved precisely for that reason, we put down some other data. You with this bill, we don't know how many you want to restore. It's impossible to tell us how many people will return. The whole bill is on the air. Because, of course, we can't imagine some people who have been paid for twenty-two months, coming to work for free twenty-two months to get back into the ERT of your dreams. So, we don't know how many you'll hire exactly. You say it will be a thousand five hundred, but it will also be the overtime that will be cleared. And the General Accounting Office of the State says it can't get out and it's all about potential expense. He doesn't even know how to figure it out. You want to restore these people. They are our colleagues, nobody has anything with them. But should I tell you something? Most of them or they are already working there as contractors and they are restored or hired by the contest or have been retired. And you want to bring them back while they've taken their singles. There's nothing you're talking about. It's too small a team. You could make a photo device, get a little group of your friends that you want to hide in there and keep quiet. So there are no such things. But I'm telling you something. We - and I as the Minister responsible - put down some data. In the crisis, the channels have also suffered a crisis. I have sat down and seen the advertising expenditures of the past and the current ones, and I have found that their fall, that they are not paid, that it is all in the air. And I sat down and calculated the number of my fellow journalists working in the private media. And I had no doubt - because I worked in the private sector and I have been fired three times, and I know what dismissal will be - that there will be redundancies if they are imposed on them. Of course you don't. You are interested in restoring certain people. I also told you in committee, and now again I and my resignation, but we refuse to discuss this Parliament as if it were inextricably, in a test tube, in a parallel universe. The world outwards, we do not know where the negotiation is, the government has never come here to discuss the agreement of 20 February - every time Mr Tsipras tells us, since she talks with Mrs Merkel that she wants to apply it but she never applies it - half of you are told that there will be no elections and the other half of you are going to be elections, and here in Parliament we have no answer for what the government's intentions are and what you intend to do. You have brought society all in despair. They've frozen everything. Yesterday the ESS came out and said that fifty-nine locks were in the day since you took over the administration. And you come now and tell us about the lock and the black to the ERT that is open, which you will reopen, while it is open and works with colleagues, etc. And I told you again, if you have some people you want to take, tell us, get it done, get them to rest. Do you have to be a ruler to hire them? This country has been drying since its last euro. Everything dies. They tell you themselves, those involved in the medicine, that here we are going for shortcomings, we have a problem. Appropriations have stopped. No one can introduce anything unless it pays cash. Cash is unable to pay, because the bank rejects 95% of the demand for loans because you're using the banks to buy treasury bills. And the banks use 1/8 of the citizens' deposits, of the already shrinked ones, to buy the lentils no longer buy them foreign, while the foreigners came and bought them on our government. And now you come here, while this is happening in the country, to be the country in this situation and to get your members out to talk about elections. You need to make it clear in here. We can't talk about ERT. Make it clear what your purposes are. What? That you found the bats? You couldn't get the whole world to dance at your rate and you want to go back to elections? Have you read the Constitution? Because that's not what anyone says. They're called your first-class executives. Mr. Skourletis said yesterday, Mr. Friend says, if need be, we'll go to elections. That'll be clear. It's not about ERT. Here, we need to talk about ERT three days. You want to hire someone? So hire them. What's the matter? And you don't hire everyone - as far as we know - the ones you have to. The ones you want to hire. Here, in Parliament, you will come and say what is going on and you will commit yourself. The Prime Minister must come himself. We can't talk here about ERT. Are you going for elections? If you go for elections, you have to read the constitution. See what's wrong with the Constitution. Can you go for elections, where you call them back? Beyond the fact that all this call for elections undermines your own negotiation, because your partners are listening to this debate and say, "I'm sorry, you're going back to elections. It could be another government. Do I not let an agreement with the other government?" And there will be the same things that were done on our own government that Mr. Tsipras was calling for elections on the pretext of the President of the Republic and the partners said: "We stop, children, here. You're going for elections. Let's see who's next. What can we talk about? Should we agree with you - were we told by the partners - and in January to have another government and to talk again? To discuss once and for all with them." When you're saying you're going for elections, won't you send a message? Never close your agreement and wait for the partners to return to the next elections. If it is possible to undermine your own negotiation and country itself. Is it possible to say that you are going to vote while the tourist season is starting and while you know - unless you don't know that - that the Constitution does not allow you to vote whenever you want, before it closes a year from the previous election? So why do you say so? What are you gonna do? Will you combine four articles of the Constitution? Because last time you could, because the President of the Republic ended. Now what are you gonna do? This article is over. The other article, how will you get through it? So you know that this is not the case. If you do not come in here officially to say that the country does not go to elections, you will continue to cause this damage. Have you seen where the bonds go? Have you seen it? Thirty-three percent. Have you seen the downgrades of the international houses? Even Mr. Lafazani's PPC has degraded. Have you seen what's going on in the country? Have you seen how much the cost of borrowing has been increased through interest rates? Only the indictments you have made banks buy - bringing the interest rate up to 2,70, of course, because no one gets in to buy - it has cost 250 million. Have you heard all foreign officials today - with whom, of course, you are right to confide - saying that there is a significant deterioration in forecasts for Greece's development? Have you seen where tourism has gone, which has fallen to 26% only from Germany, while the German market is at 2%? What can we talk about again, tell me. From Crete they are shouting that there is a resurgence of booking rates. Representatives of drug operators say they don't take credit and that soon they will stop importing. Anguish cries the artisans from Thessaloniki and the industries are sending out to close an agreement. Be careful, though, because now you've been to the other propaganda, as that's where the fuss started last Friday. You are now suddenly saying: 'What do you want us to do? Should we sign?’. No, gentlemen. You rule. Whatever you want, you will. We won't be co-responsible. We had reached a point in the negotiations. You advertised yourself as the best, most competent and most reliable, to make a better deal. Make it. Why do you ask us what we want? No, we do not want you to sign something more unfavourable than what we agreed. Woe and woe, if you bring in a more unfavourable deal. When you're talking, you'll have Hardouvel's mail in front of you. You won't say that. You'll read it. If you do something that's more unfavourable than that, you won't throw them to us. You're wrong. So we do not agree, if you wish to answer your new propaganda question, that you sign whatever is necessary to close an agreement. We agree that you should come as close as possible to what we agreed. That's the reality. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, when you talk, you'll talk with evidence. If you don't have evidence in front of you, I can't talk. I shall conclude, therefore, because I have set you the general outline. You have offended the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and all Members of Parliament. You'll get it back. "Douches" do not exist, a fifth convoy does not exist, fight for their homeland and I think we haven't treated you badly. You were saying we're dancing last tago in Paris. You and your first-class staff. We didn't tell you that. If we told you, the media - which you supposedly want to hit - would have eaten us alive now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u28	I would remind you that, in accordance with Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, the debate on the principle of a draft law refers exclusively to the purpose and content thereof. I call on the rapporteur for the Golden Dawn, Mr Ioannis Rabbit, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. I did not want to start this way, but once the rapporteur in New Democracy has referred to a number of issues, let us comment on them, which we have one more reason with all that has been done. We have heard it say: 'You are making entire parties as 'douches' of lenders'. Ms. Vultesis, in other words, accused an entire political body when the entire Greek Parliament had and targeted a legitimate political party, the third political power of Greece at the moment, the Golden Dawn as a criminal organisation. Mrs. Vulture herself has said she will come to testify in court against the Golden Dawn, but she doesn't tell us what. He's reported a charge witness, but he doesn't tell us what he knows. Does he know about criminal acts? If that's the case, come and say it, Mrs. Vulture, and those of us who have committed a crime to go to jail. However, if you do not know anything, you come from a clear feeling, you and some other colleagues here, to blame a legitimate political party. So, don't go out and get wronged, you of the New Democracy, because it's really funny. They are targeted, said Mrs Vultesis, by opposing opinions. Let us see what targeting we have received, ladies and gentlemen. We've been completely unjust for eighteen months. Some people are still inside. Not only have we been completely confiscated, but persecution continues, no one has come out to ask for an apology, and everyone knows we're innocent. But they are targeted, according to Mrs Vultesis, because so much is the precedent for the unworthiness, the New Democracy and the PASOK, which they dare and say such things. Let's come to the bill a little bit. We as Golden Dawn, despite the fact that we have accepted tons of mud from public television, are in agreement with re-entry of unjustly sacked workers. Any Greek who has lost his job, particularly within this five-year period of tragic things happened in our homeland, we agree to return and work. We stress once again the fixed position of the Golden Dawn that Greece has not been bankrupt by the workers. Of course there have been mistakes in these areas, of course we have to solve them but Greece has certainly not been bankrupt by this, certainly Greece has been bankrupt by various "lisveria" and by money lost in pockets and by specific Greek "large shark families". We would, of course, expect the government to show other sectors and other sectors of Greek workers too. It's not just for public television journalists. I repeat that we want to be recruited, but we want to see what is happening in the private sector too, to see how many Greeks are being seen at the moment and to look slowly - slowly to make steps to restore the injustices for these people as well. Of course, everything is not economic and there must be public television. We have to look at how we will move properly, so that the passions of the past are not repeated, although we as Golden Dawn, to be honest, are not so foolish to believe that from now on public television will work perfectly, without pathogens or without intervention by some. We simply want to hope that these interventions will not be as coarse as they were until now, that such interventions will not be the same as those of the New Democracy and the PASOK, when the public television news report on Friday afternoon, Saturday and Sunday, was the same as the article against us by the great-energy Bobola, "NATIONS" at the expense of Golden Dawn. The public television took this article and from Friday to Sunday, they stressed these things which were falsely in existence and without the slightest opportunity to respond to them. I asked the Minister and the committee debate, and I will ask him now. You can tell us, Minister, and you can assure us somehow, that representatives, MPs or members of the Golden Dawn will also be invited. We're not asking anything illegal, we're not begging for anything. We simply have the requirement that the third political force in our country should at least have representation on public television. For private channels, of course, we know very well that we are never going to be summoned, because we are against their interests, and we have paid this through imprisonment and persecution. Minister, we would like an answer from you at least for public television, for how we can talk. We are legally elected and the votes of the Golden Dawn have exactly the same value as the votes of all other elected Members. We agree that there should be regional stations. It is something in which the Golden Dawn has been in favour from the outset. Unfortunately, in many cases we see that the news releases, even on public television, deal only with what is happening in Athens and Thessaloniki, so there is a need for regional stations to talk about local problems and inform the world. They must, however, function on a proper basis, because we heard from representatives of regional stations during the meetings of the committees that some regional stations who wanted to operate were not on the news lists at weekends. They only stopped and played music. If regional stations function properly, of course we agree to have their word and to hear what needs to be heard. I would also like to stress another problem that has been highlighted, to see how public television has, unfortunately, been working so far. Some people who have been engaged in satellite ERT during this period, namely a man from the bodies responsible for it, that is to say to produce news from abroad and heard from the public Greek TV, complained and informed that people did not know how to write and read English. Imagine what was going on over there. We would like to stand as Golden Dawn and something else we disagree with. It is the way in which the Board of Directors is appointed. It is not possible and we do not agree that five out of seven should be designated by the Minister. Because even if the Minister now has the best of intentions - we do not know what your intentions are, Minister, will we see them along the way - we do not know after a year, after six months, after a period of time when other people will come and take over, how they will move. So we have a great deal of objection here, and we need to talk about it and do not do so. The amount of the reward fee has also been told by the Minister that it will not be adjusted. It would be better to say it starts without adjusting. At the same time, he states that by a joint decision of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State, following a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the "ERT S.A.", the fee may be adjusted. So whether it will be adjusted? What time periods and how much will he be? We need to see and solve these things, Minister. Don't let them hang like this. I would stress a few points in the bill: "The direct control of the state", says attributes, "which also takes the form of the prior authorisation regime, is intended to objectively and on equal terms for the transmission of information and news". In addition, ‘the operation of the public service broadcaster is governed in principle by the principles of objectivity, impartiality, equality in the transmission of information and news’. I think you all know very well here that this thing, at least for the Golden Dawn, has not happened. The news was broadcast at once, as our political opponents and political enemies wanted. They put them as they wanted to put them, they said to us what they wanted to say, and the Golden Dawn never had the right to speak and answer them. If this is about you now, democracy, the people who did this are democrats, and we are fascists, then I don't know, but we've probably confused the concepts in here. I have heard the Minister say before that the racist propaganda has not put it on public television. I come back to the same point and mention attributes that the only racist propaganda that has been in Greece over the past twenty years is against members, MPs, members of the Golden Dawn. Whoever dared to say it was Golden Dawn, I've stressed it before, accepted tons of mud, chased by gods and demons from their workplace to anything else. So we are the first to agree that racist propaganda should not, at least on public television. We are here, so we are waiting to see all this and we will agree if it is done properly. The Minister also pointed out at some point that they would invite all the parties to agree on the good of democracy. We're sorry to tell you we didn't see it, Minister. It wasn't for us. There was a perfect warfare from the whole system. However, we will not vote against this bill. We are going to say 'the present'. We want to see how the whole process works. We want to make sure that there are progress and we are the first to come out and admit that positive steps have been taken and we will be in this direction. I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur a moment ago and I agreed on a lot of things with her. He emphasised certain things that they do not want the ERT of government propaganda, the above-mentioned orders, and they do not want the reality to be constructed. We would really like it very much and we would like it all. Sadly, we have accepted them on our side, we have experienced them at our expense. We are in favour of these views, we are in favour of these positions. So I repeat our position. Recruitment of workers who must rightly be reoccupied. But we have a great question as to whether they can be paid, where the resources will be found, for these people to be properly paid, because we see that so far we have many economic problems. I wish a solution would be found. I want to hang up with something specific. It has to do with the famous 'DIGEA'. It is the company operating the electronic transmission platform. You know very well that there are certain private 'large sharks' stations - I repeat - who do what they want in the public life of our country. No one has dared to hurt by now. Golden Dawn has opposed them. The price we paid for it was to get in jail and get kicked out so much. I want to ask a rhetorical question. You all wonder why all systemic channels got so much bile against the Golden Dawn. Why are they so democrats and they have not been able to stand up to us in this democratic framework that they have done, or have we been the only ones to say things that we meant and knew that if we are allowed to do so? That's all we can think of some specific facts. Let us stress our opposition to this assignment. Let us stress that the amount called for by DIGEA is EUR 18 million for the next 15 years, that is, it represents around EUR 222,000 per year, while the minimum cost according to an independent valuer should be at least EUR 715 million. These are at the disposal of the Minister. He knows it, of course, better than I do. But it is up to the government to discuss them, to review the competition, to see where it goes undisturbed in many parts of this sector - to start somewhere and finally to produce a cleansing. The Golden Dawn is in front, it is present and will always be present in the struggle that is taking place, for justice to be attributed to any area in the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. I want to inform you that the listing of speakers has been completed. There are already seventy-two Members registered. We will then discuss and decide on the procedure to be followed. The special speaker of the party, Mr. Spyros Dannelis, has the floor. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. I imagine we all agree that the Greek Parliament does not legislate vacantly. The clay is empty, the time is running out, the no return point, I think it's in front of us and we're approaching it. We now have the official confession of taking over centrally the negotiation by the Prime Minister with Ms Merkel, we have also had the dramatic statements by Vice-President Drasakis on the actual bankruptcy of the negotiation, as is the case so far. I think it is necessary as never before for the Greek Parliament to be officially informed by the government, by the Prime Minister, because the negotiations are under way, at least by the political leaders. The ERT bill is added to a chain of bills building a party state with recruitment of all kinds. But here, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have another public body. We have a public information agency and not a party propaganda. There are many who say that the views, proposals and policies implemented for public service broadcasting indicate and reveal a lot about the nature and identity of every political force. And above all, they indicate their relationship with democracy. If that is the case, the conclusions for the first time, a left-wing government on the basis of the draft law, I don't think it's flattering. And it is certain that the public service broadcaster will be the first loot on which any newly elected government will be affected to plunder it, to unravel it again from the outset. It will be Klathmonos Square of the 21st century, that is, regardless of the good intentions of the Minister. Let's make a brief back flash that can help us in the debate. The many history of Greek public service broadcasting is characterized by the pathogens that afflict almost all the public bodies in the country. State mentality, partitioning, collaboration, customer system. But it has a peculiarity. Genetic problems have determined its development and shaped a suffocating umbilical cord with the respective government over time. The radio was born in the midst of the Metaxas dictatorship, and the TV, mediated by the seven-year-old dictatorship. Creative exceptions never became the rule for public broadcasting, unfortunately. This course cannot be forgotten and consecrated ex post, especially by highlighting the exceptions and concealing the pathogens, because it was interrupted in a violent, completely authoritarian and unacceptable manner on 11 June of '13 when the black was chosen against the liquidation and reform in operation of a problematic body. The problems that emerged subsequently were due to the fact that there was no plan for the next day. However, the evolution of the NERIT period was not determined by fate. On the contrary, it was also a lost opportunity with responsibility from the then government and its choices, given that the institutional framework, which had been adopted as a matter of urgency, was the most advanced one than the previous ones. Instead of leading to a modern and democratic institutional framework, it is simply reestablishing the brand name ERT and some of the injustices of June '13. In addition, the bill forms a body entirely dependent on the respective government, which also has no guarantee of viability in terms of its financial size and quality and the composition of its staff. "What did you have, Yannis, what I've always had," that is. Even in a worse version. But let's look at them one - starting with suffocating dependence: First. Why do we have a minister in charge of public broadcasting? Which other developed country has similar ministerial powers? What European country is an absolute boss of public service broadcasting a Minister? Where did the strategic plan for public service broadcasting heard be approved by the relevant Minister? Two. The bill insists on the abolition of the supervisory board provided for by the Law. Date of birth: 4173/13. Do you know that the majority of developed countries have a bipolar structure in the governance of their public broadcasting? Do you know that this scheme has been gradually introduced to ensure that they are independent? Obviously you know that, you just don't want that independence. Third. The Board of Directors you are proposing is the only body in the new ERT, depends and is appointed by the Government. The Minister makes the call, the candidates are not made public, the Minister is recommended, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency expresses an opinion and the Minister finally chooses. In fact, we learn from reports, how you intend to publish these posts within a three-day period. I don't know if it's true, but it's getting even tighter. Do you consider this method to be a modern European democratic and consensus? Regardless of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, we can legislate, so that the Committee of Institutions and Transparency of Parliament decides by a majority of 3/5, which is possible, for the selection of members of the Board. Fourth. Where and how far do we return to the time of party positioning in the company's positions of responsibility? Why don't you tell me that it is accidental that every reference is missing in the way in which the members of the new ERT are selected. In many cases, the bill refers to a public notice, a call of interest, and so on. For directors, managers, coordinators and others, absolute silence prevails. We don't think it's random. You are obviously seeking these posts to be carried out by the CEO or the board appointed by the Minister, namely by the Minister himself. Let us now go to the second major problem of the bill, the lack of viability in both economic and staff composition. And of course we all realize that it is wrong to build bills in sand. In relation to the deadlock in economics. Based on what the explanatory statement of the draft bill says about wage costs, the project simply does not come out. So why don't you tell us what you're going to do? Will you proceed to a large increase in the fee in the medium term? Will you reduce in a short time the number of staff you will hire or will you stop paying part of the State Budget Reimbursement Fee? The latter would mean negotiation or even conflict with the institutions, equivalent measures, which the Minister in the committee has ruled out. I will say a few words in order to understand the problem, in particular, which means numbers. The public service broadcaster is within the scope of the 2015-2011 Medium-term Financial Strategy, which reflects the thresholds and commitments made in terms of revenues and expenditures of all general government sub-sectors. For this reason, according to the NERIT's strategic plan, revenues from the compensation fee were projected to amount to about EUR 200 million per year, and some 105 million of them would run into the government budget surplus and about 95 million per year would remain in NERIT. The design and obligations are now inherited by the ERT. On the basis of this plan, the NERIT strategic framework for the five years provided for EUR 18 million annually as average wage costs, 32 million for inflexible operating costs, 35 million for a programme, 8 million for investments and 10 million for taxes. Now that wage costs go up to 60 million, as mentioned in the draft's report, you are hardly covering the company's wage and inflexible costs, as their sum is 92 million and there is nothing left for programme and investment. So we want to create a self-reporting company that does not work for the benefit of the citizens who are also donors, but simply pay for its employees? We warn that this is the good scenario, because the reality states that PPC for 2014, instead of the 200 million anticipated, charged only 166 million for the reward fee and eventually collected, due to interruptions in connection with connections and unpaid accounts, just 132 million euros. In short, there were 27 million left for the public service broadcaster. Put the reality next to the bill, and the deadlock, I think, are quite clear, hence the questions I have put for introduction. In relation to the deadlock on the staff, the bill reinstate those and those who were in ERT in June 2013, which are added to and those who were hired to NERIT under an indefinite contract. We agree, and even suggest that they should be added by five-month contracts and those who had a fixed-term contract in 2013, and few of the public television broadcasts did not come from ERT and did not have or did not have time to obtain an indefinite contract with NERIT. This decision must be supplemented, as I have said, for the sake of restoring the injustice of the 'black'. It does not mean, however, that restoring the injustice to be done is also rational, as it comes to create a new company without the paths of the past and without ignoring the economic facts that we described. Some of the questions raised: Is it possible to invite people to return to the ERT without having decided what amounts they have to repay from the compensation they received? Can it not be a precondition for the adoption of the relevant Ministerial Decision to initiate the return procedures? Are you going to grant these allowances, which will be scandalous or will you retrospectively decide, as provided for in the bill, so that the new company moves around in animated sand as far as its staff are concerned? Can you not provide for a time horizon, for example, for checking certificates and decisions for those who return? Is it possible for you to ignore what has been said and especially you have said as opposition to the NERIT contests? Is it possible to ignore what is known for the simulations of the presidential decree of Pavlopoulou, in order not to forget, the one who doubled the public and contributed to the bankruptcy? Let us just remind you that there are no permits for reference to the Arele Ice for seven hundred out of the thousands of five hundred decisions in question and are in progress. Is it possible to ignore that the new ERT will have the highest percentage of administrative personnel worldwide? Is there a modern company that is viable with 30% of the employees being administrative - financial? Is it not possible for the draft law to provide for procedures with a specific time horizon in order to remedy this problem? Is it not possible to plan the new ERT on the basis of all the previous ones, but also on the basis of the design of the new ERT, from which the needs for human resources, evaluation and mobility for part of the staff will arise, so as to deal with merital and efficiently where it meets real needs? So we in Potami say 'yes' to restoring the injustices of 'black', but we say 'no' to the reproduction of distortions, pathogens and dead ends of the past. I could quote for a long time further problematic elements of the bill, in addition to its two central problems I mentioned earlier. I won't, so we can focus on the basics. After all, we will come back to the actual debate. But I would like to make two further references. Enter, for example, an extended number of employees' representatives on the Board of Directors, returning to the periods of association and subsequent trade-union corruption, which have cost so much. You are, of course, telling us that representatives will be elected by direct universal suffrage. But that's what happened in the past, and it was only one representative. You also tell us that representatives will not be members of a trade union. But this can be dealt with by manoeuvre and rotation of a simple role-sharing. The second thing I would like to add is that the bill cuts us off from the existing processes and processes in Europe's broadcasting space and, more generally, from the developed world. Nowhere is a competent Minister, and no appointment by the Board of Directors is an unknown practice. In the majority of cases, there is a bipolar form of governance to ensure independence. Cooperatives do not exist. Detailed references are made to the strategic and operational plan which other designs serve. Everywhere there is a mediator, that is, the viewer's attorney and the listener's. Everywhere there is a credible ethics committee. Most of all, public broadcasting is for the benefit of citizens and not to serve their government and employees. Unfortunately, I have to say it. If the bill is adopted as it stands, it will lead to the Greek public broadcasting near the respective standards of underdeveloped or even authoritarian states. It will also turn us in this area, unfortunately, into a delayed evacuation of Europe. In the committee we tabled ten specific amendments which healed many of the faults of the draft law, to which I referred earlier. Despite constant reassurances - and today - by the Minister for his consensual disposition, there has been a insistence on the provisions of the bill promoting a public service broadcasting and, in fact, a government and ministerial service, which will also have a major problem of economic viability from the outset and a question of number and quality of staff. The acceptance by the Minister of one of the ten amendments we have tabled, the abolition of the 25% cap on external production, a cap which obeyed the world's original concept of the fact that the public body can produce on its own the maximum percentage of the product it transmits, does not change our assessment. So we are also reintroducing them in plenary, and we hope that the Minister and the government will accept and rethink some of them. Otherwise, we fear that you are again setting up a completely mortal company and we fear that the neo-colonialism of the bill, which breaks into social networks, will not be excessive. As far as our vote is concerned, we in the committee have reserved ourselves for the plenary, until the end of the debate. But if you insist, then we have no other way to go from the total vote. Finally, we have gladly heard, Minister, just before, your will to regulate the scandalous broadcasting landscape. I would remind you that during the debate in the committee Potami raised it as a matter of honour for our political system, so that we can now end with this unreliability which we are creating in society in relation to the owners of the media and the way in which we operate the channels and radio stations in Greece to date. We therefore welcome this commitment. But we have one point to make. There is no need for legislation. Suffice the adoption of a presidential decree and a ministerial decision, as provided for in current law. But something else is requested. Because the prerequisite for this arrangement is, at last, to settle another scandal that's been chasing us for over ten years. In other words, the legality of the operation of the National Broadcasting Council. And we think, Minister, that this House can secure the very increased majority required, in other words, by the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency, as long as the proposal, which the government will bring, of course, is a proposal for persons of sovereignty and sovereignty - so that the legal board of the PSE can finally choose. And the opposition parties should take the responsibility of supporting or not supporting this new council so that the legitimacy of its function is fundamentally restored. I would like to submit this document for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u32	Tell us what you're filing, Mr. Dannelly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u33	They are proposals for amendments to specific nine articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and have been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students - and I see more students than students - and five teachers - from the 2nd High School of Ano Touba Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, let me make some announcements before I give the floor to Mr Giokas who is the next rapporteur on the part of the Communist Party of Greece. There are some letters from colleagues requesting permissions for absence. Mr. Mitaris, under Protocol No 1800/24-2015, asks him under Article 76(3) of the Rules of Procedure for a transition to Istanbul, in order to visit the Ecumenical Patriarchate from Monday 4 May 2015 until Tuesday 5 May 2015. Mr. Andreas Michaelides, with his letter No 1799-24-2015 in the two-day 4 and 5 May 2015, informs us: "I have been invited by the local Church of Chios to participate in a mission composed of representatives of the island, which will invite the Ecumenical Patriarch Mr. Vartholomios to visit Chios. I would be obliged to be authorised to participate in the mission to visit Istanbul during this period.' By letter dated 1826/27-2015, Mr Alexandros Kontos asked him to be granted a residence permit for personal reasons from 10 May to 17 May 2015. By letter of 1829/27-2015, Mr Constantine Tsiara asked for his permission from a short-day absence abroad from Thursday 30 April to Sunday 3 May 2015 in order to go to Rome, Italy for personal reasons. These are all considered as permits for absence abroad not as permits of a justified absence from the work of this House, and I think that permits for their absence abroad are unanimously given by this House. So the House approves?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u35	The House unanimously approved the permits requested. We will now give Mr Gioka the floor, and after his introduction we will make the other announcements. The special speaker - rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas - has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone, and we do not need to mention and describe the authoritarian way in which the ERT was closed with the joint ministerial decision of 11-6-2013 on the basis of a previous legislative act, a joint ministerial decision that has neglected legal consequences throughout this period and has been altered at times by creating a legal maze in fact on very many issues and on employment, and on structures, and the company's organograms and assets. Our position, which we have consistently demonstrated throughout the committee, and which has been a demand for all these months and for workers, is that a genuine revival of ERT means abolishing all this legislative framework, namely the legislative act, the joint ministerial decision and all the acts that have led to the abolition of ERT. That is why we have also tabled an amendment fully satisfying this request, namely that there should be a full revival of the ERT and its structures, a complete restoration of the number and rights of workers at the time of the 'black'. From there on, of course, there are also changes in the problems that exist. And instead of the government doing what, which, after all, had promised, instead of abolishing these acts, which were, I would remind you, and the content of a proposal for a law of the SYRIZA itself, actually gives cover to the practices and methods of the previous government. It does so with its policy on the particular bill, on the question of ERT, which does not repeal the previous legislative framework, but does so with its overall policy which, by means of legislative acts, in the same way as the coup d'état it denounced, leads to a paralysis of public bodies, such as ERT, leads to a deadlock of municipalities, regions, hospitals and universities, with the well-known legislative act adopted by the Members of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks last week. It leads, therefore, to a dead end to the workers in these public bodies, leading to a dead end to those who depend on the needs of these public bodies and all that to pay the instalments, to serve the creditors' requirements, to serve in the final analysis a debt which the Greek people did not create and must not make any sacrifice in order to repay this debt. We reiterate what we have said to all tons and to the committee, namely that ERT does not reopen as it was until the time of 'black'. Because ERT wasn't just the name, no matter how much the names have their value. ERT was its infrastructure, it was its functions, it was its employees, it was the rights of these workers who had already been ridiculed with the previous government and who are even more mocked by today's bill. The Government, today, invoked legal and legal reasons for not having brought about a draft law abolishing the common ministerial decision. On the contrary, he brought a bill on the basis of the previous NERIT law. In our view, all these reasons are pretexts. We have tabled an integrated amendment that could be exploited by the current government. But even if we accept that the government has brought this bill, in this way for reasons of economy and speed, the problem remains. It is clear from the same provisions of the draft law that ERT does not revive as it was. To avoid misunderstanding, 'as it was' refers exclusively to structures, functions, workers, workers' rights, and it does not refer to other issues of control, manipulation, mismanagement which ERT had and which we as a party and as a movement had repeatedly denounced because we were from the first victims of these practices. Firstly, the ERT infrastructure and functions are not restored. It is already laid down in Article 1 that ERT will include pan-Hellenic regional television and radio stations and a number of other issues by decision of the Board of Directors. It does not say anywhere in the draft law or in the explanatory statement that we were going back to the structures and functions of 11 June 2013. In addition, the Minister himself at a committee meeting spoke about 'cooperatives', referring to ERT structures. What does "sympathies" mean? It obviously means that some structures will merge, meaning that there will be some kind of partnership, much more when there is a permanent commitment to the draft law on balanced budgets, for ERT's contribution to the state budget, and therefore openly leaves the possibility of a series of infrastructure, functions, activities, which are necessary in our view, which do not comply with the logic of the balanced budgets, but are necessary, because there must be a radio station in a number of areas, all these are at risk of not being implemented, on the basis of the current draft law. Indeed, this may also have consequences for workers. In a structure which does not open or merge with another, the worker who may want to rethink it will, when it will result in adverse effects, while in contrast to many points in the bill it is stated that the ERT created will also be competitive, i.e. operates on the basis of the competitiveness criteria, in a market, in a business jungle, which breaks down television frequencies. However, the objective and criterion of competitiveness is incompatible - and this has proved to date - with the need for information, entertainment, the safeguarding of workers' rights, which public broadcasting should serve. Secondly, it is a question of workers: from the workers who were two hundred, who were the fixed-term contractors, they are definitely out of the question and simply make a vague promise that when ERT is needed they will have a priority. Workers who came out with a reduced pension are also left out, while the Minister was committed to seeing and resolving it. What does that mean for the reduced pension? It means that if a worker, under the insecurity and unemployment scheme in which he has been in the past years, chose to go out with a reduced pension, because in any case this was a solution, but he would like to return, in the form of this bill today, to ban him from doing so. The revival of contracts takes place since the law was published and is not retroactively retrospectively in the time that the ERT has closed, and this is very important for the recognition of duty time, insurance time. It is not a symbolic or formal matter, it is a matter of having the commitment that the contracts will be revival from the closing time of the ERT and not from the time the bill is published. The reintegration of workers will concern the person rather than the post. In other words, if a worker does not want to return or return after a certain period of time, then there is no void to be replaced, because the previous establishment plans have been abolished by all these legal interventions, because there is no permanent staff but only staff with indefinite and fixed-term contracts. And I imagine that the workers who fought in recent years to open up ERT did not only fight for themselves. They fought so that the ERT has staff, function and workers after them, even when they retire or stop being employees. Except that's not guaranteed by today's bill. These workers will be involved in the Memorandum of Enforcement Acts, which the previous government has implemented, i.e. the Law on Memorandum of Understanding. 4024/2011, which provides a basic salary for the compulsory education category EUR 780 and a corresponding escalation for the other categories, without calculation of pre-services, collective rights and a number of other issues. That is to say, the memorandum of application laws, which have also been implemented in NERIT by the previous government, and which are also applied by the current government to ERT. In fact, you exclude journalists for this simple reason: why are you following the practice of previous governments, his misguided practice "divide and ruled". Third issue, operating regulations. Nor do these come back, which were resolved by collective bargaining. All this, on the basis of Article 8, will be drawn up by the CEO. Here, Minister, you are making this smuggling smuggling: While the original draft law discussed in the committee by these operating regulations had been excluded from the working regulations, the current draft law that you bring to plenary and the working regulations will be within what will be drawn up by the CEO. In fact, you are making this'modification' without having previously informed the committee of the legislative improvements you have submitted. Exclude from the rules of operation signed by the Director in Article 8, work regulations are drawn up in contrast to the original draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u37	And what's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u38	Fourth issue, assets. There, too, is a blurred landscape. On the occasion of this, we have repeatedly asked the committee for information on the former ERT's assets, to see what assets they have gone to the public, what assets they are returning and what assets they do not return, to see with what possibilities the new company starts, what possibilities the digital signal has, so that they do not depend on the "DIGEA" and finally see whether and how free they are from private interests. We were given no information about the assets and what is to be done. So, based on all this, it would be good to stop this advertising fraud that you apply against coron and other issues. ERT does not revive, as was the demand of both the workers and of course of the world that rightly expressed solidarity with the workers' struggle. I repeat once again: far from us any logic of acquittal or fairness of practices that existed in the ERT, particularly as regards the political orientation and manipulation that existed. As part of the old ERT - and NERIT of course - workers' struggles, the struggles of the working people's movement, were not placed. On the other hand, the dominant policy had a position, the annihilation of the European Union had a position, anti-communism had a position. We remember the documentaries of the old ERT and, if you like, we as a party were the first to denounce such practices. These problems were, they were named, they were responsible for the former governments, and of course they had their paramedics, the court officers within the ERT itself. Ladies and gentlemen, that is another thing, namely the problems that exist, and it is another one in the name of these problems alone, this situation - which the government invokes, but does not change - to be circumvented and to shrink the functions of the ERT. That's what the government does. He says that we do not want to go back to the ERT, but what he actually does not come back is what was left of rights. On the contrary, he goes back to suffocating government control, or rather continues, because he never stopped. He's going back to the multi-speed workers. He's back in anti-government practices. He goes back to the work hostage, and the work hostage leads to a political hostage. There's no need for the Minister to call and give orders. There are other ways of ensuring control of public broadcasting by the political will of the government concerned. It returns to partnerships in a private way, and even in an uncontrolled manner, because the regulation laid down in the original draft law was abolished at 25% for these partnerships. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is no accident - in a minute's time, Madam President - that you have accepted a proposal from the Potamian Parliamentary Group, namely that of the party that has the most neo-liberal view on broadcasting. This proposal to abolish the 25% threshold was their own proposal and you accepted it, thus opening up the way to full immunity and arbitrary interference with private partnerships in the field of broadcasting production. So you're coming back to this! And because there has been a debate and a reason for what ERT we want - the SYRIZA rapporteur mentioned - this ERT. What you say to the reasons, of course, matters, but it is not the basic one. The main thing is what the law says and the law says. He says partnerships with individuals, says for competitiveness, says for multi-speed workers with paid rights, says for suffocating government control. That's what the law says! So this ERT you want, because this ERT is made on the basis of this draft law. You flagged your self-management and self-organization at the ERT. Let us take a taste of self-management, self-organization and independence: the adoption of the statute by means of a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Finance and State. General Assembly of the ERT, composed of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State and the Deputy Minister of Culture. Article 7: Of the seven members - the chairman, the CEO and three members - are appointed on the substance by the Minister of State and approved by the formal procedure - which is a sex of figurative opinion by the Committee on Institutions and the Transparency of Parliament, where the government majority, i.e. the parties that constitute it, has the majority. If that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, it is an indication of independence, self-management and self-organisation, and the young children are also laughing. He is a completely controlled body from the choices of the government. There is no independence, no pluralism, no self-management or self-organization. Of course, there must also be a conclusion here for all those who speak in good mood for independence for objectivity, etc. What's that conclusion? No government as the main expressionist of the state - this state - is willing to dismiss a valuable instrument for propaganda, such as ERT. Because ERT is not just a business. It is a mass media embedded in the state propaganda mechanism and serves the ideological and political aims of the current system. There is no state and there cannot be a particular urban state without having its own television which is smaller or larger. Because the state cannot leave the issue of information to private channels alone, which of course ideologically and politically are in the same camp. However, the interconnecting of individual channels with individual entrepreneurs and thus with the specific objectives they serve does not allow them to play the role of collective expression of the interests of the ruling class. So the fact that state television is always relatively free from private interests does not mean that it is objective, much more does not mean that it is prologue. I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying this. The JRC insists that the legislative act and the joint ministerial decision should be repealed. ERT must be opened with all staff, guaranteeing their rights and all its structures. ERT can make use of these means and staff to truly serve the people's right to information, but also to support the multi-cultural artistic creation and entertainment of the people. Of course this must be done and must continue to be the subject of a claim, but this struggle must also be linked to radical changes in both the economy and the state in order to form the media, the frequencies and the telecommunications systems of popular property and not the property of the monopolies. In the present context, no rules can be introduced on substance or rules. It is only the Government that will possibly play the role of the wheelchair of the business interests. That's what you're doing. You'll be the trolleymen of business interests. For all these reasons, we say that we disagree and vote against almost all the articles in the bill. In principle, we will only vote'representations' for the reason that there is this substitution of workers and only on the condition that specific legislative improvements are made to the bill that the revitalization of contracts takes precedence over any other legislation. And we say this because for six hundred and fifty-two workers working in Special Management there is provision in the law that their contracts are forbidden to become an indefinite period of time and are justifiable. Therefore, there must be a legislative improvement in order to ensure that the provisions for workers go beyond any other legislation. If that's not the case, these people are in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u39	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Communist Party of Greece. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks to Mr Nikolaos Mavragani, let me make some announcements to the House regarding the transmission of procedural documents, after I ask the relevant services, on the one hand, that the procedural documents should not be published before their announcement, on the other hand, concerning criminal proceedings and, on the other hand, which are confidential in the course of the procedure. On 3 April 2015, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights under the number 1503 of the Parliamentary Protocol and its Protocol No 20940 shall forward, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Articles 1 and 4 of the Act. 3126/2003 on criminal liability of Ministers, Protocol No 1062/27/32015 of the Prosecutor's Office of the Ice Arena and Protocol No 155344/19-2-2015 of the Prosecutor's Office of Athens with the attached ABMA number 2013/3138 It is noted that this is a criminal case-file, which has been formed on the occasion of the report from 31-7-2013, a complaint and the 10-3-2014 additional memorandum by Ioannis Bakarakou of Stavros, resident in Athens, as a legitimate representative of the public limited company with the distinctive title "THAVAS STANDARDIS S.A.", based in Athens on St. Konstantinos 6, against former Ministers: (a) Development of Constantine Hatzidakis, (b) Economics Ioannis Stournaras and (c) Rural Development and Food Athanasios Tsautaris, as well as their predecessors. Also, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights with his 7-4-2015 and protocol number 25405, registered in Parliament on 9-4-2015 under Protocol No 1565, shall transmit, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution and Articles 1 and 4 of the Act. 3126/2003 on criminal liability of Ministers, Protocol No 1495/30-3-2015 of the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, as well as the letter of the Prosecutor's Office of Prosecutors Rhodopes dated 16 March 2015, attached to ABME No 14/6 case-law. This is a report by the Prosecutor of Prosecutors Rodopi, which the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay passes, noting that he does not in advance adopt the judgments expressed in advance in relation to the existence of evidence at the expense of the mentioned Minister. The criminal case-file produced following a written complaint by George Pafis of Constantine, an educational, resident of Komotini, and relating to the former Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Andreas Loverdos, on the allegedly committed offence of the duty infringement, allegedly committed during the adoption of a ministerial decision on secondments of educational years 2014-2015 in the performance of his duties, with this marking, which I mentioned earlier, the relevant document of the transferee of the Ice Award. Also, in relation to the previously announced criminal case-law concerning Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Stournaras and Mr Tsavritaris, as well as their predecessors, this case-file relates to the alleged offence of infidelity in the service on a continuing basis with a total item exceeding EUR 120,000 and is allegedly committed in the performance of their duties as Ministers. Finally, with its 20-4-2014 and protocol number 27375, which was registered in Parliament on 22-4-2015 under protocol number 1764, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr Nicos Paradromatopoulos sends, in accordance with the provisions of Article 86 of the Constitution and Articles 1 and 4 of the Act. 3126/2003 on criminal liability of Ministers, Protocol No 1659/14-2015 of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office of Prosecutors of Athens, annexed to ABMIA No 2015/3074, criminal case law, formed following the letter of 18-11-2013 of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office and of 19-3-2014 Memorandum of 19-3-2014, Georgios Papanimakis of Joseph, resident Pantanas Amari Rethymnos, concerning the main George Papandreou, Luke Papadimos and Antony Samaras, former Prime Minister, George Papakonstantinos, Evangelos Venizelos and Ioannis Stournara, former Minister of Finance, and Dimitrios Avramopoulos, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, acting as the former Minister of State, acting as the successor of the alleged foreign business. I would remind you that it is pending for these motions to have a parliamentary procedure so that they do not fall on the well, but are studied and dealt with. I now give the floor to the next rapporteur, the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikos Mavragani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, this bill for us was a symbolic project, because in the past five years, and while the Greek society and economy sat down, left to endless and endless internal devaluation, without, of course, development and productive reconstruction measures, all the internal system block, which were made up of most of the systemic media, assured us, with the support of a portion of the political staff of the country, that everything is going well. Indeed, they continued to do so, without having received the democratic message of the society that sent it after the elections on 25 January 2015, and after the elections. For the first time we have seen the systemic media in a first-elected government, and indeed nationally-owned, opposing rabies resistance and unprecedented criticism of any other than goodwill. It is therefore a clear project to restore balance in the media field, which in any case, as the Constitution demands, must include a strong, multi-faceted, multi-speaking, democratic in all the guiding principles of public television. This public television, which, in the context of the downturn in public administration, was decided by the previous government to shrink, too, and to dissolve, had to be reconstituted in the way it is reconstituted, leaving behind, of course, the pathogens of the past and focusing on the legislation towards them and the principles which will be directly formed into them. However, this piece of legislation had to be directed towards the specific orientation of the re-establishment of the ERT, the reopening of the ET3, the Macedonian ET3, the re-establishment and reopening of all regional stations. Because not only was there the symbolism of ET3 in the representation and symbolism of our Macedonia, but it was the local stations that promoted the promotion of local issues, the local cultural features, which of course need every society that wants to restructure the country. It is obvious that in principle the Independent Greeks will vote in favour of this bill. It is a bill, which is based on the most fundamental principle of humanism, which the political leadership had so much forgotten in previous years. He had given up numbers against people. Of course, when you are restoring injustices, this restoration of injustice cannot be a kart, but it must include this public television too, not only in order to satisfy the constitutional requirement of Article 15 of the Constitution, but also in order to symbolize that public television, information, equal and equal information, which includes all sides, even those we disagree. Because that's the majesty of democracy. And it must include them, and this mentality must pass through the principles that will be developed and agreed at the next time for the operation of the ERT. So the information programme, which is equal and in all directions - I repeat - absolutely had to take flesh and bone. It absolutely had to include those who were made redundant by law. And he did. He had absolutely not to blame those who worked there, even temporary. And he takes care in this direction too. It also had to incorporate all the cultural elements it represented, included and embossed by the ERT at the time of the Constitution all the previous years, as well as the ordinary legislator. And he did. So, in its basic elements, in its main principles, in its guide lines, this bill is in the right direction. It is in the direction that no one can object to a goodwill. But I am very surprised to see the systemic media seeing this reconstructively - and I justify it and justify it. However, I also see some political voices aligned with them and honestly there I cannot understand the reasoning. At a time when the national government gives a huge battle in all its fields and tries to exploit all its diplomatic weapons, the rabies reaction of the systemic media had to extinguish even those opposition parties in the direction of plundering their defence lines and voting for this bill, at least in the first place. So, to be honest and clear, with whatever imperfections one can find in his personal mind, he can only see that this media field as it has been formed in previous years has been distorted and unequal. As unequal were the balances of some of them. Banks, however, were found which financed them, especially during that timely and suspicious period of election and post-election. You therefore understand that if something could change the attitude of the systemic media against this piece of legislation, perhaps, Minister, it was if you deleted Article 16. There may indeed be some systemic media and some political portion, perhaps, were seen with a different eye this piece of legislation. With these considerations I close, Madam President, Ministers and colleagues, reminding us that the Independent Greeks will very clearly vote in favour of this piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. I call on the PASOK rapporteur, Mr Georgios Arvanitidis, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u42	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current economic reality of the country does not know whether it makes us all capable of discussing in this Chamber today a bill which concerns: 'Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure'. 2190/1920.’ Our country is in a total economic deadlock. In about ninety days there is a significant deterioration in the real sizes of the economy, a strategic government encapsulated, intense accumulation of problems, endless and fruitless negotiations, reviving the scenarios for a possible grexit. The danger for Greece is described through three main words: bankruptcy, humiliation and marginalisation within the euro. In this context, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is trying to show that it is loyal to its communication commitments, that within the country it is promoting reforms, restoring public life to the reopening of public television, thereby ensuring pluralism and pluralism. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises to all of us, but also to the citizens: How can we table such bills, without guaranteeing the essential prerequisites for the functioning of the economic life of this country, when in order to pay the wages and pensions of this month you get money from where you can, by breaking down the last remaining buttons, draining every trace of liquidity from the market, from the real economy? How, today, on 27 April 2015, can we talk more generally about re-entry, when the country's state-of-the-art station and the whole of the European Union is 11 May? I wish there was a plan and a plan to avoid our country being the worst! I wish. However, the data and meetings of the Finance Ministers in Riga, Latvia, precede us for very negative developments. We must end this game of endless negotiations, bold and courageous to make the necessary decisions to get the country out of the economic, political, negotiating deadlock we are in today and finally tell the Greek people the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, the sudden closure of public television in June 2013 in a truly, truly unacceptable, anti-democratic way caused shock in Greek society and the family. The strong protests of the government partners - to remind you here of the then PASOK announcements - the glorious reactions of the opposition and of the ERT workers and in general of the world did not manage to prevent black colour on our screens at midnight on June 11, 2013. This authoritarian act of the Samara government proved to be extremely ineffective afterward. In addition to the trembling caused by the tripartite government by the withdrawal of DIMAR and the dismissal of the two hundred and fifty-five workers - on the pretext of the resolution of the public sector - the new shape of public television at the beginning and then NERITT failed to win the anticipated interest of the Greek people or even bring basic features of a modern public service broadcasting with qualitative improvement, functionality and, above all, party independence, despite the provisions of the law that we had supported in Parliament at the time. The PASOK, which was taught by the failures and mistakes of the past - and of course this lesson paid for it in particular - was always in favour of the reorganisation of the Agency, without any opposition to its operation and submitted the Alvizatou project in February 2012, which, after a thorough study of the institutional framework of the ERT, supported its upgrading to two important pillars: first, the release of ERT from any governmental hug, from every party, trade union influence and second, in its renovation, that is, an ERT with a lesser number of employees, with productivity, limiting the waste, more qualitative and with the aim of a greater share of viewing. My position at the moment is based mainly on the question: What kind of public service do we want? Public or government that can relay the government's wishes? Independent? Polyphone? Modern or outdated perceptions and practices? Controlled by the Greek taxpayer or by the respective government? As much as we do not accept as democratic citizens the unacceptable and inappropriate "black" on the screen of ERT in June 2013, this draft law on the reconstruction of public television brings us to old practices of the 1980s and the name - symbolically "ERT S.A.". - and with regard to the provisions on its dependence on government control. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the provisions favouring the holding of the government with the ERT created a trade union and trade union structure which strongly resisted any modernisation, any reduction in the waste, and turned ERT into a polypathic body that spent much more than the product it produced, without having the competitiveness of other channels at a significantly lower cost. I fear that the new draft law submitted to Parliament contains all those provisions which have led ERT to injurious paths in the past. It restores full control of ERT by the Minister of State, who exercises its indirect supervision and, in addition, the Agency's strategic plan will be submitted to him to approve it. Normally, we should discuss in this Chamber the prerequisites and conditions for building a new public television, economically sound and party independent, governed by a transparent, prudence-based rules of operation and ensuring that the citizen is informed in good time. However, the problems in this draft law focus on the logic of strengthening the Minister of State, by once again enabling him to intervene in ERT's administrations, appoint a CEO and dismantle the Supervisory Board, by cultivating once again the sense of distrust among citizens in the intentions and transparent way in which public television operates. You, Minister, 'for the first time on the left', a left-wing radical government, which is an evangelizing change, progress, hope, how is it possible from the first bills you are tabling with the adoption of models that have failed? Or are you trying to implement in the country a policy that controls the media, so as to impose your own view and propaganda? The aim for European data, as Mrs Anna Hadjisofia, a member of the POGI, has said, should be the creation of a television - a model which will give a step to the social groups and those excluded from the intermittent mediatic oligarchy of creators, with a Greek original programme and with emphasis on the independent producers, which are our obligation and the channels, based on European legislation. The aim should also be to create a television that serves the Greek language, quality entertainment, which will produce culture and give emphasis and work to all the people of the area. This is an obligation, given that it is paid by the Greek people. The great question of Greek society, ladies and gentlemen, is the dignity, which unfortunately is not guaranteed by this draft law. The members of the Board of Directors shall be selected without transparency as regards their qualifications, since no candidates shall be posted or publicised. So how will they be chosen? With the well-known practice that has so far been applied, as we see in the announcements of staffing of public bodies and positions in the government, with party, family and clientele criteria. There is not even a public hearing of candidates, as was at least established by previous laws. In the past's dysfunctional practices, the selection of the seven members of the Board is also mentioned, which will be chosen by a simple majority of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, so by a government majority. So do we expect all of us with our old failed recipes to make a competitive television that can at least ensure its basic costs or its character? Or are we going to ensure stable political clientele with all the well-known unpleasant results that led the country, agencies and public service to an economic, cultural and institutional crisis? Furthermore, the institution of the Supervisory Board, which could, if upgraded and improved, be a strong fort in every new government, with young people and you as a new government, with new staff, would send a strong signal of the release of public institutions from party hugs. Finally, all the functions of the management are entrusted to the Chief Executive, and the position of the President is laid down. The question therefore arises as to what their role and what their remuneration is. Do we continue with a purely 'photograph' procedure to serve 'lefts'? We are going through recruitment and remuneration issues. This bill provides for the reoccupation of the thousands of five hundred and fifty-nine formerly dismissals of the ERT. The big question is whether there is an operational plan to prove that all these workers will have employment. Are they all necessary and useful, or will they cause the same suffocation and congestion that led ERT to record losses of more than EUR 9 million? On which evaluation criteria will they be re-appointed, given that ERT officials in active employment have been hired by means of an AEP or by other means of journalistic and artistic notices? Are you creating two different categories of staff in this way? I understand that the question of employment and employment is particularly important to respond negatively. On the other hand, however, you do not have the right to use populist practices at the expense of a people who are ruthlessly taxed and a country in a deep economic crisis. The above are confirmed by the evidence. In 2009, about four and a half thousand people worked at the ERT, while in 2013 two thousand nine hundred, who produced the same job with profits of 57 million in contrast to the damage of 9 million caused by the exorbitant number of workers on a state channel, which is unprecedented for European data. Personally, I cannot condemn the right to work. I think, however, that there should be some data to prevent all ERT's dismissals from being reinstated, so that there is a serious assessment of the structures that will work for the incoming personnel who will be employed in them. Mobility should be provided for surplus personnel and incentives should be given to retire those close to the pension thresholds. Minister, if this is not the case, we will be spectators of the same work, of waste and of immunity, which we will once again bear on the back of taxpayers. Our country needs a genuinely public and independent, multi-speaking quality broadcasting. It needs guarantees of transparency and not good intentions simply from the Minister, which I personally consider to have. He needs a clear business plan. In such a broadcasting we could all agree. We therefore have an opportunity, Minister, to reach the consensus of the political parties, which does not guarantee this bill. For these reasons, we cannot agree in principle to this bill, because it does not create a new, modern public broadcasting, qualitatively upgraded, functionally well-functioning, economically sound and, above all, party independent. Mr Minister, despite your good intention, we are at risk of building a new ERT, building a new RIS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u43	Mr Arvanitides' suggestion completes the position of the rapporteurs at first instance. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that they are now coming and slowly placed in the Chamber, in the upper Western theories, to attend our meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-eight students and students and five teachers from the 9th Municipal School of Kastoria. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now enter the list of speakers. I would like us to make a start-up consultation and make a decision on how the process will continue. On the proposal from the Conference of Presidents, which was adopted by the House at the beginning of the sitting, today's sitting takes place before parliamentary scrutiny, i.e. until 18.00 a.m. when parliamentary scrutiny begins. At 20.00 a.m. is a scheduled event at the Officers' Club, co-organised by the Committee of the Parliament to claim German debts. There, as you know, all the Vice-Presidents of the House participate, which means that there cannot be a parallel meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u44	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u45	Why can't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u46	However, because we have several speakers in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u47	Is this House a stronger instrument or what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u48	However, these cannot be confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u49	I would ask you not to interrupt and because we have students from Castoria who are watching us, I would also ask you to safeguard Parliament's image.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u50	Take care of her first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u51	So I wanted to tell you that we have several speakers. It is not your party, Mrs Vultesis, your party, Mr Gregoraco. Of the seventy-three speakers, fifty-one are from SYRIZA. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u52	Do you have more interest in what to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u53	I'd like to suggest the following...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u54	Madam President, you are the President of everyone, and you cannot nail parties. Once again, do not put a meeting Monday morning, because Members are not in the province. You have many Members in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u55	It'd be better if you didn't interrupt. Someone's finishing, and then another reason is taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u56	Mrs. Vulture, because you've spoken...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u57	Monday morning, we don't want a meeting anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u58	Mrs Vulture, because you have spoken well, it is not to create this inconvenience, which prevents others from speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u59	No, you are making impressions about our MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u60	So let the President make a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u61	Monday morning we do not want a plenary because Members are missing in the provinces!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u62	Then you will not have heard the proposal and you will be asking to listen to it. So the suggestion...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u63	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u64	Mrs Vulture has the floor, which does not allow the procedure to continue unless she speaks at the same time. Give her the floor to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u65	You'll give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u66	Open her microphone in order to satisfy and continue the process. Without being able to do so and in breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are taking the floor, for one minute, to explain to us the staff who have been involved, and it is making you extinguished in this way in the development of the Rules of Procedure of the Bureau. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u67	Madam President, first of all I thank you for giving me the floor. Listen, Madam President. You are constantly making a headway against our parliamentary group. So you said that there were not enough of them. That's not a president's practice. You are President of all Members. Here you are no shareholder or CEO of a company. You are the President of this House who has elected you to direct the process, not to be tangled to their people by MPs. We have asked you Monday morning - I do not know what you are saying at the Conference, but I know from the Members - there are no meetings and there are no meetings, because the province MPs left here Saturday while the planes were gone on Friday night and all this was done. They have to go to their country. You put a meeting Monday morning and then you nail Members - putting my own party first - that they are not here and that they have shown enormous interest in ERT by the SYRIZA Members. I would ask you very much if you would continue to say that you are the President of all Members, you cannot continue to do so, that is to say to the people that while the SYRIZA Members are here, they are not the Members of the New Democracy. But there are far fewer MPs and they're not in the province. There are not so many in Athens, for example, to be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u68	Why, are we Members of Athens II?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u69	I don't know, sir. We have a practice. The woman came from Castoria! What should we do? Monday the plenary must not be held. It's simple. That's not so hard. We always do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u70	First of all, if I were a shareholder, I would say 'we delived', as some people have chosen to say in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Varoufakis says it one day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u72	You obviously did not understand and that is because you are speaking in parallel with the President. So I was saying that there are seventy-three Members of Parliament, and I was about to make a proposal to you, which would actually make it easier for most people to speak, and most of all, it would make it easier for those who belong to the groups with the least registered to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u73	You didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u74	I have made it clear to you that the parliamentary group, which has most registered - overwhelmingly most of them, and that is objective - is the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u75	What do you mean by that? Why do you have to report it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u76	Although this objective is annoying, we will refer to the documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u77	What's the proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u78	Mrs. Antonio, because the children have come from Kastoria, let them follow the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u79	Mrs. Antonio does not accept suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u80	So the proposal is as follows: To continue today until 18.00, to follow parliamentary scrutiny, as planned, and tomorrow morning, at 9.00 a.m., and to proceed with the list by 13.00, so that they can speak as much as possible. The first vote to take place at 13.00 a.m. - in the middle of the second sitting - and to continue with the debate on the articles from 13.00 a.m. to 17.00 a.m. and at 18.00 a.m. so that most of them can speak. This is done by an agreement and accepts that those who are registered to the end and may not be able to speak by 13 a.m. tomorrow, will be proposed and registered in the debate on the articles to be started at 13.00 p.m. with the rapporteurs. Does the House agree to proceed in this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u81	So the House unanimously agrees. It wasn't that hard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u82	It's not unanimity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u83	Not unanimously, Madam President. On a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u84	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u85	May I have the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u86	Mr Koutsoukos is a PASOK Parliamentary spokesperson and calls for a point of order. Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. There is no room for procedural controversy and we will agree on your proposal. However, I have to remind you that simple. Firstly, when you were absent, we discussed the draft law which ratifys the legislative act, without the Bureau doing what you have done today - and you have also done the other time - that is to say finding a quorum, because the Rules of Procedure are not saying anywhere that, in order to start the debate, we find quorum. The Rules of Procedure say that we see the quorum when it is to vote. The second point, Madam President, is this: it was raised on Friday that you were absent, the question of the application of the Rules of Procedure - which you are responsible for - which says that there is no legislative work on Friday and Monday, unless we agree, as we have agreed on the reasons for this, to meet on Friday. We have asked - we have no other force, you are a majority - that the same work should not be repeated, because Members are troubled and cannot carry out their duties. They can't go to their provinces. You ignored it. My third point, Madam President, is this: the question has been raised that it is not possible, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to meet, at the same time as the own-legislative bills, the respective committees, as was the case on Friday. That is what the Rules of Procedure provide for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u88	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u89	Nowhere does the Rules of Procedure provide, Madam President, that what you are dealing with and satisfying your personal needs as Bureau will be imposed on the House by the majority of you. I'm just finishing up with one more thing, Madam President. The current PASOK Members are about 50% of our parliamentary power. So we do not accept the reproach for absence. You should address them to the majority Members who, if they were here at the corresponding rate, now we would be a hundred and fifty, not a forty - abundantly to look like a forty, as the people are saying. In these remarks, we have no objections to the procedure. You're a majority, set it as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u90	So we note that you have no objection to the procedure. We also note your comment on the good practice of not complicating plenary sittings with committee meetings, as well as the procedure in plenary being more organised. I will agree that in the last few days we have departed from this principle. I think that it is up to the Bureau, the House and the government that work better with the Bureau, to elect and rationalise the procedure. So since we have no disagreement and since I also tell you that no matter how bad the Members are, they must be in this House - that is why the people are elected - we will proceed to the vote. I would like to inform you that a first entry has been made by one or one MEP from each parliamentary group, according to what is set out in the relevant Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the House and, in particular, Article 64(2), which says that the rapporteurs and any special speakers and six Members in turn are being promoted by alternate speakers. The six of us are doing it every time'seven' because there are seven groups, and that is why there are changes in the number you will have seen. Some and some Members have informed us that they are both in committee, so they will be served. Mrs. Alonitou with whom has she been replaced?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u91	I'm here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u92	So Mrs. Alonitou is the first speaker from SYRIZA. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mrs. Alonitou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's bill is coming to correct a major blow, the abolition of Greek Public Television two years ago, on the pretext of the then Troika's demands to reduce state budget expenditure. It comes to restore a great injustice, not only against ERT workers, but against the entire Greek people. He comes to restore the right of all Greeks to free and independent objective information, which had so much annoyed the previous government. Rehabilitation is carried out in a way that restores ERT employees, but at the same time is guaranteed and those who have been hired lately. It is also done in such a way as to ensure the payroll of ERT employees from the payroll, thereby stripping the pretext used to close it. Finally, it is clearly aimed at creating an enterprise that will not be a deficit, but operates with a balanced budget. The ERT has some independent - I would say - and invaluable advantages that have not been sufficiently exploited in the past. It's catching all over the territory. It has a file in another European country that would be golden. It has sufficient staff and considerable capacity for internal production. It is well known, respected and trusted in the Hellenism of the Diaspora. If these possibilities are exploited without micro-partial claws, the ERT can present revenues beyond what the reward will give it. To have this possibility, however, there is a need for some flexibility in its operation. Let's not forget that ERT works 24/7 every day without interruption. Newspapers must be on the facts, as they are, at that time. However, the bill does not attempt to create a company that will bring significant profits to the state budget. It's enough for us to take her expenses off. Even in today's difficult economic situation, the main function of public service broadcasting is not profitability, it is the social work of information and culture. If ERT were looking for the mythical profitability, it would not cover every corner of Greece, but would only emit where there is a significant advertising market. He would have no musical ensembles and choir, but he would have filled her program with reality and teleshopping. It would not cover the functioning of the House alive, but would only choose some juicy passages of political topicality. But that is not the role of public service broadcasting. ERT fulfils information, educational and cultural functions that are not valued, ladies and gentlemen, only with money. We will perhaps be told by some colleagues who are embraced by the current neoliberal worldview that everything is valued with money and that every media is judged and valued only on the free competitive market. What they will not tell us, however, is what each commercial media is selling on the free market in Greece. Does it sell information and entertainment, ladies and gentlemen, or does it sell political influence and public contractors? Theoretically, private television broadcasts are provided free of charge to the public and are financed only by advertising. In fact, however, they are also financed by the overruns of public works, also financed by public procurement, are financed by tax reductions and by the use of the frequencies allocated without a normal open tender. If we counted on how much money the Greek taxpayer is financing private commercial television, then we would find that the big scandal is not the old deficits of ERT, which were at least publicly known, but this secret and the later financing of private television by the taxpayers. In some, this side financing was not enough. They wanted to receive another subsidy from the State by closing the ERT to have less competition. Well, that side of the subsidisation won't take it. On the other hand, they will be invited to pay for the use of public service broadcasting, which is a public asset and which is provided free of charge, of course, in exchange for the support of those who give them this good. Ladies and gentlemen, ERT is being forced by today's bill and under the existing conditions to begin a new, difficult phase in the current circumstances. However, from now on, it will not face the unfair competition that private competing companies allegedly own with secret state funding. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all on 11 June, Minister, to be there all celebrating the victory of our people, the victory of our people in defending freedom and democracy, the victory of our people against black and every black in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou. Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a comment in relation to the Minister's reference to 'douches'. So I'll tell you, Mr. Pappa, that the showers are your privilege. We're giving it to you. We don't need them. We must be the voice of reason, the channel of expression of anxiety and concern of the world. Nevertheless, Minister, I do not intend to talk about the issue of public service broadcasting, but I do not intend to go into verbal controversy, although the news is offered for confrontations and conflicts, the news that is shattered by the daily economic suffocation, by the insecurity that citizens feel, by the lack of elementary political strategy in the negotiation process with our partners, by the sad isolation of Greece with the culprit of Eurogroup in Riga. No one should be pleased with the image the country had shown in the last few days, because in Riga, ladies and gentlemen, it was Greece that was isolated, it was Greece that was depleted, and that is what hurts us. Greece is injured, Greece is retreating, and this must stop. Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of ERT, we should immediately propose improvements, put wider concerns that I think can help. The issue is particularly serious and I do not forget that it was from the central issues of political controversy in the previous House. I think that the chapter of this controversy should be permanently closed. It is time to resolve the issue of public service broadcasting. But to answer very specific questions: How do we want it? Party or independent? Precise or simple? Competitive or non-competitive? Questions are not just those. It's a lot more and more crucial. I will begin with the nature of public service broadcasting and with the words of the Prime Minister: "The ERT that we envision will not be an annex to the SYRIZA Press Office, but truly independent and objective in the standards of large, valid and independent public broadcasters." That's what the Prime Minister said when he presented as Opposition SYRIZA's positions on ERT on May 27, 2013. That's what Mr. Tsipras said two years ago. Let us now see how this draft law on ERT approaches these declarations. Firstly, according to the draft law, the administration of the new ERT is appointed by the Government, since the five of its seven members will be chosen on the basis of a recommendation from the Minister, by a simple majority of the present members of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. So with a simple government majority. Secondly, the Minister of State has the immediate supervision of the ERT. He is the President of the General Meeting of the Shareholders and the strategic development plan of the company will be submitted to him. These two points of the bill are, in my view, the most serious. It is what determines ERT's relations with the government, with the government. I could, of course, omit them, as they give the alibi to a next government, continue the status of full dependence on public broadcasting by the government, the Minister and ultimately the Prime Minister himself, but I do not. I have no intention of doing so, and I do not want to address the issue of classical party culture. I would like to emphasise that today there is another opportunity for open, democratic and independent public broadcasting. The government could reinstate ERT, hire those who wanted to hire, do whatever it thinks, but no one would have to abolish the Supervisory Board set up in NERIT and was the security foothold for ERT's independence. If you objected to the functioning of this Council, you simply had to heal its weaknesses, change it, strengthen ERT with the Minister and the Prime Minister. You hand it over to the government. I have nothing personal against Mr. Pappa. Assuming that it can be dealt with in an excellent way. No objections. It will, however, be Mr Papapas a lifelong minister to ensure their independence, by means of rules of person rather than by their goodwill. The bill does not, therefore, provide for the creation of an independent by the Government of a Supervisory Board which would be chosen by transparent procedures and the administration of the ERT. I should like to point out here that this was also a point of view and a proposal from many SYRIZA officials who had previously tabled corresponding proposals. Since I do not have the illusion that the government is now going to make an amendment to it and establish a Supervisory Board, I propose that the Minister of State see this matter as a first priority and bring it to the House as soon as possible, because this regulation constitutes a clear reintroduction of the governmental control of public service broadcasting and clearly deviates from both the logic of the BBC and the announcements of the Prime Minister himself. BBC by Minister-designated administration, they do not go hand in hand. Unfortunately, we have again come to the same unfortunate conclusion. We all recognise the virtues of independent public service broadcasting and once we form a government, we return to the well-known path of ERT's strict governmental control. All of this is very critical and related to nature, to the naturality of the new ERT. They reveal reasonable strong-mindedness. They give birth to concerns and intense concerns. In all of this, we must add a number of other serious problems arising from the closure of NERIT and the reintegration of ERT staff. The chaos that is being created will surely cause new financing needs and a significant increase in spending. This will be reflected in the reward fee for ERT in the power bills, which are already quite high. The government, therefore, had to find ways to reduce these costs, build a simple ERT, in the standards of the respective policy currently being pursued in the European Union. At the moment, in many countries of the West, efforts are being made to rationalise the operation of public television and to reduce its costs. In Portugal, entertainment is granted to the private sector, a simple public Portuguese television will be news, because journalism requires funding and does not directly profit in the way it brings about the entertainment programme. I do not suggest that you do the same because it is out of your mind. I suggest, however, that you show examples of such a reasonable limitation on operating costs. On the other hand, it is evident from the draft law that it is stressed at every opportunity that the ERT will not calculate any costs, no profit, no profit will be limited to any level and will operate completely outside any economic logic. Are we in this state? Are we so galantic on all the issues that we get out of resources? Shouldn't a logic of a bandage arise from somewhere? It's not like that. In other words, in Greece, at a time when we are budgetaryly at the worst possible, instead of saving, we are wasting and at the same time abolishing any control capacity by handing over the new ERT handed over to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible - and I hope, Minister - that you have the best intentions. So accept our serious and thorough criticism. Accept the proposals of many SYRIZA officials who say exactly the same. The new ERT must be independent and the Supervisory Board set up at NERIT must be maintained. Only then will it be demonstrated that the government really wants an independent and modern broadcasting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Mr. Matthaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u97	Madam President, the government is not represented. We have to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u98	Does the government hear that? To interrupt, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Georgiadis, I didn't see that the Minister left. I didn't notice. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Voutsi is here. Mr. Matthaopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much. First of all, I had no wish to raise or comment on issues of parliamentary customs or various objections raised by various groups of Parliament concerning the informal discharge of their parliamentary duties on the first and last day of the week. Since this issue has been raised in causal remarks, I would like to ask everyone who has raised these objections. Why have they not had the same concerns so far, when elected MPs from the Greek people, even though they express their desire to attend the plenary session for various parliamentary procedures, are they not allowed to be given the opportunity by decision of the prosecutor? These people cannot be either in the province or in their constituencies or on an equal footing with any political struggle, and yet they remain unjustly convicted of crimes of opinion. Therefore, what has been heard about the province's MPs, who do not have the time to come to carry out their parliamentary duties here, is to be judged by the Greek people and by the electorate. Secondly, in the presence of the Minister, I would like to remind the House of the proposals made by the Golden Dawn during the debate at the three meetings that took place in the committee on the NERIT bill. I would like to say that a debate on the functioning of the media could also at the same time be a debate on the quality of democracy in general, because when an instrument of public or private character works on democratic terms, we could say that the quality of our democracy is indeed excellent. Otherwise - and there are infinite examples of this - when the media is either plunging a political force into a hostage or operating in the way we have all seen until now, this is not just a question for journalists and trade unions. It is a matter of Members of Parliament and democracy in general. In this case, the Government says that in this bill it wants to give public character to the new NERIT. What does it mean in public? For us in public it means democratic, where 'democratic' means that the institution in question must respect the principles of pluralism, respect the principle of pluralism, and, if anything, make it possible for the interlocutor to oppose any arguments. In the case of Golden Dawn, this never happened. [[Laughers from the ward of the Communist Party of Greece]] Since some laugh ironically, I would remind you that those who are speaking today from the Step by saying that they are the victim of these practices, because they are not given such television time, can, at the same time, ask for the total reduction of the Golden Dawn because they disagree with it politically. Two yards and two weights. So, what about Golden Dawn? I will remind this House of two - three characteristic examples, which demonstrate the size of hypocrisy, but also the authoritarian way in which public broadcasting operates until a precedent. During the election period, a period of extreme polarization, during which the Golden Dawn did not have the opportunity to hold this election campaign on equal terms, we were given the opportunity to hold a press conference at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the first through which we would present some of the political positions and the political programme of the party. Unfortunately, we were informed that this press conference, although there is a provision from the law to be transmitted live, was not broadcast live because - as I was personally informed by someone responsible on that day - the leader of our parliamentary group was not present. He wasn't the chief, not because he was such a desire, but because of the reason he was an unjust condom. The same thing, of course, took place a few days later, when the same press conference at the time of the L.A. and Mr. Tsipras again was not broadcast by public television. To talk about the countless television reports from public television, which respects the public character and exercises the principle of pluralism in which a party was convicted, which, as you saw later, was voted by half a million Greeks, a party that emerged into a third political force in the country, a report which adopted the lyrics of journalists who were literally doing what was going down to their head, without any credibility. And many of these will be judged in court, starting with the trial, which will begin in a few days' time, in May. Of course, we have never been given the opportunity through representatives of either Members of Parliament or officials to respond to the mudology, falsehood and what we have been accused of. In any case, I would like to believe that this is a matter which will be resolved from now on, since the Minister himself told us that it would be resolved. We believe that from now on the presence of the Golden Dawn on public TV panels will be a given one. From there on, there have been a number of things about employment rights. I would like about one minute to develop my thinking, because it is an issue that concerns, not only the Golden Dawn, but also the whole of Parliament. The first thing I have to report is the fact that everyone in here is talking about working rights. They're talking about rights for those who had state frequencies that they sold to shipowners. They're talking about working rights for those who had companies, which they sold out, throwing families on the street. They speak of trade unions, who have no contact with the subject, while at the same time they are being paid or forced to pay the Greek people with hunger wages. They speak of employment rights and recruitment criteria for those who hired or hired under party criteria. There are infinite examples of these infinite New Democracy - PASOK, but there are various things in the current government. It's good to take a seat on this. What does Golden Dawn say about employment rights, about the recruitment of those who have unfairly lost their jobs? It is indeed bad in time for a Memorandum of Crisis to throw away a worker on the street and not to worry about the consequences that this will have for himself and his family. But it is just as unfair not to have rational criteria to judge who is capable of working and who is not productive. And the Golden Dawn - I want to make this clear to remove misunderstandings - has absolutely no interest or reason to shake such matters through parliamentary control when asking questions to the relevant Ministry. I remember a question I asked about private sector workers, particularly those working in the electronic press. We have received the answer from those who are allegedly being cut over the rights of their industry that they do not discuss with people who bear the ideology, such as that of the Golden Dawn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Madam President. With regard to trade unions, Mr Minister, I would like to make a point. We consider it unacceptable in the context of public broadcasting that journalists are employed in private groups. Because not only are they affected and affect public opinion, they are instead adopting a party line, because these interests are clearly, often at the expense of other political forces, which we often see is being done with the Golden Dawn. So you cannot guarantee the public character when it comes to journalists, who are in particular serving private - business interests. Secondly, as we are talking about the financial consolidation of NERIT, which is based on the model of balanced budgets, we must have an open debate on the debts of the channels. We have already seen an incident which causes many questions, but we should finally collectively and promptly see what is happening with the famous issue of channel debt, many of which - particularly in the private sector - are currently illegally operating. In conclusion, I would like to comment on a sentence which I do not remember by whom the Member has heard about the defamation of the country with the lock in NERIT. The country has not been discredited by either the paddock or the black without wanting to degrade the importance of these events. The country was discredited when the whole world witnessed the biggest political project at the expense of a legitimate party. The country was discredited when the Prime Minister gave her orders, Madam President, by phone, to shut innocent people in prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u101	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u102	But unfortunately, for those who orchestrated this gold dawn today is in Parliament and will continue to do its duty as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Amyras has the floor. Let's get Mrs. Canelle ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. It's my maiden speech in the House. And here's how life brings them: I need to talk about ERT. For the ERT that showed me professionally, the ERT I loved very much, the ERT I know from her good and upside down. Today, then, we are discussing the draft law on the reopening of ERT.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u105	Without the emissions...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u106	Why are you protesting, Mr. Micah?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u107	Without the show, you wouldn't be a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u108	You think so?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u109	Please don't have a dialogue. Mr. Michalokoo, please. Mr. Amyras, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u110	I haven't heard of you revolt these days, Mr. Michaloliaco. That's weird to me. In any case, I am coming back to the matter. Today and tomorrow we are discussing the re-establishment of the old ERT. But who ERT? The ERT we loved or the ERT we hated? Because ERT had both pictures. Like god Janus in Rome. The prostate goddess of Rome that had another image, another person outward to the enemies and another inwards. Are you reconstituting the ERT of extroversion, the ERT of international awards with the festivals, where, for example, was scanning the series of George Aegiropoulos' series or reconstituting the ERT of buds? Because it was a long-lasting tradition of each ERT administration, each year to gather the three thousand ERT workers at a big bouzosquet on the beach or Piraeus and the cuckir cheered up. All this is supposed to be part of corporate social responsibility, i.e. in the corporate social situation of previous administrations. So, are we talking about ERT with the world's foundations? Are we talking about the ERT that in 2005 became a global issue when at the telethon of UNICEF and ERT, at which I was privileged to be one of the hosts, did the Greeks raise seven million euros by breaking every world record, or are we talking about the ERT of the other world first? The ERT administrations each year paid EUR 65,000 to three people who had called Eurovision scientific advisers. So we learned that Eurovision needed three scientific collaborators every year and EUR 65,000 of the money paid by Greeks for taxes and fees. Will you reconstitute the ERT of financial indulgence, such as with CNN salaries in local small, unrelated channels? Will you bring back an ERT where emissions decors had a lifetime of two to three months and then disappear? I would like to mention, for example, a cooking show that lasted two and a half months, because it 'was gone out of sight', and the decor of this broadcast cost 100,000 euros. Therefore, we need to see which ERT you intend to reconstitute, refunction. I think your intentions are really good. You're a young man, Minister. You've traveled out. I imagine you've studied outside, too. So you have experiences of a man who to some extent is a cosmopolitan, compared to what surrounds him. I told the committee I'm afraid what you did is you're going to change the wagon. You put a new machine in the car, you also put good wallpapers on it, but unfortunately you placed it on the tested rails, starting with the Minister's office and ending the route again at the Minister's office. Before we come to investigate whether the new ERT is still in the footsteps of the old, I would like to see and consider how many ERTs will reopen. You're not resurrecting an ERT. You're resurrecting one and a half ERTs. The thousand five hundred sixty of the old ERT - with a small or more unknown number of pensioners returning or not coming back - to the seven hundred fifty of NERIT and at least by 15 June you will have the three hundred fifteen contractors of public television. I mean, three in one. And old ERT, and NERITT and public TV. Now let's go see the kind of ERT you want to reconstitute. The preparatory sin that does not allow us to calm down - and we are constantly stressing that, unfortunately, this new ERT will be a government store - is your ministerial responsibility. In fact, you are a successor to Mrs. Vultesis' Ministry of Press, Mrs. Vultesis was the successor of Mr. Hood, and she goes by saying. So, beyond the intentions, is this association of government and a new ERT? Sure. Other speakers have said so, and Mr Dannelis, our rapporteur, also stressed it. You appoint the administration. You appoint a board of directors. That's what he says. Of the seven members, five of you are appointed. The Committee on Institutions simply tells you its opinion. We have proposed that you place beside this board of directors and a supervisory body independent. To be two parallel lines that are not intersected anywhere, with sitters. We proposed that the Safeguards Council... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance. It's my maiden speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u111	You still have one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u112	Yeah, but I'm gonna need more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u113	You have been talking from the seat for the first time, because underneath you are very naughty and you are interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u114	Naughty me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u115	I'll give you some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u116	Good, thanks. It's just that all newly elected MPs had the tolerance of the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u117	I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u118	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u119	You had half a minute with the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u120	I'm not good at negotiating. We'll be told by Mr. Pappas who has taken a final role there. But let me talk. We told you about the Quality Assurance and Independence Assurance Board. It would be a safety net, so that every elected administration or every minister who succeeds you, no matter how well-intentioned he is, does not make his head. Article 5: Three euros the reward fee on PPC's accounts to pay the ERT. This is a setup - a trap. It belongs to the discretion of the Finance and State Ministers, the possibility of increasing it. So another direct association of government and ERT. You have reiterated Article 10 for the Social Audit Board. I searched, Mr Pappa, I ate my eyes to see where there might be a corresponding instrument in any European or non-Western country. I didn't find anything. However, I found, for example, on German public television that for 50 years the Programme Advisory Committee, which has a decisive role to play: from televised viewers to complain, to how to cover the news. I suggest you see it. I would also like to ask three very specific questions in relation to the new ERT. I put some of these to the committee, Mr Pappa. I didn't hear an answer. So here's the chance to bring it back. First, the COPERT Solidarity Fund. It was a fund to which we all contributed - with our contributions - some amount for the difficult times to come. We want, please, to know what happened to this fund, how much money it had on the day the ERT was closed, that is, a detailed report. Secondly, you may not know, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a little more specific - but we on television are watching them - that a NERIT contest, which was under way for the purchase of digital transmitters and transponders, was suddenly interrupted. Why? As one of the members of the three-member competition committee complained that the dossiers were changed. Someone changed them. And if the competition is not completed soon - with conditions of transparency, but we are not discussing it - the new ERT, Minister, apart from the other weights, will also have to pay 100,000 per month for substantiating digital frequencies. So we are getting the new ERT to face ghosts of the past. And please tell us how you'll get them out of the locker. Thirdly, which was raised by the SYRIZA rapporteur: what about the irresponsible liquidators? The liquidators of the old ERT and of the special management of public television, ladies and gentlemen, enjoy absolute protection, which is equal to and assimilated only to the protection enjoyed by the President of the Republic. In other words, we have more than one President of the Republic, at least as far as the impunity is concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u121	Finish soon, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u122	As much as I can, of course. That is what I wanted to say, Minister, in relation to the government's association with the new ERT. That doesn't please us at all. As far as your vision is concerned, I was hoping that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Amyra, you've been talking for ten minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u124	It's okay, Madam President, it's my first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u125	No, "it's all right", Mr. Amyras. Excuse me. You can also ask for the floor on the articles tomorrow. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u126	I shall conclude, Madam President. I will be the first newly elected Member to whom you do not give any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u127	I'm saying you've been talking for ten minutes already. And I ask you to complete, because I see you're not in such a mood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u128	Sure. You removed 25% as a percentage for ERT's external awards and producers. And you did well to remove it, then our own proposal. However, I would say to you that you should have taken a percentage, as many televisions in the world do - French for example - for a necessarily Greek programme. This is very important, Minister. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And let me come to the crucial issue of the reinstatement of the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Amyra, excuse me. You have the right to speak tomorrow on the articles for eight whole minutes and with one tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u130	I know, Madam President. I'll be out in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u131	No, in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u132	In one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u133	Oh, no. Please finish in a minute and it's over. You're talking 11 minutes and twenty-nine seconds already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u134	In a minute. In relation to the reinstatement of workers: I am a contractor. I have a great deal of sensitivity on this issue. If you really wanted to be bold, you should do what you are doing or suggest or promise to the contractors of the next batch, i.e. molecules all ERT workers and open procedures for the proclamation of these two and three thousand jobs, so that all the unemployed will have access to this new ERT. You didn't. What do we want? We want the ERT of the grammar. I am presenting a report to you a few 24 hours ago: 'Public television in the Member States of the European Union. Research for the European Parliament". Mr Graziakis, the Party's MEP at Potami has not yet tabled it in Strasbourg. We put it here in the Greek Parliament first. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Also...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u135	No, Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u137	No, Mr. Amyras. You speak 11 minutes and thirty-five seconds. Please. Mrs. Canelley will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u138	I shall conclude, Madam President. With regard to licensing, Minister, the main thing is, as we have said, to restore the legal composition of the PSE. We're not talking about it. That's what we're stepping on for anything. For the good ladies and gentlemen, the nineteen-five radio stations and all the channels for television, local and pan-Hellenic have all been deemed to be operating illegally. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Therefore, if you wish, you can find the necessary majority of 4/5 in the Conference of Presidents. Because here - let us not hide - we have managed to elect Zoe Konstantopoulou for President of all kinds. Aren't we gonna be able to find five nomadic for the PSE?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u139	That's cheap!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Amyras, you have no more reason. Finish now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u141	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u142	No, please. You don't have the floor. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u143	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u144	You don't have the floor, Mr. Amyras! It's over! Thank you very much for your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u145	Mr Minister, take into account the proposals we have made to you, they have substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Amyras, please too!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u148	Be well. You spoke thirteen minutes and fifty-seven seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can you stop yelling? Mr. Diamantopoulou, please. Mr. Amyras, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u149	But I brought so much excitement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u150	Please. Please. You don't even respect the students who are here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u151	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u152	I repeat: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and schoolchildren and four educational sessions from the Karyotissa High School of Pellas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Lianna Kanelli has the floor and Mr Papachristopoulos will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, your maiden speech cannot be "exact" than the maiden speech of others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u154	Mrs. Canelley...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u155	Allow me. You invoked it four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u156	Maybe she's equal, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u157	You invoked it four times. Can you at least remain silent? Because we are going to have to explain the self-esteem of time to the students, of whom I, on behalf of the rest, now, before I start talking, I apologise for the image. I have forty-two years in the profession. At ERT I have also worked forty-two years ago, with different governments. I've also worked in the private sector. I'm out of all kinds of persecuted, fired. I haven't given up on anything. That doesn't give me the right - and I won't do it in here - to hang faces. I'll talk about the law. I will not invoke any personal experience or personal violations of democracy that I experienced from the whole political spectrum. I will only plead this: whenever I did a journalistic job, in public or in private, finding one - if any - of chrysanthemums, then I did not catch up with them in their great activity, have the requirement to be present - to tell me that I blocked it, even at the time when private channels did not apply to the incompatibility and I was a Member, from 2000 to 2004. This is to make it clear on 'personnel' and, above all, on 'crisis'. Colleague journalists who are in here, or telefactors, or programme presentationers, in whatever capacity, have been "built" in 99.9% of the "cassidy head" called ERT. "The chin's head"! They have worked with the same POPERT, in the same buildings, with the same interventions from the same offices. They're nervous, they're offended, many of them have worked "chicken," others are dead. And they weren't honored. And a lot of them on missions. The material that created the private channels comes, as a whole, from the ERT. The technicians, the journalists, everyone came out of ERT. That's how things started. If we go to the beginning of ERT, we will find SIEMENS and the donors' leader, who starts communication and radio in Greece. The first independent radio that started in Messolong did not have the luck of turning into a state. So you come here today with a bill that wants to hit "black" and wants to renew, to restore the "dead" ERT. Indeed, I have heard the Golden Dawn spokesman say 'the bill on ERT', 'the bill on NERIT'. It's not NERIT, it's ERT. That can't change. It's Greek Radio Television. And he can't change because of the image he's created outwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u158	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u159	I'll answer you another hour, Mr. Loverdo. If I open a dialogue now, you'll eat me out of my precious time and I don't want to play with it. Besides, most of what I'm saying, I have it - thankfully for me - published and I don't have to get it back. So if we come to the essence of things, what do you do? Are there passions? I'm tired! I do not allow almost any of you, without underestimating their intelligence, to make permanent comparisons with foreign channels and to have them devised. But where did you find this? It's perfect and great and fantastic. Where did you find it? MI6 is installed on the 7th floor of the BBC and controls national information. He did it before the war with Argentina, then he did it. Where'd you get those and they're amazing? It's RAI better than here! ERT had a special court with a single-camera. He attended the special court of '89, from which to the one-camera, just as we were pictured by two party leaders, one death and one uniform. Do you know what the result was in terms of production in terms of the substance of television production in Greece? Let me tell you, why did I live it? Private TV was on the way after 14:00 a.m. at noon. The concept of breakfast coffee, as you know it - where you gather in Maximos - was made from there the show of Roula Koromila, then as "Break of Breakfast". That's exactly what I'm telling you. And it turned into a problem, because there was a TV show and they had to get into commercials. And anyone who hadn't been assimilated then to talk about how the special court would be interrupted so that they could fit ads for revenue, he doesn't know what he's saying. So from now on, you have been producing television merchandise and you want to make that a state-run product. Note which word I use,'state'. Greek Radio Television. So far, how has it worked after the big changes? A stock - didn't it? - with privatization criteria. What are we forcing in here now? That you're going to make a Vatican? Vatican ethos, Vatican culture? If you want, you can. You can do the Vatican in there, really. On what conditions? I have heard my colleague say 'up to eating standards'. You girl, my colleague, will you ban high-fat commercials?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u160	Local products.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u161	You will have a show - I honestly say to you - that says, "to eat tasty and cheap pork." The junta did it. And he said, "Every village and stadium, every city and gym." And he had villages with five thousand swimming pools and a hundred fifty inhabitants. And what happened? He also put it in the trolleys, "hot and cheap Greek pork." What did we have? Democracy? Will you put out food broadcasts and then the commercials of the monopolistic European interests come in? The imported milk coming from good Danish TV and even better Dutch TV? What were you doing here? Here you made a mistake, which is tragic. Comrade Giokas told you in detail and I don't have to add. You have taken an act of legislation which you say has brought 'black' - indeed, I agree - created a democratic and substantial hole - and I agree - and now you have taken a lens and put a little light on it. In my village, they say: "It is enough that you don't fall out of shit in the ashtray." You're making about the same thing. The rights of workers have gone away anyway. The contraction of production is shattered. The board of directors will check it out. And believe me, you'll control it. In fact, you'll check it out. This concept of independent ERT is exactly the same as the independent authorities. The parliamentary majority of 4/5 is formed on the basis of this. The duration of these institutions is much longer than the parliamentary term and will often be against it. The social partners. What social actors? We've lived it to this day. The assets are shrinking. The activity is shrinking. The new management board - even if you look at it on the street, get out and say I want a very good manager to take over the finances, I want a very good intellectual over and above suspicion - depends on the direction that will be given for what kind of thing you want this TV to be, You know exactly what you don't want. I'll agree. "I don't want" is much easier, even at a wedding. But marriages are not hanged by a marriage contract - you know it very well - as politics from the memorandum and antimony position do not hang. It's a card, it's a contract. The whole policy doesn't change, no matter how many times you change that marriage contract. You couldn't and you didn't hear us. No one would say 'no' to you. Because, for example, putting incompatibility with the two trade unions who will be in the board, do you know what you are doing indirectly? You're throwing the trade unions all down for today. I'm telling you, why shouldn't the unionists be inside the board? Do they know them less well? I'm telling you there may have been union misconduct and mistakes and everything else. Are we going to dismantle the syndicate? Can't the trade unionist be a member of the board? You mean he doesn't represent anything wider? And you're left? Just himself? One of his own? Is it going to be over? It will be out of trade unions, outside politics, out of place, one by one, and so you will satisfy democracy! But, Mr. Grandpa, why is that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u162	Mrs. Canelle, a little while soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u163	I'll finish. You see, then, that you're going with a medium-sized solution in medium-sized conditions, with the most dangerous thing, which is private-law relationships for state television. Believe me, with private-law relationships, without a predetermined number, an organization chart, a thousand-two, you're in danger of operating it like the channel of the House. And the channel of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, does not have a regulation, does not have an organizational chart. It was decided one day at the meeting here, and everyone can do whatever they want, whenever they want, and what they want, while in fact the whole debate that took place here is to promote Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Canelle, please don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u165	I, in this Parliament, have not seen the work of Parliament. Don't fall into the trap. I will close with a phrase and it doesn't matter who said it. When they brought BBC experts too many years ago to build the ERT - and keep this in mind for any change you want to make, then the BBC was at its very high - you know what the state responsible was - and it wasn't exactly the plan - after listening to them? "To become ERT, BBC, the Greeks must become English." And if they were to be English, they wouldn't be talking about this today, but they would be betting on what they have and have no sex and how many hours the Queen's child will be born. Fortunately, we have neither the bet or the Queen's child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u166	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor, followed by Mr Gregorakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u167	Liana, look at your time. What you're blaming...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u168	I have as many as the others, with the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u169	So what you're blaming...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u170	I didn't refuse to get off the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Amyras, please very much. Mrs. Canelle, please, you too. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to remind you that twenty years ago, in my opinion, a very important book was written by the then director of 'LE MONDE DIPLOMATIQUE', Ignasio Ramonet, entitled 'Geography of chaos'. That was where Ramone highlighted the atrocious pan-dynamics of multimedia in politics at a global level, not even at a local level. A shocking book showing that there is no need for tanks nor portraits or anything to understand a people. As long as you get him brainwashed, the way you choose, the power of money and the concentration of this beastly almighty on very few people. This introduction is necessary, because I believe it is to a certain extent a matter of Greek reality. Recently, we here in the country, in the run-up to the election, felt the tanks of the directed information, when we saw the difference between SYRIZA and New Democracy from the ten points that were up to a half and a half, and when we wretched ones - I say so by humor for my party, because it is small - they gave us the favor of giving us the percentages from 1.5% to 2.5%. I say this because parliamentary democracy has, I believe, been tested in recent years, beyond the economic crisis, to a very large extent. We are now coming to the subject: the ERT. It was always the “long hand”, even without holding the pretexts of the respective rulers. Not even the pretext, i.e. in cold blood! It was the government's long hand on television. It was so big that bulimia was so unwittingly large that it hit the credibility of the channel. In my opinion, it is quite right that Mrs Canelley said that this has provided all private channels with staff, quite rightly he said, so it is a treasure abandoned.The bourgeoisie of the respective governments to control it completely - and when we say absolutely, without pretext - made this channel have a 1% viewing of 2%. I mean, it was practically useless now in the government, since no one saw it. The burden, therefore, fell on private channels, which have been struggling and continue to perish with food recipes, with stupid morning shows, with lunchtimes, the best, gossip, etc., which is the bread more than separating, the real separating of an entire people, a young person, who would expect anyone to be at the moment most of her in front, as it has done before. I do not condemn it, but I believe that to a large extent the brutal demolition has reached the point where it has arrived and brought about a crisis for our country to pass. I would therefore like to say this: it is a unique opportunity today, Minister, not to be afraid of anything. I believe that the new spirit and style... [[Noise]] I'll waste my time, because I want you to keep an eye on me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u173	Mrs. Canelle and Mr. Adonai, can you please sit down a lot? Let's respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u174	Or "Mr Georgiadis" or "Adoni" you will say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u175	It's a unique opportunity, I believe, Minister, not to be afraid of anything. The Greek citizen and the Greek society are waiting for you to have a new morality, which has been afflicted very much. The word openness, the word worthyness, the word honesty and the word morality can take the flesh and bones. I am speaking to you at the moment as a Greek citizen and not as a Member of the Independent Greeks. And I mean this: as far as the suffocating hug of television from any government is concerned - because as you know, no one is permanent, changes, in one or two years' time it may be another party or other parties, no one is eternal - I think it is a unique opportunity now to shield transparency, dignity, honesty and morality. I myself will be happy, as I see Mr. Georgiadis every day, to see him on the new television, to see Mr. Pangalos, to see people with whom I am abyssed, to watch them on the new TV, and I want you to shield this. There have been too many proposals from the political parties of the Civilian Opposition, or from other opposition parties. I do not want to go back to the past and remind myself "Look who's talking." But they have a right - they are elected MPs - to make proposals. I have written them myself, and I would like to say to you, Mr Pappa: dare now, really, because democracy in the country will be restored and parliamentary democracy will be restored. He's a treasure abandoned. He'll be all-powerful if he becomes objective. Do you want me to tell you something? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. ERT will always be powerful if it becomes objective. Private channels, those that forge this nonsense every morning, misinform, do and make, will come to second degree. He needs today, as ever, the Greek citizen has to raise his quality of life. It's a job that you can do, has great power ERT and it's a unique opportunity. I sincerely tell you, I would like there to have access to all parties, all minority groups, all Greek citizens, who have been on the margin for years, but also those who have already been and who have been annoyed. I don't want to go into details. I reserve until tomorrow to give you in writing my proposals, which have nothing to do with the complaint and the indignation of a Greek citizen, not a Member, who has been living in the iso-definition tanks on my plane for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u176	And we thank Mr Papachristopoulos for keeping his time. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u177	I'll try to keep him, but you won't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u178	Mr Gregorakos, you do not have the excuse that it will be your maiden speech, because you are an old parliamentarian. You have the floor and there will be a tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, Madam President, the government is consistent. Indeed, it brought a draft law, because its aim was to reconstitute the ERT. I find it very difficult - and the Minister will allow me, because he is a young man, to express a number of wishes - to understand that this first-time government brings back chewed food to society. Minister, you lose your chance. You're a young man, cosmopolitan, as I read from your curriculum. Is it possible for you to bring this bill, at this time, when Greece has so many good minds, so good, not only scientists, not technicians, not computers, so good minds, about international communication, about the media and all these children to leave it outside to rebuild the old ERT? Honestly, you surprised me negatively. I wanted the incision. I wanted your presence. I wanted your spirit. I wanted to see you be in front of what you wanted to do. I would like this government to establish a new public radio and television operator, leaving aside any recipe it has to do with the old ones. But it seems that this, Minister, is not in your intentions, because it does not seek this bill and the government is fully dependent on those practices that have been recommended for many years - and you all know that - an official state culture, regardless of the party that was ruling. You said it before. But I didn't hear your self-criticism. I like you. You've done well. But you've been at ERT for years and I wanted names. Who called you and told you to do that? They were born, but each of us does his resistance. For example, in the health field when someone went to do something, we went out when we wanted to do something different and said "no, you won't." I was expecting to hear your side, and you're changing. We knew. Didn't we know? We blame that. But all these names have names, as they have names, and those who left behind a positive sign for ERT, like Dimitris Horn, who was then in a difficult time. Do you have anything to say? Can anyone say anything about Romeo? Can anyone say anything about Stago and the names they left history with at the ERT? I'm not going back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u180	Peanut.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u181	Peponnes was before. It was another, it was RIS, it was ERIT etc. Anyway, Peponnes with his well-known story. She's been from Messolong, and we have to say about what happened in Messolong since 1920 -- what Mrs. Kanelli said. I am sorry to say, Minister, that the proposed draft law is a long way from society's needs. I repeat that if all that Mrs Kyritsis said happened, I cannot describe what status she was then. But do you think this bill ostracizes all the above side effects and all that Mrs. Kritsis said? If he does, we will vote for it, but he does not touch anything on what he has said. None of this is happening. In order to shield the functioning of the ERT, the independence of which the New Democracy has injured, while we have strongly reacted to it, we want you to guarantee that what you are doing will have transparency. We made mistakes. We can talk. But the people have now given you the mandate to rule. Behold, the field of glorious glory! We would expect you to have a planned plan, since you expected you to be government. We all knew you were the rising power and all the polls said you'd be government. So we would expect you to have a planned plan, or at least have you read the Mosilus plan, which Mosilus said? That this ERT, which I and the then government dreamed of, would be something different, innovative, modernistic, reformative. Read it! Imagine he'd make an international competition for ERT's board of directors. I remember you raising the tons, invoking the concept of self-management, the independence of ERT, but with the draft law that I have in my hands, none of that I see. We, ladies and gentlemen, have decided as a parliamentary group to stand up to any effort that is reformist and innovative. It is your chance to get rid of the state of mechanisms channelling its revenues into all kinds of interests and factors that face public life as a dean. Names, addresses, you know them. The objectives of a government with a fresh people's mandate are therefore specific. No dissolution of everything and decadent airplanes. You rule this place. You are commanded by this people to rule. Do something new, something good for us and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Gregoraco, thank you very much. Mrs Ioannette (Annetta) Kavadia followed by Mr Diamantopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, speaking from this point of view of the ERT, the ERT of my life, the ERT of my professional ranking, the ERT of my most productive journalism, is something that makes me thrilled. It is not a little thing to be called through another responsibility to give the kiss of life, to resurrect what we have been fighting for so long. You know, I am one of those who, on the day of shame, the day that the previous reversing government decided to drop the black and show in the clearest way how it perceives the concept of pluralism, the concept of pluralism, the concept of democracy itself, the day that the calendar showed 11 June 2013, once again in the twenty years that I worked for ERT my contract expired. Because, if you don't know, at the "early cow" as Antonis Samaras had described it, the vast majority of people were workers who received 800, 1,000 and 1,200 euros a month - people capable, honest, decent who just did their job. So these are the people you targeted, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK. These people, along with almost the entire Greek society, led to despair, sacrificing them on the altar of your policy. In the ERT case, you will allow me to say that a 'category' is a bit. I blame you, because in the name of submission to outside orders you did not hesitate to do something that has not happened anywhere, even to other kinds of regimes. I blame you, because even now, twenty-three months after the disgrace and the form that you have created is completely discredited in the consciousness of the viewers, you appear unrepentant. I blame you because in the name of the service of friends of interest you did not hesitate to write your old shoes even this constitution of the country. I blame you for not having had the courage to admit that it was finally a lot of money in the case of "DIGEA".And that with your backs the thickest strand was set up to consolidate the new media landscape, "DIGEA", one of the biggest scandals of the previous period. Patent Scandal. And honestly, where did it come from, is the program provider also the one doing the task in relation to the one giving and sharing the frequencies? They're the same. "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks." And a coincidence: The ‘black’ to the ERT fell on June 11, when on the 19th of the same month the consultation for the DIGEA competition expired, where the ERT as an expressor of the public interest was to submit its own comments and speak of a photographic competition in order to benefit a particular company. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, in order to say things by their name, they were fine, and with the closure of the ERT, and then with the crazed NERIT, your tireless companions, the most enthusiastic supporters of your policy. I am referring, of course, to the private media of mass monumentality, which even today are struggling with nails and teeth to prove that nothing has changed in this country. As if elections were not held, as if they were still the protagonists of the country's political life. That's why, from morning to night, we're witnessing a risk and disaster recital, with obvious targeting, of course. But we understand their behaviour. It is not a bit of a government which has been questioning their pan-state and which has been seeking to put an end to immunity, which has been governing their operation for so many years. It is not a bit of a matter for the Minister of Finance to include in the list of reforms a provision for EUR 3050 million of revenues from the licensing of channels and radios. It is not at all a small thing for the relevant Minister of State to ask the channels to pay their accumulated debts - for the last four years - to the State, which has reached the sum of EUR 40 million, which is also an immediate demand. It is not a bit of a matter of asking the Treasury to check all the contracts with which they have taken over over debts from the media - we are, of course, talking about hundreds of millions of loans - granted in terms - let us describe them for the economy of the debate and because we are noble - 'only to be debated'. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the last to say that the ERT of the past did not have any wrangling and waste and that there were no scandalous conventions, a caste of privileges and provocative wages, known pathogens that the workers themselves had denounced. But no ears were sweating. Do you know why? For the simple reason that the governmental nomenclara, which has been changing for years in power, wanted, not really a public one, but a state radio and television, in which the well-paid "local" of course assumed to support the umbilical cord between Agia Paraskevi and the Great Maximus. But all this ends here. Without revolts, we are building a strong and competitive public service broadcasting that will enhance the country's visibility abroad and extend the possibility for all citizens to participate in cultural goods. The draft law, as finally formulated after the views, the comments, the points made by all those involved in the final processing process, can form the basis of the collective effort needed to achieve the objective. And this objective is not only objective information and quality entertainment through a democratic grid of transparency and respect for workers' rights. I would like - and I close with this - to be clear: Mr Ministers, no law, even the most excellent one, can ensure that this objective is achieved unless there is the political will, so that the new ERT can be allowed to perform the role of land away from government and party interventions, with strong and effective social control and, above all, with confidence in the experience, skills, competence and professional competence of all workers. And contractors including, for whom there is special care in terms of their molecules. And, of course, having as a valuable asset in the new effort - which we are sure will be embraced by society - the bright example of the self-management model of ERT Open, ERT3 and the regional NRAs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u184	Mrs. Cavadia, thank you. Mr Diamandopoulos has the floor and the parliamentary representative of the Group of the European People's Party will follow Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to bring the light back to the dark, which fell that day of June and continued to fall heavy, because the form that continued to replace ERT was unable to do so at all in the consciences of Greek citizens. Minister, Mr. Pappa, I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u186	Why, Mr. Diamantopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u187	I am disappointed that you had to bring this into legislation, to see if those who had been covering for so many days could hypocritically sprinkle something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u188	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u189	Why, remember me, the act of legislation with which the 'black' fell has been passed by the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u191	I don't remember talking about that. If I remember correctly, we insisted very much and we didn't just SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are restored to a part of democracy. We have been attacked that we are constantly invoking the Civic Opposition and the PASOK party that they were undemocratic and after 25 January democracy came back. Yes, it was not completely destroyed, but what we are doing today brings it back, because that was then in this piece. Mr President-in-Office, at the moment there is an excellent opportunity. What was created at the time at the ERT, after the "black" that fell, has created a sowing which can prove particularly beneficial throughout the entire Greek society. There was this sample of self-management in one thing that had been denounced and was partly party and clientele and saw something else blossom. This responds to the objections today of the Minorities from New Democracy and the PASOK, who dared to be placed in this bill, not because they do not have the right, because first of all they should have a self-criticist dose when they were going up to this Step. They said: Reset the old ERT. However, the section of the "black" at that time created something quite different. We saw people who either were inclined and could not show it or realized this Armageddon, this neoliberal router, who leveled everything in his path and showed something else. All these months without parting, self-determination opened up the ERT. We must take seriously into account how we can take a step towards both the people and the citizens who were there and present and who helped in this process. Obviously they had neither a request nor a desire to hire them, but we need to see what ERT really is going to be open to society. Because after that "black" we saw the Skouria movement coming to the news, the movement that existed in Keratea, many and various movements that were buried before. This all has to be a guide to the new ERT. I think he will be a guide to an ERT, which will finally restore the information. Because in recent years, we have not been talking about information. We are talking about journalists - several of them are in introductorys, let me say - who are selling opinions and usually not theirs, but of the interests of private channels. I believe that it will be the basis and aided by Minister Spirtzi's efforts and by the auctioning of frequencies to move to another stage completely different. To me, it's no foreign channel, state or private, standard. We can here, in this country, create standards. I would have finished my speech here if I hadn't heard the report from the New Democracy. It was, in fact, very interesting to see the New Democracy drawn up directly with the arguments of the channels of interlocutory. So he fully defended that there was nothing the channels owed by the law - that SYRIZA had not brought - for 2%, because - he says - they give - listen, listen! - election time at parties. They would probably not read that this is an express obligation on the channels because they use public frequencies and they are not in any way offsetting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u192	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u193	You'd like to clear it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u194	You didn't hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u195	Please, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u196	No, you won't twist me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u197	Look. I understand that when they asked for a rapporteur for the New Democracy, you were trying to leave the Chamber and probably by lot it would fall on you. However, you have expressed it - it is not a personal attack - and you will hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u198	You're twisting what I said, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u199	Now you're talking to a man, when the New Democracy truth group created the handy monetar. You, New Democracy, are you talking about a distortion that you've taught her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u200	You're a pervert.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u201	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, when it is over, I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u203	I didn't mention anything personal. I referred to the New Democracy report. From that point on, you dare say that the government has no sensitivity, and after that 2% that they'll get, they'll close the channels and we'll have redundancies. Who are they talking to? Those who imposed thousands of redundancies in this area too with the austerity measures, with the Memorandum, which were the result of the destruction of the productive fabric, was that both the media and the way they were operating had come to a handful point as to the possibility of giving work. In my half-minute - I will truly give the rapporteur of the New Democracy a break - Minister, I would ask you to be aware of the parties which are abducing this government and you personally that you are actually doing favors and going to reinstate or put your own people back on the ground. You have to understand that they have been doing decades. Are they going to change now? They're judging the odds themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Diamantopoulos. Mrs Vulture, you have asked for the floor on staff. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u205	Madam President, I would like to say that my colleague, Mr Diamandopoulos, has tried to show up for the New Democracy and, above all, for me as her rapporteur, to be identified with the interests of the channels, which I wanted to defend. He did so by using the well - known propaganda tactic of secondment, using a part of my speech. But I didn't say that. I said that this is an issue that the government itself will resolve, and above all Mr Pappas, who, as a canalarch, will now be able to stand and discuss with the other canals. I said it was an obligation for the channels to transmit the parties' messages. However, it is not required for hours to transmit all press conferences of twenty-six formations. That means they're abolishing their program. That's what I said. The third is that, yes, I am defending the jobs of journalists, technicians and managers in these channels, and I have weighted this as a competent Minister, and I have taken this very seriously into account in the way I have moved. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u206	The Parliamentary Representative of the Parliamentary Group The River Mr Theocharis Theocharis Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Theochari, will you use all year round or just twelve minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u209	I'll use less. I will try to be as brief as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a confession. I would like to confess here before you, before the Greek people, that I admire Mr Pappa. Minister, I admire you. After the failure of the Messinian negotiating team, after the failure of the Cretan negotiating team - Drasakis, Varoufakis, Stathakis, Theocharakis, Juliarakis - you came to save us in the negotiation - and I really hope - you and your fellow banks, Mr. Thompsen, Mr. Kere, whom you thought some time ago were the "nothing" of the country. I hope, however, that you and Mr Tsakalotos and, of course, Mr Tsipras can bring this negotiation back to the tracks. However, while you do this most important work, you can also collect 2% of the channels and build the ERT. That's why I admire you. How do you do it? It's scary. Maybe because you're doing half. For the collection of channels, we welcome and agree. You did well to sign the ministerial decisions. But that's half. The other half is to pay the parties their "fessions" on the channels for the hours they show up on them. The parties, which owe right and left, have to pay for what they owe on the channels themselves. Otherwise, you're transferring debts to the private economy. That's not the purpose. Only then will you have completed what you said with the ministerial decisions. Are you making ERT? Yeah, you're making it. You may, however, make the ERT of Mr Marouda and Mr Laliotis. Both may have been jealous of you. "You're strangling" ERT, directly as Minister, you get all the responsibilities. In other words, the ERT is fully controlled by the Minister and there is no supervisory board or any indirect way of being controlled by the House or even by what we have proposed as a River, namely the Council of Independence and Quality Assurance. Do something, so there's a diffusion of control. All you didn't write to us is that if you don't like any broadcasts - as the President of the EAEC has ever done, who didn't like 'The Kamaki' - you should call and stop the show in the middle, do not show. In the board of directors, this was not dared at that time. Only two employees' representatives shall be involved in the Board of Directors at seven. Look at this. It is foreseen that no decision will be taken without the consent of the workers. Yes, to help both workers have reason to what ERT's character will be, but not two out of seven. Look at this: This is not an isolated incident. You've already shown how you're ruling. We have the same in sport, where only with ministerial decisions the Minister opens and closes, stops championships or anything. The same happens in justice. The Minister of Justice comes in and legislates and no longer need judges, no need for prosecutors, directly sentences are given by law. You ask for agreement. Of course! But you're saying more. You cannot, in principle, get in touch with the components and shoot yourself. Is there a hierarchy coming in? We haven't seen this in a few things we've lived through these months. First, a multi-dimensional foreign policy. Does our country need to have such a policy? Of course, I do. Instead, we have a lunar landscape. A crater is the Dryer, digs the Dry From there, breaks the bridges of understanding. Another crater is the export of jihadists. In other words, we are deciding that in this way we will blackmail our partners by exporting jihadists. Fruits and software we have to export. To keep our minds here and export agricultural products. No jihadists. And how do you try to close those craters with what bridges? With equipment of the Secretary-General. Mr Papa, does the government cover the Secretary-General, Mr Tafellis, who worked at the 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', to which we gave EUR 500 million? Can you please stand up and tell us if the government covers him for doing business to his former company? We only bring the easy ones over here! Secondly, 30 million were given to the "Greek Sugar Industry" as much as the "Greek Sugar Industry" as the "Greek Sugar" liquidator and there is no plan for this company to survive. Nothing! We are just flying 30 million, which will come to cover it. We're sure of that. You want to be hired to the ERT, but for the canalots. We can't hear you say anything, wait! You want to keep the channels in hostage. We expect ministerial decisions to come and do so. The bill, you've put the hiring first, not the canals. But it makes it easier for you canals to be in a hostage, so they can sneeze you every night at eight o'clock!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u210	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u211	They don't melt the channels. I'm glad you agree. They're mobbing you. You asked, Minister, who benefits from lawlessness on the channels. You benefit! Benefit because you like this. Is that right? That's how others did it. That's how they started with pimps they wouldn't tolerate. That's how others did it. You'll live them, we'll live them. At first, you like to be held hostage and to be savage and when in three months the numbers will not "go", then you will need them and you will not be able to put them with them. That's what's going on. That's right, a circle is that. What can we do? Then you'll need them. It's already happening, the numbers are falling apart. Watch them. One number I'll tell you from the polls: The anger about the government's manipulations from 2% has gone to 35%. From 2% to 35%! A new generation of indignants is being prepared. Look out! I will give a parentheses of this popularity, because you keep telling us - it is an ethnicism - that the people love you. In democracies, people do not love governments. This has been known since antiquity. In particular, the rheumatism and the philosophicality of democracy, the'settlement', obviously, because in direct democracy all citizens have to keep on working together, but also the 'philippi', because the rulers after their terms of office had the so-called'responsibility', they were told. In democracy, then, there is no love of the people. Love is Chavez, Gaddafi, King Yon Gun, Louis IV, who is God's mercy, and Evita Peron. They need the people's love. In democracies we vote with the brains, with the ears and eyes open and with the hearts closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u212	We don't count love in any polls.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u213	This is your main argument. That's what we hear all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u214	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u215	Second, you're negotiating in secret. In the junta we have not only had legislative acts, as Mr Voutsis has said. In the junta, as the older ones remember - I do not remember at the time - we had the 'Deutsche WELLE'. We're back in the era of the 'DEUTSCHE WELLE', aren't we? We are listening to 'FAZ', 'FINANCIAL TIMES', 'REUTERS', 'BLOMBERG', 'NEW YORK TIMES', and let us know what is happening, to understand what is happening with the negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u216	NERITT says everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u217	The day before we find out that Mr Varoufakis will be put aside and the next day, today, he is confirmed. In a day! They know that earlier. That's how it's done, then we're notified, first the strangers know it. Finally, our leader, Mr Theodorakis, asked the Prime Minister to take an initiative to convene the Council of Political Heads. You don't want to say in public what you're doing in the negotiation? Good, no problem! Call the political leaders, let them know! We are not asking for anything, just democracy to work in practice! I shall end with a few words on the substance of the negotiation, because it also matters. Forget elections and referendums! Forget it! Greece voted for you when you brought hope. Now that they're afraid of you more than the Memorandum, now will you come back to the people? Now you're going to turn to the people? You don't know what's waiting for you. Look out! You still have the support of the Greek people. Use it and make the best decisions. Otherwise, behold Rhodes, behold and fuck! Come and see it to the people, we're not afraid of it. You have experienced the concept of the Left in Europe. You've already sprung her. I am not sure if Mr Iglesias will call Mr Tsipras to Spain, now that he has first come to a third. All you have to do is split her into Greece. We do not like Britain, the United States, France, Italy, Germany and Spain as friends and prefer Ecuador. That's what we prefer, Ecuador, who begs and doesn't give him any money and is forced and sold out his oil in China, even if he gets money. That's our model. That's the ones we want to hang out with. Serve yourselves in a few words! Pick the red lines of the weak, not the coarse ones. The unemployed don't pay VAT. Protect the 60th who pays the 50th! Create an environment for jobs, if you want not to cut pensions! Make an environment! And don't you dare ruin the mature privatisations, by paying compensation, because these allowances will be paid by the incursion of the Greek people! You're stalling. That's what we see. You're stalling. You're destroying the economy. You disagree with yourself. You don't promote changes. You don't have a plan, but even if you had it, you don't know how to execute it. Within three months you managed to make almost nothing different from the previous government. Be careful because soon you may have the same ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u219	Personally, I tried to keep low tons during the debate of this bill in committee. I fear that this has not been appreciated. I would therefore like to see the status of canalarchs withdrawing them. In addition to the "graved" which is heard that we canalarchs, Mr. Theocharis, are savouring us, and I will tell you that the meeting is being broadcast and the channels will play at night too. Is that right? People are watching us. Here we have to measure our words thoroughly. I just want to say two things: As regards the Supervisory Board and the BBC. How is the BBC Supervisory Board appointed? He appoints the monarch - that I don't know if you like it, maybe some people in here like - and he consults, says, the ministers. And we are now invoking this model. In all European countries, obviously, the IGC is nominated by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u220	The Supervisory Board. In other words, the supervisory, the administrative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u221	Yes, of course, you had supervisory, Mrs. Vultisis. But if you'll excuse me, why are you causing me now? You abolished it the day your government fell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u222	We didn't abolish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u223	Hey, how did you not remove it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u224	They all quit because they were in trouble. You don't remember them well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u225	Because of interventions, Mrs. Swollen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u226	I'll see you here. They all knew them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u227	Two more remarks. We have heard a lot about the 2% issue of television stations owed and they have to do so. We've heard, and we haven't heard, because there are still some people who are still silent. That he owes the public on the channels, we never heard of it. We heard that today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u228	Not the public. The parties themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u229	That he owes the public to the channels, because the channels show the pre-election activity of the parties, we haven't heard of it. We had not heard it from political forces and I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u230	But there was an invoice. Did we get it? Ignorant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u231	Secondly, there is a question of confusion and disorientation from the standpoint of counter-population. We're either Mercedes or we've got Ecuador left. Both may not apply at the same time. Finally, those who dream of new indignant, tell them that demonstrations by supporters of the memorandum will take a long time to see and will never see them being as much as the demonstrations that have changed and upset the political scene in Greece and placed them in the position that our people have given them since the previous elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u232	Mr Voutsis, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, has the floor. Mr. Voutsi, you're entitled to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, it really is an opportunity to have a much more general debate, because, as far as the frequencies and analogue spectrum are concerned - for twenty-three years - and the digital spectrum, all this case that ended with the shame of the closure of the ERT, and not only could have the inscription: 'My history, my sin'. The incidents are too much and cannot be forgotten in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u234	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u235	Mr. Georgiades, if possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u236	I was addressing the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u237	Now you're thinking about 20:00 an hour?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u238	Don't tell me that, because I'm going to call on a personal matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u239	Listen a little bit to the point. Politics has too much responsibility for how this whole process has been done. It is clear that the ERT was closed to give bonuses to the channels themselves ahead of the digital age. I suggest to everyone - and particularly to younger colleagues - that you look at the minutes of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Three long debates took place with the two administrations of the EMCDDA. They are now, in November-December. They were with the previous one that made the law, where they gave DIGEA the green light to be the only provider and the administration of DIGEA itself. These discussions are very useful and beneficial. Let me tell you that there are too many issues on which a section should be made. Firstly, will the debate on the owners' incompatibility be resumed or not? The Greek democracy, after the great conflict that took place with the incompatibilities and the main shareholder, what is the conclusion? What are we now concluding in crisis situations, which we have lived through for five years? We have to discuss this, but it's an open matter. It can't be covered under the table. Secondly, in relation to the trust of the great owners of canals who have set up DIGEA, we have said here a hundred times - and we have told the gentlemen themselves when they came and discussed with them - that it is a classic incompatibilities. This is an incredible scandal. I would ask the authoritative lawyers, prescribers or criminals or others, who come out and forget their knowledge on all matters, to refer to it. Is it possible for the digital frequency provider to consist of the five programme providers taking the command, jurisdiction and spectrum from themselves? We told you one, two, three, four, five years ago. Make sure you don't understand. Is this a civil-system patent? In any case, Mr Theochra, which you have already raised a number of big questions, do you understand that? Because you've been present in public space all these years. You weren't locked up in the Treasury. It's what gives rise to scandals, everything, etc. There may be no confusion, no scandal. It doesn't matter. It's in itself the epitome of the incompatibilities. The next issue has to do with the National Broadcasting Council. You have known very well for years when the extensions of the terms have been made, what instruments have been given to the PSE. How does the political class even come in decisions that were made, for example, in the case of competitions, technical toys, bank cards and others, in strange hours or when they were looking for a word between millions of others and getting rich? They made decisions and came the political class, two months before the European elections, and were canceling and giving bonuses - because they are on very large channels - the continuation of these games. How shielded was this PSE? How accountable it was to the real situation, the political order of the country, the conflicts then, etc.Huh? Let me tell you the other thing, which you also know. Every time on 31 December, did an amendment come here? Do you remember her? Every time on 31 December for three years. It was the only memorial measure, the famous percentage they had to give, which they took back. The House itself has done all this and much more. To conclude, ERT does not only matter, through an extreme objectivity that it must have, to formulate the field of information - and not only - of dialogue and from there and beyond cultural and entertainment etc. If this project goes well and really in the consciousness of the world the new ERT is claimed, it will be possible to function as a pilot for the rest of the spectrum, the rest of the channels. This is very important. All over Europe there is always a pillar of public broadcasting, which in fact operates as an indication. He's putting an agenda. He's putting things on. They can't hide things. They can't die themes. In this sense, I really believe that all of us - with our reservations, with our objections, with the knowledge of the past in relation to the problems that exist - should support this body which has been in contact with the Ombudsman and the islands. I was in Kastoria, Easter, and they came and told us from both the islands and above that they don't get there, that the frequencies are closed, that there are gray bands in the frequencies and that they don't reach the digital signal. And they see from next door around, from around, from the other countries. I do not now address national and nationalist issues, but at least in terms of culture, level and language to see what is happening. The last thing I want to say, Madam President, to avoid delaying you - and I will be very hard on this to everyone, because I know, as some in here know - is that I do not mess with Mr Psyghi, nor with Mr Bobola, nor with Mr Vardinoyannis, nor with the ownership of AlPHA, that the policy has become a hostage and therapy of the big-fashioned and large-scale channels throughout the decade and especially in the crisis. I don't mess with them because these people are businessmen and they make their numbers, etc. We have put them in relation to their own interests in the policies of the crisis. It's another conversation. But this is the responsibility. Fifteen years ago, when I was the press officer of the then coalition, I was shocked. And I repeat what I know. And it's all about us. No one will deny it. When I went back to the channels years ago - we were in a different form of left - I saw the politicians and then the ministers and the great men catching the cheeks - and not only - and talking to them from the last one who made us makeup until we were in, like people who were forced, they had asked for favors, they had been asked to get them out of here every day, in the morning, noon, night, with a comfort and who were in a relationship of cooperation, not to say of subjectivity. The years have passed. I'm telling you that was 15 years ago. And now the fact that there is this immunity and problems, that there is this attitude to politics and depreciation of politics, that it is easy to say "all politicians are the same" and they say "see the House and you understand", "hear this and you do", the fact that they change the agenda, the fact that the numbers are beaten among them, is that this political class, this political system, and especially the sovereign political forces of previous years have not provided samples and have given no values and respect as individuals and as parties to private channels. Equally, wealthy and under legislative repetitive arrangements, to which I referred earlier, but others that I implied, looked and acted like therapists in this system. We have to get out of this situation, we have to cut in. No politician can ever call again to say "you have to take me out long" or "you didn't get me back then" or "take me this week before the election" or "I want this opponent" or "I bring you a topic" or "I'm about to get ready for the 20.00 issue, because I'm going to do a "geergelo" for Mr. Friend or Mr. Kyriazides". These are everyday lifes, and they know them perfectly. Talk to one through the channels how they talk about us. I also wanted to say this right from here, because I believe that it is for everyone and all parties, and it is for both the present and the future of the broadcasting space and landscape in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have a little problem to solve. Mr. Pappa, if you'd like to, sit down, please, wait a minute. Five parliamentary representatives have so far spoken. Mr. Georgiadis, I had a consultation. Can Mr Pappas be ahead of us and follow the parliamentary order or follow the order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u241	We will either go in the order of parliamentary order or do what we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u242	Good. We'll follow the show then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u243	Madam President, we have a problem, because there is a committee to which I cannot go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u244	After Mr. Pappa, it's you, in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u245	All right, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u246	According to the order, then is Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Koutsoukos and Mr. Philis. Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, various persons have been honoured and a minute's silence has been kept on various issues, many times issues that are not related to the Greek reality and for the sake of political purposes. For us today, it is a matter of our fundamental and obligation, our Greek nationalists, to honor a truly great man of the Greek race and of the Orthodox faith. Today, in 1864, General Ioannis Makrigiannis passed to eternity. One hundred and fifty - one years after his death, the General’s words and quotes remain current. Macriyannis said: "When they tease my country, my religion, I will speak, act and what they want to do to me." The life stop of Greek nationalists, the political struggle of today, that is, the struggle of MPs and members of the Golden Dawn, is completely in line with the spirit and words of General Macrygiannis. Let this be the best memorial to General MacGyannis. This reference to the hunted Makrigianni by its natural and spiritual offspring, that is, from us who have been persecuted, muddling, merciless, immoral and dishonest warfare by our political opponents and by the foreign factor for the reason that we are serving only our homeland and the truth and no foreign or domestic interests, let it be the best memorial. In closing this little report, I wonder: Then, in the 19th century at least there was a Makrigiannis. Now? Now, what's going on? Now is there a Makriyannis who serves the truth? Is there a national policy or are we all witnessing, like the Greek people, a sketchy one - not to say mockery - a monumental policy, where mail continues, simply changing faces and managers? From ‘mail Hardouvelis’ to ‘mail Varoufakis’. By ‘jawohl, Frau’, by ‘yes mum’. Unfortunately for the place, after the Prime Minister canceled all of his election announcements, he is preparing for the new great Memorandum of Understanding that will perpetuate the foreign occupation of the country by international loan sharks. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately Greece continues to remain a occupied country. Now to the contents of the draft law we are debating, I have noted in the report by the honourable rapporteur of the government's party the expression 'deep wound to democracy', referring to the closure of the ERT. I wonder: Is ERT really the central issue and the only consequence of the memorial disaster of the previous Memorandum of Understanding of the New Democracy and PASOK? Will SYRIZA heal the wounds of the Memorandum, which, according to him, are ERTs and cleaners, but, in turn, continue the same policy of subjecting to German Europe? So, is ERT just the deep wound? The dead of the memorandum or even better the fallen of this xenophobic economic war are not the deepest trauma? Isn't that the big wound? The extinction of the Greek, who feels foreign in his own homeland, doesn't hurt Greek democracy? Do they not also hurt Greek democracy, the constitution and the orderly functioning of society, the uncovered political persecutions against the country's third political power? I would like to say something about the new Republic's rapporteur, who used the words 'douches', saying 'we are not the dunks of lenders' or 'we are not the fifth pole'. Does New Democracy have the nerves - the chiefs of political opportunism, the party that has been in charge for decades without any humiliation, without any legalisation, without any shame, ideas, opinions and people from the extreme right to the extreme left, thus saying that it is a big party - to speak of a fifth pole? Who are they talking to? Are the speakers of the memorandum and Merkel's pilgrims speaking? It has also been mentioned by Mrs SYRIZA's own colleague last week that the New Democracy is the genuine expression of the interests of the loan sharks and the Memorandum. Due to these designations, he was convicted against the SYRIZA, saying that this is how he attempts to incriminate entire parties. Listen, listen! Who's talking? The expressions of the criminalization of political life and political speech are spoken, the makers of the gang of Antonis and Babi. He also continued by saying that we will not tolerate this anymore. So does the government not have a new agreement, which, unfortunately, will bring? We won't tolerate it, he said. What does he mean? So what's he gonna do? Will he close more prisons? Is New Democracy and their trespassing rings going to be closed? He also mentioned this and my Member and myself for eighteen months, the competitor, Mr. Lagos, for the sake of the preparations! Absolute silence on behalf of Mrs. Vultusis! The only passion I saw in her speech was the view that the government should not be able to proclaim elections. Why is this passion on the part of the New Democracy? Does the New Democracy know that any possible election campaign will shrink it and eliminate it from the political map? Subject, of course, to succeed in reaching this possible political race. To conclude, in order not to spend my time in the collapsed political power, this ex-great faction, to say that even at this hour, at the time and at the moment of defeat and great collapse, irrationality prevails in this party. No modesty, no sign of self-criticism. The rapporteur pointed out that the world should be. So, on a coup d'état of New Democracy and PASOK, did he do anything different? The same misery as the then government, the same misery and the current government are experienced by the Greek people. With regard to the issue of elections or the referendum, which is shaken by various means and centres, we Golden Dawn, are ready for elections and for a referendum and for what the government wants to do in order to serve the Greek people its memorial cubicity, declaring its responsibilities and betraying the clear mandate it received on 25 January. We are ready with the means we have, without state subsidies, without meatcakes, without black bags with euros, with our only weapon the support of our tested people. I am talking about support - you know - from Greeks who belong to different political sites than ours. And that's the most important thing. This is the most important finding in the various polls. For us, ladies and gentlemen, the great referendum took place on 25 January, when the Greek people gave a clear order to abolish the memorandum. Instead, we are seeing a clear subordination of the supposed left-wing government to European lenders, to Europe, to German Europe. There is now a clear prospect of signing a new burdensome memorandum which will betray the people's mandate and further plunge our people into misery and dependence. In all this, the government brings this bill to reconstitute the public service broadcaster, as if that were the main political problems! Are ERT workers only the workers affected by the memorandum? So we symbolically reinstate the thousand five hundred ERT employees for communication purposes and forget about one and a half million unemployed? I say this, of course, without mean that we are against the healing of the wounds of the Memorandum Liberation of the last five years. But it's very important, a thousand five hundred for a million and a half! We in the Golden Dawn are therefore not in favour of fragmentary restoration. We want a national policy, a national strategy, and we want governments that can say the great 'no' that can serve national interests and stand side by the people's layers and middle class, which is the backbone of the social fabric. That is our political reason, that is our political objective. To conclude, Madam President, I should like to make a further point of the bill on the independence which you have said - and you have made it clear - of the way in which it operates. I read in introductory terms: 'The supervisory minister maintains organisational and audit powers, without prejudice to the powers of the Independent Authority', i.e. the National Broadcasting Council -'subject to parliamentary scrutiny in any case. Seven members shall be appointed for the management of the Agency. Of these, the President, the CEO and three more members - three more members, i.e. five in total - are appointed by a decision of the Minister of State, who are responsible for public service broadcasting, since of course they are approved by the Committee on Institutions and the Transparency of Parliament. The remaining two members shall be elected by the workers.’; So what independence are you talking about? The half the board of directors is controlled by the respective government and the rest is the prerogative of workers, trade unions and whatever their interests. As our rapporteur, Mr Lagos, has said, for this bill, we say'residents' while maintaining our reservations about both the intentions and the effectiveness of the ruling party. As far as the individual articles are concerned, we will be in our plenary session tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIRERIOS VENIZELOS, seventeen teachers from foreign countries. The Greek Parliament welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Pafilis has the floor and Mr Georgiadis follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u249	We hope that you will bring in a bill in future to have a more general debate, because here we are talking only about ERT. So I would not like to respond to what Mr Voutsis said and to the thoughts he has put forward here, but I will say a few things further. Anyone who thinks that within this system, with the domination of the capital of monopolistic groups, within this European Union, will be able to obtain objective information - now the 'objective' wants a great deal of discussion - and that he will also put rules in this area - the Minister, at the very point, has fallen - to monopolistic figures, rather than saying anything heavier, that is to say, that he is making illusions in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u250	Whatever we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u251	Deal, everyone can do what they can. Now I would like to say two things about the more general developments. What we are experiencing, apart from the history of negotiation, is the recent and the nearest agreement is becoming more intense, is that there is a psychological preparation, both intentional and on the part of the government, but also on the part of the other parties, of counter-population, that is to say, that we also have cartoon shots - to use war conditions - to prepare the people psychologically to accept a new agreement, which will be at the expense of him. There is also an attempt to blackmail both from the Government and from the Opposition, from another point of view, and from the press about the Opposition, through various blackmails, to enslave the people's demands, to accept that it does not go any worse, to accept as a victory the fact that it does not go any worse. This, in our view, is tragic. In today's day, that is, the dilemma you put to the people - others worse, others in a different way - is that it must learn to live in poverty, in misery, that the situation cannot change, that the correlations are them and everything else. You are therefore invited, for example, to accept whether the feedingstuffs will be increased for the children's stations - after taking the available funds from the municipalities - or whether the old people's pensions will be paid. Such dilemmas you put on. How about you, indeed, and how do you feel, really? Didn't you say Europe was changing? Wasn't that the main electoral slogan? 'The hope is coming, Europe is changing'. What do you say to the world now? We said that Europe is changing to the worst, that it is tough, that it is a dictatorship of capital and remains. That's the kind of terms we used. The Greek people get the taste. What can you tell him today? That you will succeed with this Europe to change its life for the better and that great concessions will be made within the European Union and with the negotiations with all those who you called with whatever name you want? Here's the results. Even those crumbs they promised to say - I'll say goodwill - and they can't do it. On the contrary. You are being asked for new measures and, it seems, according to the statements made by Mr Drasakis and from what Mr Varoufakis has heard, new measures will be taken or some of them may be postponed for later. The debate on whether elections will be held, referendum, etc. has also been opened. Whatever the rest, we want to say the following. The aim is for the people to be co-responsible in this dramatic situation. That is the objective, he serves both scripts, that is to put his knife in his throat by extortion, so then they say that the people agree, he agrees to go to the slaughterhouse because there is no other way. We say that there is another way, that the movement must be rebuilt and the other road does not pass through the European Union, through this system. We will not get tired of saying this every time, even though the Minister of State criticizes me that we say it and that nothing is done. We say that whatever distracts, and if he distracts, he will do so with a very hard struggle. Today capitalism and the European Union itself is not in the process of giving, he does not want and he cannot give. You all know that, but you don't want to tell him the truth. You show him that you can make a better management of the system. Finally, because of the fact that the break has been posed, of course, we are by the break and overthrow. But we, the people, the people's movement, will leave the European Union, take the means of production in their hands, build another society, delete the debt. Not a break that will take place with others, and it will lead to the same and worse fate. With this break, we are ready and that's what we tell the world. Such a rupture must make a change in total, but unfortunately it has not been convinced so far. I would also like to refer to the bill. Our rapporteur, Yannis Giokas, spoke in detail. So, with this bill, which you bring with it the legislative act and the joint ministerial decision, do you, in principle, abolish what New Democracy and PASOK have done? As a whole, not in our opinion, so you are not abolishing it. Do you reinstate ERT in the previous situation? Let us make it clear - although clear to everyone, I believe - that we do not defend what was happening at the ERT, that is, the privileges and how ERT operated. Only if there was intervention from the People's Movement. That's why we're saying on public TV, after a lot of pressure, there could be better information. We weren't defending them. We all got them first. In the end, they took me out of mugo. They did not pass on my statements, they were cut off by the fence, because we learned to do them in ten seconds because it was not much time. That's how far they got. What monsters were showing, what interventions were made! That's what we've all been through. We are not defending these, nor are we defending the unbelievable wages of journalists. I do not want to say now - and I am one of those who have been going for many years - how they acted and what they did and what they did and what they cut him off, cut him off, and a lot of other things that we heard from the fencer. We do not defend all of this. We defend what was in place as a whole, as workers, as structures which do not come back. There are too many margins, activities that ERT had, stations that existed. It is now at the discretion of the new management board to determine them. Competitive public television: What does that mean for competitive public television? We were talking about quality programs, etc. Of course, there is a need for a qualitative programme, but competition within capitalism and this system is another thing. There are other things about what you're going to show, how you get more ads and a number of other topics. A second issue is control. Five out of seven from the government. Two employees. Yes, sir. We need an explanation, Mr. Pappa. Why not trade unionists? Why? What's that? New one? Are you inaugurating anything else new? Why not trade unionists if they're elected? They won't be elected by the workers, as you say? Why? Will you forbid trade unions from running and electing them on the board of directors? Why? What's the point? Are we going to criminalize here? I don't want to say names. You know our relationship with some trade unionists in the past few years, who supported what was anti-grassroots, what was not at some point founded on what they supported and not on grounds of goodwill or because they were convinced. So why is that? What's the point? It'll be a governmental body. Don't deceive us that it won't be a government body. I want to say a few more words. Here I hear you and I'm really surprised. You're talking about European television. 'We want a European television.' Do you know what European state channels are? The "pads" of capitalism. The worst, the most reactionary, is shown by a thousand different parts and not only on the news. Emissions, everything. Isn't that right? It's not like that. Yes, sir. Watch them then, see what they show. Are we now talking about an objective BBC TV? Are we serious? Secret services approve all the news. How is it now going to come out of the largest state channels 'conservative' all the news in the European Union? We've lived through this. I have lived with them when I was out in the European Parliament for five years. One time, wouldn't a channel call a communist to say a few things or another? They're like that. And that's not all, calling someone to be a'sycholic leaf'. It's what they show, what they're propagandaing as a whole from culture. If there is now any exception, it is to confirm the rule, to have it indicated, that 'we did that as well'. Is that what we want to do, to project these values or values of ours, the Left, as you say in general? Call it if that's it. Why don't you say it? What are you afraid of? Does the Golden Dawn criticize you? This is where I see it is. However, fascism and racism are banned in good time and there are no exceptions to that, unless you mean that the elected fascism and racism are also allowed to be forbidden. Second theme: Memorandum laws. What will you hire the workers? Will you abolish the Memorandum? Here's the chance to start "losing" the Memorandum from ERT, since this bill is coming. Are you doing this? Oh, no. Multi-speed workers. Haven't we been denounced for so many years that working relationships are broken down, that eight hours are stopped, stable work, that they are captive, hostage workers? Isn't that what we were talking about? And you come here with multi-speed workers with blocks, bimenis, undetermined time and not constant. Other theme: Partnership with private individuals. You had 25%. You took it off. You know very well and those who have dealt much better that ERT is a huge power. He could do terrible productions. But now how did previous governments make use of it, which can't even make self-criticism now. It has huge potential and it has huge potential. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is not really the position in what we have set ourselves, because the positions are becoming personal. One's leaving retirement, no one else enters his place. That's why you have to do something if you want the staff to be kept and not to be reduced because of pensions etc. We tabled a detailed amendment - and I am ending here - which also covers these positions that we are saying, but which also has many similarities to what you had in the proposal for a law when you were opposition. Now what do we live again? Just the same, other in opposition, but in government. Why don't you take our seats? What are the reasons? We need a reason. I am not saying that, anyway, everything is undone, but say that you are making a statement and that is why we are not accepting it. Give some arguments, so that both the workers and the whole world know what your own policy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, Mr. Voutsi, before I lifted my hand to ask for the floor. I say this because whenever I happen to be moving in the Chamber or breathing, mention the eight cards. I live for other reasons, without the eight cards. I wanted to make it clear. But since you have opened the debate, and indeed with great intensity, you and Mr Pappas, take care of our words, because the meeting is being broadcast, and I dared to say that you have a privileged relationship with the media, I will bring a few simple examples. Can you imagine in Adonidos Georgiados or Mavroudi Voridis giving half the money to the hospitals? Can you imagine in some of your favorite morning shows what would happen, once they found out we gave half the money to hospitals, that is, 90 million euros budget, 45 million euros? Do you want me to remind you of the reports of the missing gauzes and alcohols in hospitals, or now they fill up the gauze and alcohol hospitals and I didn't know? Are you not telling me, Mr Pappa, that you have been caught by the patriotic and we have been hurt by the New Democracy, and indeed by an act of legislation to take up the reserves of the municipalities and regions and thus pass on to the duo, and even by invoking the patriotic duty? Now, are you kidding us? Evidently SYRIZA has had a privileged relationship for many years. Possibly not with the owners, but with the journalists. Same thing. Because most of us, as we know - do not mock now - come from the great left school. What is it? Are Greek journalists on the right as a priority? You're looking for a right-wing guy with a buffet! So we're gonna finish this. Obviously, you're "go" the means and "go" and very much. And so far for what you've done, you've been very relaxed. If the previous government had done it, they'd have pedestrians pedestriand, Mr. Pappa. So, let's get this over with. But I am going a little in your introductory speech, which has something interesting. First of all, you said about some dukes - the truth is, my voice looks like a duke, as a physical feature - that they said it would not pass through the troika. That's an interesting argument. When you get the troika's money, we'll talk about it again. You haven't even taken one euro for now. The Troika has no way of stopping the bill in this House and thankfully it does not. That's all he had. But what's wrong with him? He's got the money we're asking for, and he's setting the terms for us to get it. Because, as we all know now, you went to Russia for rubles - not to say what you took - you went to China, we fought with the Chinese because of Drachma - Drasakis and since China we have had no newer - that is, China - you even sent the Prime Minister's cousin to Iran to secret mission. So money from elsewhere, despite Mr. Kammenos's assurances, there are no. The only money you ask is from Europe and you still haven't taken a single euro, as Mr Chakalotos admits. So when the good Minister makes two thousand recruitments to the ERT at the same time and at the same time brings money from the troika, we will discuss it again. Because if you're just hiring, without getting money from the troika, you just hire people who can't pay them, just like you won't be able to pay everyone else. So a hole in the water. Why do you understand how acute and contradictory, ladies and gentlemen, it is a week ago that the Minister responsible tells us that he lacked 400 million euros to pay his wages and pensions to the public and, in order to do so, they took the reserves of the regions and municipalities by law and by patriotic duty, and at the same time Mr Papapas hired two thousand people? Fantastic idea!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u254	It's unfavourable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u255	I'll come to you. We'll explain it. The second part, the reward, said the honorary Minister, Mr. Papapas, is a little evil because the meeting is being broadcast: "But the reward fee is not increased. It shall be EUR three.’ Yes, sir. Aren't you telling me? Does the Minister have the opportunity by ministerial decision to increase it? Do you have that possibility? Or these thousands of five hundred - two thousand coming, won't they be paid? Sometime you'll need money. At some point, a Minister will come under this law and with the ministerial decision he will increase the reward fee. Because since you're increasing the workers, you're increasing the costs. And since you're increasing spending, you're going to need money sometime. It's just things. We will analyse them a few, and let us be honest. However, there's something else interesting about what Mr. Pappas said this morning that went through the change. I want to show it because it's really interesting. Search the Minutes. He's said it exactly the way I'm going to tell you, 'cause he's got a big impression on me. He says: "We are repeating the name ERT for both symbolism and substance reasons. Besides, after her abrupt closure, she received such an international resonance the name ERT, which is also a big asset." Then you have to say good to the Samara government. The government of Samaras, according to the Poppa, offered by the closure of a new big asset to the Greek state. Why are you exaggerating us? We didn't know it was that easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u256	And even bigger: the SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u257	If we knew it was as easy as you said, Mr Pappa, that we would close down some ten more agencies. We've only booked one of them badly. The state would also make money. So you understand that the arguments are a little lame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u258	And the New Democracy must be closed, but you can't close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u259	I am constantly challenged by Mr Triantafylides and I would forget about it, but as he speaks it, I remembered: It is very interesting what happened with the "black" of the ERT. The ERT 'black' also gave birth to political careers. Here we have many Members born from the black to the ERT. Especially Mr. Triantafylides has a very interesting one. I was a regular guest of Mr. Triantafylides' show at ERT 3. I guess you remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u260	Yes, yes, of course, I remember you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u261	Our memorial views at that time were largely identified.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u262	Memorial?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u263	I remember you've always been on a tie. That's a good impression to me. I have to say it. It was very nice that Alekos Triantafylides was always on a tie and a suit on ERT. After the closure of the ERT, you are now with a vest and without a tie. It seems the revolution is without a tie. That's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u264	You're on the right track.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u265	Don't play the tapes because we said the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u266	Madam President, I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u267	But all this has an interest. It's all interesting. What? Hypocrisy. What hypocrisy, Minister? Here the world is gone, and you boats are milking. Today, to understand, the Stock Exchange was up 4% -4.5% by the time I saw it. Do you know why? Because the Prime Minister announced for non paper that he changed Mr. Varoufakis and Mr. Tsakalotos and changed Mr. Theaharakis with Mr. Juliarakis. And so much so the market is trying to get caught by a fence of hope that, because the Prime Minister finally understood that with Varoufakis there is no agreement, the market is taking it as a terriblely positive news that Baroufakis will not now have the negotiation, since Tsakalotos will have it and Theaharakis will not have it, but Juliarakis will have it. To understand what the country is! From the replacement Theoharakis - Juliarakis, the Stock Exchange is up 4.5%! In this country, where is it in this situation, what bill did Mr. Pappas consider to be major? The ERT. Let's get along a little bit. We have heard the tears on the black. If the New Democracy as a government with PASOK had not re-established public television - let's assume that it was New Democracy in the logic of the Americans, United States -, if they said that there is no need for public broadcasting and closed ERT and no public television, you could have the argument that we are "violating, Mr. Georgiadis, to do so, because we are the European model and we want there to be public broadcasting". We don't even do that. I would like to congratulate you, Mr Chakaloto, for coming here on your upgrading to the negotiations. You gave good news to the Stock Exchange, and I hope you get a good deal, better on February 20th, according to the announcements you made to Papadakis the other day, which is correct, that you failed to get no money. Well, I'll be right back. We didn't do that. It'd be a peculiar review on the right hand, because we didn't do that. We did the other thing. We re-established public television which works. You just don't want to go. That's your bill. It's not good for you. Yes, sir. What is your bill doing - to get us to know - about public television? What kind of a revolution did you make, which could not wait until the end of the negotiation, but was it to be done at all now? Listen to what the changes are: Remove the supervisory board. Progressive change! Exquisitely progressive! In the old bill, you're changing the name of NERIT to ERT. Yes, sir! And you're reintroducing those who were made redundant. This is all the change you've made. I mean, the great innovation of Minister Pappa is the three things I've told you about. Indeed, after these three things I have told you, it is obvious that we will have an entirely independent, quality broadcasting of national scope! Now, are we kidding each other? Nothing's changed. NERIT, called ERT, just with another staff. That's what you did. And with less control, because you're removing the supervisory board, which you could object to if it was working properly or not. I would like to take a plagiar criticism: "Mr. Georgiadis, you have made a supervisory board, but he has taken political intervention." Yes, sir. That would mean that you would make such institutional mechanisms that would avoid such intervention. Not abolish it. You, however, have made the respective Minister of State of the ERT, to do what he wants. Awesome progressive change! Huge! Such progressiveity has never been seen before. You and Chaves! Well, let's go to the point. So, this bill is what? That's a lot of reason for nothing. That's it. That's a lot of reason for nothing. Fortunately - I congratulate you - you are abducting your election commitments, which is why Mr Kalfayannis is very unhappy. I also congratulate you on the very floor from Mrs Canelles: it is right that you are not involved with the administration. Exquisitely good choice. It's a little right, but if it's right, it's right. So Mrs. Canelley is right to blame you. I say it is a good choice not to involve union. Of course, Mr. Calfayannis had adopted him by election, huh? Now you renounced him or renounced you. And that's positive for you, I'm not saying it as negative. It's good. I now come to the closure of my speech. Mr. Voutsi, good are conspiracy conspiracies, they catch too much and they bring many votes, as long as they have the slightest connection with reality. I will give you an example and then I will close with DIGEA. A month ago, here in this House, we had a very big conflict over the law you brought - Mr. Friends especially supported him very much - for triangular transactions and the 26% advance. You remember that, Mr. Friend, I imagine. Vorides, I, Brutsis criticised your law and said that you'd put a lot of companies that shouldn't pay, pay. Oh, no! You were against interlocutory. You would hit interests like octopus. So what did you do? The Voridis objections - take Voridis speech, I dedicate them to you - have been made by Mrs Valavani. So what you didn't vote for by law in the House, you passed it through the back door with the circular. So, at the same time, you're hitting the intertwined and complex here and doing your jobs from behind. That's a great idea! That's a fantastic idea! Now we're going to DIGEA. Let's see 'DIGEA' a little. What's exactly the complication? Do you understand how capitalism works? You have an anonymous company called "DIGEA" and a number of anonymous companies called channels. ‘DIGEA’ is a provider of the trade mark, the channels are a provider of the programme. Where exactly is he interfering with each other's work? Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u268	Let me tell you something: The money to pass on digital television, which is a lot of millions, who do you think should put it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u269	Georgiadis is buying, Georgiadis drinks. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u270	The state? You think the state should go and put the money on digital TV?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u271	ERT had a privileged position, and with the closure it lost. Don't tell me now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u272	ERT is the state. Our basic ideological difference is that it is wrong for the state to have them, it is not good, it is damage. It's not about conspiracy. It's that if you build a state "DIGEA", sooner or later, it will accumulate infinite damage and there will be room for infinite ruffles. That's what we're telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u273	They had a competition with one, Mr. Georgiadis. You know that. They ruled out other providers. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Voridis will explain it to you, who was also a competent minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u275	Didn't you know that? Competition with one! You're doing what you don't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u276	I'm closing up, Mr. Pappa, on the subject of your admirable ministerial decision. To keep people up to date right. What's happened? There's a law that says 2% pays the channel. What happened in the past few years? 1% was offset by the election adverts, the ones decided by the intergroup committees. What are you guys doing? You say: 'No, pay the channels and what we owe them, go get them from the state, if possible'. That's what you're actually saying. Because you don't erase the debt, you just make a debt claim of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u277	There are ministerial decisions on these, Mr Georgiadis. Don't do what you don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u278	I told you. Listen, you're talking to me. Again, depending on 2%. By the '11s, ministerial decisions were made that made the famous set-off. What has not happened since 2011? Clearing. On the one hand there is a government debt and on the other hand there is a canal debt. What did you do? You said: 'No, the state to collect cash and the others to collect it whenever the state can pay them'. That's what you did, to be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u279	Finish, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u280	You have not won a euro for the state, you have made a liquidity facility, so to speak. If the channels, pressurized by this cash facility, fire personnel, that's obviously not what you care about. It's okay with Nikos Pappa, the left, that he'll obviously put the channels - which the state owes them money, but on the other hand he gets them - to lay off workers. That's where these workers don't hurt you. Only ERT workers have a soul. If they're private workers, let's stay on the road. That's what you're actually saying. If you want to earn money for the state, Mr. Pappa, you will also write off the debt of the state towards the channels. Since the state's debt to the channels remains intact - and of course remains under law and you cannot delete it - then all you, the great student of interlocutory, are to jeopardise the work of thousands of people in the private media. Listen, Mr Pappa: private channels workers also have a soul, not just ERT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u282	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u283	Wait a minute, Mr. Triantafylides, I saw you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u284	Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u285	Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor for a minute, and then Mr Triantafylides has a staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u286	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u287	As much as you are entitled, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u288	Madam President, as usual, we have called for the circle of parliamentary representatives to be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u289	I know, Mr. Philly. Before you, Mr. Koutsoukos and then you. That's how we agreed. Am I going to deny the floor to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u290	The ministers should at any time request it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u291	The Deputy Minister for International Economic Relations Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Madam President. Three things I will say about these cute things Mr Georgiadis said about the negotiation and the mistakes. When you negotiate, you make mistakes. When you don't negotiate, you don't make mistakes. When they give you six months of extension and you say 'no, two months to strangle the next government, namely strangle democracy', this is not a mistake, because you were from the same side. We, the second is that we learn from mistakes. And the Greek people know - and that's why they trust us - that we tell him the truth. And if you once told him the truth, and you wouldn't miss the election, maybe, and you wouldn't go so bad at the golf clubs now, because you never knew how to tell the truth. For us to know that the Greek people are sure that we will tell him the truth and when we go well, when we do not go well and when we have a good deal, when we do not have a good deal. Thirdly, because we are learning from our mistakes, we are constantly making improvements, to coordinate ourselves better, to have more effective intervention, because that is what the world demands, that is what time requires, that is what negotiation requires. It's three lessons you should've learned a long time ago, but that turns out day after day you're never going to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u293	But what did the Minister have to say and he took the floor? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u294	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u295	Wait a minute, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u296	I'm a parliamentary representative. Can't I talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Georgiadis, listen to me. I have already said that I will give the floor to the Minister, because it is before him and then to Mr Triantafylides on a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u298	What did the Minister say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u299	The Minister addressed me and the New Democracy by name. New Democracy has to answer, I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u300	You'll answer later on. Immediately after Mr Triantafylides, you will answer, Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u301	I need a minute. You can't do this in the House, you know that. Just a minute, I'll answer and that's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Georgiadis, no. I have told you that I will give the personal floor to Mr Triantafyllidis, and then I will give you the floor to answer both the Minister and Mr Triantafyllidis. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u303	Madam President, personal speech is self-evident. Although we are witnessing the last days of a personal attack, rustling, targeting and cancellation of certain people coming out and talking about frequencies, complexion, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Triantafylides, on the staff, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u305	As far as staff are concerned, I respond in particular. In terms of emissions, there are at the blog Alexandros Triantafylides, from 2009 to 2010 and at the "Lavrynthos" and "Lavrynthos". What makes me impression is that the amoralism and analgesia of these people who have destroyed three thousand lives, remains unchanged. The unrepentant lovers of black continue as if nothing were happening. In fact, he continues the same violin as the "discourt", Mr. Vorides, who said: "It is always interesting to listen to people with passion to expose their personal problems to Parliament." Yes, our personal problems in this House are the problems of the three thousand people who, with the sudden death, destroyed their lives overnight!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u306	What's the staff, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u307	We are passionate about these problems. You are passionate about defending 'ENERGA' and 'HELLAS POWER'. We're two different worlds: you and us from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u308	What's the staff, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u309	We defend the unemployed, the homeless, the needy, while you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Triantafylides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u311	... the 'ENERGA' and the 'HELLAS POWER'. Your salary is worth it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u313	I will not answer Mr Triantafylides. I prefer Mr. Triantafylides to the old man with the tie. Minister, listen. You are learning, as Mr. Chakalotos said, about the negotiation, but you are learning to the crass heads. Because when we told you that you could not sign an extension of the memorandum without taking money, you were telling us riskists. Second, he says, we didn't know. We were offered a six-month extension, and we only took two months to strangle democracy and the next government. Half of you weren't in the previous House. There was Mr. Tsipras telling Mr. Samaras, the then Prime Minister: "Don't you dare sign an extension one day. And no matter what you sign it, we will not recognize it." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And Mr. Tsakalotos has the nerve, when Mr. Tsipras asked us not to take a day's extension, now tell us why we didn't take six months? You guys are going to drive us crazy. As far as the third is concerned, listen, Minister. I, with my good heart, when you entered, wished you good luck and the news of your position in the position of Mr. Varoufakis, because he obviously went to the side, I believed you today's rise of the Stock Exchange. For reasons of civil courtesy, you should say: "Thank you, Mr Georgiadis, for your good words." Instead, you came to say a lot of words. But do you know what, Minister? We're full of words. While you negotiate, tourism is falling, businesses are closing, young unemployed are added, new dues are growing, the recession is growing and all about which you would fight a lot too much to avoid taking new material measures, gigantic ones. So leave the lots of words and do some work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u314	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u315	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u316	I'll give an answer and it'll be ten seconds. From this point of view, civil courtesy is more concerned than in practice!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u317	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Voridis, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u319	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u320	What personal? Your name didn't even sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u321	What do you say, Madam President? That's three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u322	Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos, PASOK Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u323	Madam President, I would like to speak. First of all, to judge whether there is a staff or not you must give me the floor and then reject it if you consider that there is no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Kutsuko, wait a minute. Here, Mr Voridis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Madam President. Explain the staff within ten seconds and then give me one minute to develop it. A clear reference was made, by Mr Triantafylides, and indeed by a contrast, which raised the question of integrity, because this side defends workers while I defend the abusers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u326	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u327	That's personal. If you give me the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u328	No, Mr. Voridis. I won't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u329	Do you consider that there is no staff here, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u330	I won't give you the floor. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u331	Madam President, may I? If your crisis is negative in this respect, I would ask my colleagues to judge whether there is any staff and whether I can talk about it. Let me put it to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u332	Mr Voridis, the Bureau is applying the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u333	I'd be done in a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u334	Here, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u335	Mr Triantafylides, let me clarify this. I, as a Member, have neither supported nor supported any legislation with which I would have any personal interest. You as a parliamentarian but also fellow ministers in the government do not go to court, but bring legislation for their personal interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u336	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u337	Do you wonder? Didn't you understand what the personal interest is? The fact that you do not defend here with passion, like other colleagues - and you should be three times as careful as your ERT colleagues, but you have a personal involvement. And there is a SYRIZA colleague, Minister for Government, who does not defend his orders in court - that is why there is no problem -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Voridis, is this a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u339	...but it also brings legislation on the basis of legislation and its remuneration. And you come to do moral and integrity lessons?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Kutsuko, you finally have the floor for twelve minutes. Allow me to make a small announcement. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can you just quiet down? There's a school. Well, at least respect that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-three students and students and four teachers from the Gymnasium and Lycemic Classes of Volimon Zakynthos and the 1st EPAL Patmos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, it would not be possible to pass on from our debate by the commission to which the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, has been put. Mr. Chakalotos, as he proved just now, has already worked. He came here to explain to us what the problems of negotiation are and how, in his view, the government will try to solve them. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a dead end. It was recorded yesterday at the Eurogroup. The government is communicating with Mrs Merkel - we were called 'partners', while we say that Mr Tsipras is doing well, and she is communicating with Mrs Merkel, if this is the country's interest - and she is obviously making the same mistake again. Instead of addressing the people and parties to set up a national negotiating team, that is to say to increase the negotiating power of the government, a negotiating team is being set up within the SYRIZA. Again, i.e. the first issue that the government is going to face is internal cohesion and not strengthening its negotiating capacity. In any case, we wish that her own deadlocks will not turn them into deadlocks in the country. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I would like to say that I saw Mr Tsakaloto who made a 'automatic' in a media, and said in particular that we had to close the agreement on 20 February in Eurogroup at a dose. We noted that at the time, the government still keeps the country in the memorial without a dose. They told us they didn't want the dose, and now they're begging for a receptor. Furthermore, I would like to remind Mr Tsakalotos that, when we were in the final phase of the negotiations and asked the colleagues of the SYRIZA opposition officer if they supported the red negotiating lines, which were very clear and specific - we said 'no wage reductions, not pension reductions, not VAT reductions on the islands' and so on - SYRIZA then told us 'elections and do not dare!'. And he took the power with lies in the election, which continued after-elections, and we are now at the peak of the deadlock. And, as I said, I hope that this deadlock doesn't turn it into a dead end, because time ends on May 11th. My second political remark is that the government's oath - I said this without being misunderstood next time, in the good sense - Mr Voutsis, who comments on everything, and not only Mr Butsis, but also none of the Government, any SYRIZA official felt the need to comment yesterday on what the government partner, the President of the ANELs and Minister for National Defence, on the free economic zone in the Aegean islands, on the break-up of Schengen and on the practical conversion of our country into a third world country. No one felt the need to comment. Against this vision of Europe, against a negotiation that the government is supposed to want to close in order to keep the country within the euro, the government partner comes and presents another alternative proposal. And no one felt the need to say a word. And I am not talking, much more about the issue of Mr Taffillis, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence, who, as has been said, is a subcontractor of the 'LOCKHEED'. There was no comment for him either.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u342	He denounced it unequivocally. Do not replicate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u343	He's sued that too. You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u344	You're welcome. Mr. Koutsoukos thinks he's in a matter. Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u345	Did you make any remarks to anyone who was out of the question, Mr President? You do not, at least, claim the role of the President. You have another culture and we have welcomed it. We're on public television now. Who, ladies and gentlemen, at least has a democratic perception and course, does not want a public television pluralist, objective, projecting our country's culture, our language, our timeless values? I am referring to democracy, equality, equality, solidarity, the traditional values of production and work. I think if this were to be the case, we would all agree that this is what we want for public television, not for state television. And the question arises: Can public television compete with the private sector - unless you think we can dismantle the private media sector - if it is not competitive, that is, if it is not selling? A public television with little audience, without advertising revenue, obviously does not serve the role that we all want theoretically, and the government, to compete with the private sector. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not done with threats, it is not done with legislative intervention. Bring here, Mr. Voutsi, as many legislative interventions as you want. We'll vote for them, we have nothing to fear. The tail of the donkey is not set, and we lose the thirty seconds of our projection. But, Mr. Voutsi, you, like us, have a history of shaping this landscape. Why did you refer to it, without me reminding you, that you were 15 years ago at the Coalition Press Office and you know when this sinful period began and with whose agreement in 1989.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u346	In 1990-1991 it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u347	And I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it has been a long time since we had a proposal in Parliament for a public tender for authorisation from 1989 to 2004. And that was what the Simitis government did in 2004 and had a deadline. Then came the Karamanlis government and suspended the competition and went back to the vicious circle and we are in the same regime. So go ahead. We have nothing to fear. Whatever the public interest promotes, we will support it. And let me tell you something else, ladies and gentlemen, of the majority. We, noting the passions of public television, despite the areas of the law of the 1980s and despite its offer, have drawn up a project, the so-called 'Alvizatou' project, with very many changes and areas, so that there can be transparency, objectivity. Then came the Minister, who was now responsible for Mr. Papapas, Mr. Mosialos, to present also his own plan which we thought was too progressive and has to do with changing the way that public television operated, unleashing it from state scratch, dealing with the pathogens for which it was not just the governments and we did not have time to do so. Many have been fed at the ERT dean all these years, many have made political careers at the expense of ERT and exploiting the ERT and the problems that were then created. And we went to the Samara - Kuveli - Venizelos, the tripartite, for the national reasons we have explained many times. And the unilateral action of Mr. Samaras on June 11, 2013 came and threw "black" and denounced it as PASOK and said we would not vote on the legislative act in Parliament. I would remind a number of colleagues, who yesterday when we voted on the other legislative act - I do not believe they will now say it again, when we vote next on the fines - they were telling us about the act that never came to Parliament. Why, ladies and gentlemen, did the act not come to Parliament? Because there was no majority to vote on. We have also tabled a proposal for a law to ensure that the act of legislation does not apply. Meanwhile, according to the country's progress and the major issues we agreed and on 20 June 2013, a statement was made by Mr. Venizelos of the Agreement to reopen public television with a status of transparency, objectivity and with two thousand recruitments at first stage and the law came here for NERIT and we voted for it and safeguarded certain issues relating to the recruitment process with ASEAN, but it also safeguarded certain issues relating to objectivity processes through the Supervisory Board. How did things turn out? You should not only seek the responsibility for us, but also look at the dynamics of developments. And in any case, you get the majority and you commit yourself to bringing a bill to rebuild ERT from the start. And what do you bring now? A change in the existing law. In practice this must, of course, be done, because huge legal problems will arise if we remove the existing provisions and start from the start. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let us agree with you. Does this draft law you have submitted meet the terms and conditions of public television, competitive, pluralist, independent, with the criteria we all say? All it is currently serving is the immediate reintegration of workers. And we ask: should we not distinguish the right to work from the role that public broadcasting should serve? We then supported the workers. There are PASOK meetings with POSOPERT, listed, and we can find other ways to resolve labour issues. But I'm telling you, is there an operational plan? Is there an organogram? Is there a description of the qualifications so that we can see what workers we want and what their number is? Are there any procedures to assess them? None of this is there. There is a process that says 'we re-enter them all without knowing if we need them and what we will do to them'. And if, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what you have planned, tomorrow there are deficits, this public service broadcasting can compete with the private sector and play the role that you and we want, as a serious counterweight, intervention by the state in pluralism, information, with all these features that I mentioned? Obviously he can't. A defective public television cannot play this role. We also told you in committee, and our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitidis, said so, and I would like to repeat a few issues too. Didn't you like the Supervision Council of the previous NERIT? Construct otherwise, build a board, which will be about ensuring quality and competitiveness. Set criteria by means of a statement of positions, by public notice of their qualifications. Put the ASA, put the National Broadcasting Council with its new composition, bring it to the House with a majority of 3/5. Put some procedures that will not turn the ERT you want to build into the long hand of the state. Because if we abolish something that you are now enthusiastic about is the long hand of the state to build something else that is under control of your own, I think that is not an honour to the Left Government, which I at least have seen for so many years has one view and one theory of the role of the public media. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we are not voting for the bill. Because we could, if what I said to you - so in a concise way, discuss it here - which concerns not being the Minister who is taking part in the assembly. What's the Minister doing? Is the Minister a shareholder? Shareholder is the Treasury. Or will the Minister have a responsibility to appoint the board of directors and, indeed, a board of directors without qualifications, without any conditions? Who do you have in mind? Someone from the pile? If you do not put a supervisory board on these conditions, that is, if you do not define certain such procedures, we cannot obviously vote on this draft law. Otherwise we are here to participate with our proposals. In addition, our rapporteur will also develop them tomorrow in the debate on the articles. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. The floor has been requested by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr. Friend. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today on ERT is not a routine bill. It's not a bill of minor importance. It is to use a phrase, a word that we are discussing at this time very much - an attempt to reform, because reform in our own logic is not the removal of rights by citizens, but the safeguarding and broadening of citizens' rights. And the right to objective information is an essential asset - intangible, but very substantial - because its function affects the heart of the political system and democracy. What are we living in our country these days? We are living up to a overthrow of the political system, the philosopher of the political system, the intertwined political system, the post-government bipartism. One party was vented by his sins, the other follows from behind. And what do we see, too? With popular vote and popular participation to form an alternative pole - a pole of governance today - progressive, democratic, left-wing, social, a pole, which has been committed from the outset to move these overturns towards the benefit of citizens. It was not only the parties of the leading bipartism that formed this pole that collapsed. They were bankers - bankrupt today, but in the hands of bankers who went bankrupt. They were public entrepreneurs with supplies and public works - and they seem to have their own difficulties, but their own pockets of money somewhere else kept. And it was, of course, the information system, private, intertwined and public, constantly degraded and constantly devoid of public awareness. I would remind you in 1989, when the decision was made to create the system of private television and radiophony in Greece, and when the power, the two major branches of the New Democracy and PASOK, at that time unfortunately with the complicity and the then Left, the single coalition - unfortunately, we too followed 'we' because I was also there to recognize - they agreed to establish this system in the measures of the barons of information. The publishers have built private television and radio, controlling completely the right to information since then. I would like here, for reasons of honesty, to remind you that in this Chamber there was only one disagreement from the then President of DIANA and later President of the Republic, Mr Kostis Stefanopoulos. Man has just referred to self-evidently, as he has just said, "There is no concept of temporary leave, because you think we can get temporary driving licences. We would all be killed on the streets next day by various newspapers, and first of all by the "BIMA" - I remember it very well - attacks about being a pig. It matters. Anybody who rises in stature is under attack. And at this time we are also being attacked. Only we are not one, with a strong system toward us, a system that can impose its terms at any time. We are a people, who look forward to a new path for our country and a central point on this new path, the more we all find jobs, the more we all have collective labour agreements, the more we all have social rights in education, in health, everywhere, is the right to information, to information without being controlled by the great interests. These days there was an arrest announcement and finally the big businessman was forced to pay his debt. From whose channel he owns in some way, we didn't find out what happened. Who, what, when, where, nothing. That is information and that is why it is important - it is not a matter of information, ERT and channels. Those who think that all the other issues are infinitely more important lie, pretend. Because all the other issues, namely the ability to negotiate with the outside and with the media, to collide with the outsiders and with the media, are subject to the possibility of direct, unmediated communication with the citizens, with society. That is why we are proposing ERT, not because we want to bring back a thousand five hundred workers. That's a second matter. Because we want public information, information that respects the public interest, to respect the citizen. And along with the ERT will also come the next steps concerning the democratic order in the private and broadcasting jungle. We have heard a lot of things, which look like an apology to the old regime. I am sorry, but I have heard here at this Step parties representatives, not good, of course, but with great zeal, advocates of interlocutory. Why do you take one step, because the other one, let's see if you get the money, he owes the state to the channels too. I mean, all right, people hear and draw conclusions. You have your debts, your bills. Okay. But we want to defend our work, because we have confidence. You have to understand that what happened with ERT in June 2013, what has happened with private radio and television since 1989, has been the definition of a country outside Europe, outside the acquis, outside European legitimacy. I heard how easily the representative of the JRC told us everything was taken. It's about a cool theater. It's not like that. In any case, when the representatives of the JRC talk about the subject of information, they should think more. There is a global and time-consuming experience of what is happening in Europe and elsewhere. So - and that is where I want to end up - with our legislative initiative we are bringing back our country at the heart of European reality. It is no coincidence that the Association of European Televisions did not recognize the format of NERIT and did a year and after a great background to recognize this form, it did not actually recognize it if anyone saw it. Some have tried to defamate the legislative initiative. They say the party is continuing. Why is it going on? We return without any repetition of parties, all those appointed and employed when the ERT was closed. And we know that they, by a large majority, did not vote for our own space, because they had not been appointed by us there. We're not taking our own kids. We are exploiting the potential that you have hired, through procedures not always clean, but also through clear procedures - I do not want to blame anyone - but yours - I do not recognize it, but I say it for the sake of the debate - children. We are re-entering workers without party criteria and that is how we deal with them. Secondly, we are told that "good, and is the Minister for the Board appointed?" Do you have any other suggestions? Was the NERITS Supervisory Council or any other body appointed elsewhere? There was just the pillow there, which seemed too thin to deal with the party squeeze of Ms. Vulture and the others who controlled the former government's information system. I would remind you that those appointed by the government did not stand - two administrations did not stand - and they left, denounced the insults they had received in their work. So let's not talk about partyism. Thirdly, on the issue of partyisation - from now on we are all giving examinations - it will firstly be apparent whether the Minister responsible - and the House will agree with the procedure mentioned - that the people who have the responsibility for ERT should be persons of identifiable social value and not the 'cabe' of a party of government. It does not mean that the faces that we have on our "cava" are the most capable, - no - nor the most incompetent. It will also be chosen on broader criteria. We also accept proposals. Let there be consultation on this matter. Secondly, it will be seen from the programme and from the people we will trust the information and entertainment of the Greek people. And it is certain that ERT today has great potential to gain the trust of Greek citizens and not to be a marginal media medium, as it has so far been because of its defamation from governments, but to enter reliablely within the house, within the household. ERT will only be able to proceed if you give tests and gain credibility. Otherwise, it is very difficult to inform our country. I left the issue of 'DIGEA' last. DIGEA's theme is a scandal in itself. The first scandal took place in '89 when the newspaper barons took the media. The second scandal was the 'DIGEA', which was rightly stressed, compared with eighteen million for seven-and-a-half years, emits seven pan-Hellenic channels. So each channel a year pays a subtle sum as it makes half a episode of a serial. That's the rent they give. It's trivial. They give two hundred and thirty thousand seven pan-Hellenic channels a year. I mean, it's a comedy. At the same time for a smaller digital spectrum - I stress this - mobile telephone companies have paid - or will pay, however, have accepted - EUR 30 million. What's going on here, guys? There's a public interest. What is there here? Are there any gifts? We're asking to understand. And as Mr. Voutsis rightly pointed out, the contest was quickly made - so that SYRIZA would not come and there would be a fait accompli there too - with a candidate. We have, in other words, a complete violation of European legislation and for that reason and for the reason that the programme provider is identified with the network provider. So we have scandals that we need to put down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think that the attempt made by our country, unfortunately, has also found lawyers here. They will close - they say - the private channels and they will be unemployed and we are not interested in the unemployed in the private sector. Don't rot. Not rotting here between us. To be serious. No one's gonna shut down, but they're all gonna work on the criteria of healthy business. You wanted to clean up? The equity ratio with loans must be the same, as is the case with the last small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot obtain a loan today. The same relationship will apply, not what is happening today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are not going to let workers become a shield of the various intertwined interests and fraudulent interests. Be sure of that. There is a provision of the state. There are mechanisms. There's a Labour Inspectorate. There are - I repeat - legal procedures that can guarantee rights. Anyone who can't have the operation, like in your capitalism, will not have it. She'll be taken in a clean and legal way. I shall conclude, Mr President - I apologise for the slight extension - by saying that everything we say is part of the negotiation. Because the Memorandum had some good things in it. I don't know if the ratio is 70% to 30% of the bad things. But he had some good things to do with the memorandum, one of which was that they had to pay money for the licenses and have order in the anarchy and the Mint jungle. We put it forward. There we are, fulfilling a Memorandum of Understanding. This is what we call the 'Memorandum of Obligation'. Please help you, too, as a memorial to go ahead with this Memorandum of Understanding. We're fulfilling a commitment to the Greek people, though. This obligation is not to govern others and not to continue to govern a rotten closed system of power. We are also fighting this battle here and in negotiation here and out. And unfortunately, it turns out that outside we can find ways to proceed with the negotiation through conflicts, with openness, through controversy, but that there is a awareness of the mutual benefit. In Greece, however, the interests of the internal troika are too strong and will need greater determination to conflict and break this closed system of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Friend. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are interrupting the debate on the principle of the draft law: 'Confidentiality of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and an amendment of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure. 2190/1920 and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u352	SYRIZA MP Zacharias Konstantinos submitted a report to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the recruitment of regular staff from PPC S.A. The bodies referred to request that total working time be deducted in the form of an eight-month period from the age of the applicant if it is more than thirty-five years in order to ensure that employees with significant experience and know-how can be selected for PPC’s needs. Parliamentarians of Ioannina Mr. Merope Jufis and Mr. Christos Mantas submitted a petition to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Open letter of employees of the General Hospital of Hatzikista, on the lack of personnel in the X-ray lab". MP Argolidas Mr Ioannis Andrianos submitted to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, pointing out the need to implement the n. Other information: (a) 4267/2014, including a provision on free campsite. MEP Larissa Mr Christos Kelles made a reference to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Open letter from the former Members of the Fokidas Law Mr.Aspasias Mandreka to the Minister of Health and Social Security on health structures in Fokida". Congressman Heraklion Spyros Danellis submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the problems that arise in the implementation of the programmes of producer organisations in the olive oil and table olive sector, known as the Organisations of Oil-organizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u353	At this point, the reading of the petitions was completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under No 133/21-4-2015 of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anastasia Garas to the Foreign Minister on transnational responsibilities in the management of the Evros River. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Eukleidis Tsakalotos. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u355	Minister, I would like to thank you for your presence here from the outset and for the opportunity to raise you directly with problems and issues concerning our fellow citizens. I'm going straight to the point. My presence and the question I ask you today concerns the extensive flooding affecting the Prefecture of Evros over the last five years. Since 2006, they have been showing up, but in the last five years they have become more and more frequent. One of the reasons that we have seen and which concerns the floods of the entire prefecture is the poor management and poor cooperation of the three countries from which the river passes. The consequences are experienced, we see them. I don't have to describe them. They are about the destruction of both primary and secondary sectors of a whole turnover, the destruction of infrastructure and of houses. We know them very well and, unfortunately, the citizens of Evros are experiencing them and we do not have so many years of solutions. However, a large number of transnational agreements have been signed for years on the basis of European directives, and they have been found not to be respected on the Bulgarian side. In particular, it has been established - and I would point out - that while there is agreement on a certain number of completeness in the three Bulgarian dams that concern and affect the Evros river, the Bulgarian side, because it sells water for the sake of electricity generation to private individuals, retains dams in full well above what is permitted. In the slightest sense these dams are overflowing, so there is no evacuation and a violent transport of water on the Greek side. For all these reasons, and for many others, which I can summarily highlight, such as the lack of infrastructure or the ineffectiveness of the projects that have been done, climate change, as well as the change in use of land, lead us to all these results, which we have seen. That is why I would like to ask you and answer me this: What initiatives do you intend to take to ensure effective cooperation between the three countries in water management? Would you like to request assistance from the competent European Union institutions in violating the relevant conditions of the Treaties? What measures do you intend to take for the immediate establishment by the States concerned of a management and intra-military protection framework?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u357	Thank you for the question, my colleague. As you can see, we too understand that the problem is serious and the Ministry feels that the integrated management of the cross-border waters of Greece - Bulgaria - Turkey is a very important issue and from the point of view of the floods that are created both in terms of the environment and in terms of the economic development of northern Greece and especially of agricultural production. The main responsibility for addressing the floods in Evros and in general water management issues fall within the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction. I must tell you that the management of cross-border waters is governed by rules binding on the Member States in their implementation. These rules stem from the international contractual framework, which is an ESPOO, RAMSAR, etc. and the framework directives of the European Union. In particular, I am referring to Directive 200060 on water, the Water Framework Directive, which concerns both the common management of transboundary waters and the 200760 directive on floods. The implementation of these directives is a decisive lever against Bulgaria in favour of our positions. The question of the application of the European Framework Directives again falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Production Reconstruction Special Secretariat. For its part, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for coordinating, consulting states in water management and our main concern is Bulgaria's compliance with European and international rules. On the Greek side, it is firmly stressed that Bulgaria's obligations, arising both from the international contractual framework and from the framework directives of the European Union, should be respected. In this context, both during the first Greek-Turkey Cooperation Council on 14 May 2010 and Greece-Bulgaria, signed on 27 July 2010, joint declarations were signed between the Ministries of the Environment, in which, among other things, they commit themselves to avoid flooding. As regards the cooperation of our country with Bulgaria, following the joint declaration of the Ministers for the Environment, four meetings of the Joint Cooperation Group of Experts have been held, the Joint Expert Working Group, for the waters of Nestos, Stremona and Evros. This group operates as a meeting area for mutual information and exchange of data necessary for the preparation of management plans and for the resolution of relevant problems. The last meeting of this group took place in Athens in May 2014. Despite the signing of the agreements and the meetings that are taking place, it is true that Bulgaria, by way of derogation from the principles and directives of the European Union concerning the preparation of plans for the management of cross-border water basins, has often shown counterproductive attitudes. It seems to be aimed at managing water use control, which is a timeless, clear strategic choice of the Bulgarian Governments. It is noted that when the flood problem emerged in Evros, in early February 2015, the competent Bulgarian authorities refused once again to contact the Greek authorities and avoided the occurrence of the floods in the Evros region. However, the information I have is that many necessary steps have not been taken by our country in previous years, such as cleaning the river bed. The strengthening of the dams always starts after flooding problems have been identified and not in the summer, as they should. The new Greek Government will do its utmost to ensure that the relevant regional and municipal authorities do not repeat the omissions of the past and that the negative impact of the floods is kept as low as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u359	Minister, I am very pleased that you have full knowledge of all the meetings and agreements signed and of the moves made to manage the water. However, it has not worked. It is also good that you are committed that you intend to proceed with such actions in order to effectively resolve the issue. However, I would like to ask again what action the government has taken recently to deal effectively with the question of water management and whether you have done so? Also, what is the government's strategy to resolve the issue definitively, what tools can the government use in this direction and finally, if there are specific timetables for the actions you intend to take?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u360	On the first question you raised, namely what we have done, from a Greek point of view, the question of water management and flood avoidance has been raised several times and at the highest political level between the Prime Ministers of the two countries at the last Supreme Cooperation Council in Athens, two years ago. Also, there have been official démarches from our embassy in Sofia, as well as the Bulgarian Ambassador to Athens. This issue will be raised again at the next meeting of the Greek Joint Working Party of Experts - Bulgaria for cooperation in the field of water and the environment. The Greek Embassy in Sofia has already asked for the meeting to be accelerated by the competent Bulgarian authorities. In relation to our strategy, our country's main priority is the installation and effective functioning of an early warning system, the so-called 'early warning system', in order to address these phenomena. The government will continue to monitor closely the issues that are related and to seek our utmost influence at all levels so that Bulgaria can show a constructive attitude and comply with its bilateral, European and international commitments in the areas of water management and flood prevention. Now, with regard to the tools you have asked us and how we will use them on our side, I would point out that the supply of the necessary equipment, its management and any intervention in the areas of the necessary infrastructure can be included in the Territorial Cooperation Programme. These European Union programmes are being implemented in two or more bordering states. These programmes will be co-financed through resources from the European Regional Development Fund. They would have given a definitive solution from 2007 to 2013, but were not implemented. We aspire to incorporate them into the new programming period 2014-2020 and call on you to press the OTAs as well so that they can take the necessary initiatives to implement these projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the third with No 126/20-4-2015 topical question from the Attica MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, on the major issue of the increased flow of illegal immigrants to Greece. The question will be answered by Minister Nikolaos Voutsis. Here, Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much. Today's bill for the reopening of ERT was presented as a victory for democracy. But I saw this 'democracy win' on television in a prison cell because I was denied my presence in Parliament. So what democracy do you talk about when Parliament operates with fewer than three hundred Members? The magnificence right closed us in prison, hit the folk nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn with the illegal means that you all know who it is, you all heard, you all saw the videos, you all heard the orders of the former Prime Minister. And the majestic Left continues this crime. And I am speaking of a grand left, of course, because the negotiating team's leader, Mr Tsakalotos, who spoke just now, is also one of many SYRIZA officials with statements - over 500,000 euros, as far as I know - to BLACKROCK, JPMORGAN. I have to open up this parenthesis, because Greece has a problem with democracy today. I cannot come to Parliament this afternoon, do parliamentary control, and in the morning have been forbidden by the same prosecutor to come to Parliament, to speak to a bill. This is because decisions have been taken, Memorandum bills with fewer than three hundred Members of this House have been passed. And this is a great illegality, which continues today. Illegality continues to legitimize the illegality of the previous government. Mr Minister, I tell you because you have shown modestness in this matter. You have dealt with this with more realism than other colleagues, and I must stress this. There is no victory for democracy when the parliament operates with fewer than three hundred MPs. Let me now go to the matter of my topical question. I ask for a little tolerance for time. It is a question of the majority of Greek society, of all Greek citizens, but of course of course, living in suburbs, where illegal immigration flows have not yet arrived. I'm using the term "death immigration" not because I want to reduce people. Here the Greek language is specific. "Lather" is the hunter who illegally hunts. ‘Smuggler’ means a trader who trades goods illegally. So "lmmigrant" is the illegal immigrant who has entered a country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This major national issue is neither a matter of race nor religion. We do not care if the people who enter the country are from Bangladesh, from Pakistan, to which nation they belong, from which state they come, to which god they believe. We do not care about these issues. Many times the Government and Opposition "fly the ball on the platform" and blame the Golden Dawn, because Golden Dawn is the only party to deal with this major issue that concerns millions of our fellow citizens. So I ask the following: First of all, what do you intend to do with those who have entered the country illegally and are already on Greek territory? Because the root of the problem is in the Syrian illegal immigrant and not a refugee. We are not talking about refugees, especially political refugees, because in the case of the Golden Dawn the political rights of MPs, human rights for MPs and citizens have been violated. We would be political refugees on the substance and not Syrians to avoid militarisation and fight against the jihadists. The first question, therefore, is what you intend to do with those who are inside the Greek territory, namely the one who enters, who is very well dressed. You know - you've seen the pictures on TV - that they're not rackets anymore those who come to Greece today. They're very well dressed, with iphone phones. They take pictures, they send to their site, to their nearby and distant relatives who are in Syria and they say, "Look at what is nice that is in Greece, come and you, here!" According to Mr. Dritsa, the Minister of Shipping, there are two million people waiting on the Asia Minor coast. So, what do you intend to do with those in the country and how do you intend to deal with this increased current, this terrible current - the Prime Minister spoke of one and a half million and the Minister of Shipping for two million - this issue, which will take on flooding dimensions? After summer it will literally be the biggest problem faced by Greece, greater than the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u363	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u364	There are detailed answers, but it would take a long time to tell them. In any case, you have tabled written questions, which are also given to you by the Ministry of Civil Protection, with detailed references to the necessary equipment and support for all rescue services, not only on the coast, but also on the port and all the strategy around this issue. I would prefer to answer you from breasts on this issue, which is very important, starting with the fact that Mr Dritsa said that there are two million people in Turkey right now. He didn't say they were ready to come to Greece. This isn't about it. In Turkey, by calculation, there are more than two million of those in host camps or in transition, in Jordan and Lebanon, perhaps so many others. These populations are therefore created which may - and let us hope - may be temporary in the sense that no man wants to leave his country. Their first choice is to return to their own countries when these countries stop falling apart. We know very well that the new waves, such as the eastern part of the Mediterranean, are at this stage of refugees at 65% to 80%, from countries which are at first sight - there is a specific name for how this is done in relation to refugee papers - are entitled to take refugee papers, due to the Eastern Mediterranean in the dissolution of Syria, Iraq, the jihadists' wars there, etc., in the rest of the Mediterranean, to the end of the 'Arabian Spring' - at least for some of these countries - and to the break-up of Libya. There are intrinsic causes of millions of refugees or even classical immigrants from other countries, such as previous years, and which create a problem which, as it turns out, if the interventions, the civils, the appalling economic and other differences that produce these flows are not stopped, it will be a problem of nightmare first of all for themselves. Because, knowingly, they take their children and enter the sapiacara or boats that know that others will be torn apart to go to a better future. We managed a few things at the last extraordinary conference held at the level of Heads of State and following an interministerial meeting on Greek priorities. You know that while at the beginning the report concerned only the flows from Libya and the entry of immigrants without papers or irregular immigrants mainly in Italy with deaths of thousands of people - three and a half thousand are in 2014 and early 2015 - to deal with this issue at the point and on the basis of the operational data available there - because they come with large ships - there has been a change, a big turn. The joint communiqué of European countries at the level of leaders is now specifically referring to the flows that exist in the eastern Mediterranean, to the entry from Greece, to the whole issue at this gate of entry in recent years, but in particular, for this year. In fact, very increased amounts were adopted in relation to the past which was little. To understand, Italy had received 50 million and 1.5 million or 3 million of our country in the previous plan. At the same time, there were a few tens of millions of specific structures for either accommodation or small structures, such as those we are saying now for the intermediate, that is, as long as it takes, which can be from a week to a month - I hope only - so that those who deserve the refugee's status can get their cards. There were such money and now more has been approved. There is agreement with FRONTEX too. There are requests from the port, which are ports and not under the responsibility of the port or the Greek Government, at least at present. We hope that requests for additional vessels, etc. will be met. There is quite good cooperation - at least there is awareness of the issue - with regional, mayorial and so on, with which we are taking very concrete action. Generally speaking, it is a crucial issue. When we said three years ago - and even had conflicts on this issue - that it is a matter that comes from the future, no one believed us. It was, in other words, considered that it was a matter of the past, some of the ideas and that this entry of immigrants and refugees to Europe could be stopped. That is not so, as long as such problems are produced, as long as there are appalling economic disparities, as long as there are incredibly environmental issues. For example, I could inform you that already in Bangladesh - and this had been said 20 years ago at the international conferences on the environment - a large part of the square kilometres of soil has retreated under water and are now producing environmental refugees. I repeat that nobody wants to leave their country. Even those in the waterless parts of Afghanistan do not want to make tens of thousands of kilometres, to spend, to give money to slave traders to come to Europe. All this must be dealt with in the countries that are born, there must be the intervention of the so-called civilized world, the West, with programmes, with jobs, with security, with the help of stopping the civil conflicts, let alone the jihadist phenomenon which is strengthened by Europe. Twelve thousand are the Europeans, who have gone from Central Europe and have dented the jihadists. These fear first of all and not the others that are possible with elements, biometrics or others to be identified in their passages. Why did I say all this? We are fully aware of all this, together with the authorities of the country, the police, the port, with the structures of immigration policy that are currently set up on a more permanent and clear basis, so that, for example, the paper can be given to refugees and not fifty per year. Fifty per year we gave for years and were twenty thousand who expected. In all this we are trying, in contact with Europe, to restore a different policy - on the basis of our humanitarian logic and policy - and above all to convince us of a mutual commitment of responsibility from all European countries on this issue. The policy that said "shoot them into the sea", "do tricks", "transmit them from here and there", "shoot them or let them drown" or "Let Greece be the manguard of Europe" has eaten its bread. They've figured it out. We are very clear about these issues. Because it is a national-scale issue in terms of dealing with it, I hope that we will see a step forward - that these policies can also not enter this adventure that is an adventure of life, and we, as a country, deal with a very serious issue both in terms of humanitarian response to these citizens, but also in terms of the social fabric of the country which is often tested through coexistence with such flows. Thank you, Mr President, and I'm sorry I've had enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi. Mr. Cassidy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u366	You will also need to be second-guessed, because it was in many places right in the steps with which you analysed. I agree on most of the points you have raised. We have noted from 1992 the issue of illegal immigration and the problems it is going to cause in Greece in the future. And what I am saying today is that the policy, which is being followed - and I will analyse the mistakes of the policy you intend to follow, because we, too, have studied the European leaders' announcements very well and I will highlight their mistakes - will be disastrous for Greece and I will highlight why. In a few years' time, then, the Greeks will be a minority within our country and there will be total cultural alienation of Greece. This may not bother you. You may want Greece to become a multicultural country, wish to have dozens of mosques, Islamic mosques etc. This, however, is something that runs counter to our tradition, our culture, our party's positions and the vast majority of Greek citizens. And I have to say that when SYRIZA was elected first party, he did not say in his programming positions that he would open the gates and say, "Come to everyone you want in Greece." Of course, I am quite clear about the statements made by the appropriate State Secretary for immigration. Not to repeat them now. There's no reason. What I have to say is that this policy is not humanitarian. No one has said, "Get them to the sea to drown." But when you say, "Come freely in the country", in this disgusting way, with slave traders, who also collaborate with circuits in the NDP, the police, etc., it makes sense that people are drowned, stacked on these slave ships. European leaders have said that we will go to the UN Security Council so that in their bases, in Libya, they do not care what is going on in their bases in Turkey, in Izmir, which start slavery with thousands of people - to immerse them. This practice, according to European leaders, will be followed. And this practice we would suggest that we follow as a state. Here is a solution to the problem: Slaves leave people, many of whom are drowned during this process. Returning to slave trade, it can be easily captured by the Greek authorities, the Greek Army and the Navy. There are units - the Port House is not enough - in the Greek Army that have taken care of our islands from the Turkish expansion risk. These units can easily hit the slave trade. When the slave trade comes and lands people, it can be very comfortable to hit and capture slave traders, if the Army is involved, the special units of the Greek Army, the Navy in these operations. And I repeat, this proposal of the Golden Dawn is, in essence, identical to what has been discussed in Europe about the involvement of the Security Council, about the involvement of warships, warships, the hitting of slaves. But what's the problem? Cameron, Olad, all of them talked about research and rescue. And you spoke a little while ago about research and rescue. Research and rescue is the root of the problem, because it works as a magnet. These people are on Turkish territory. We call small coastlines and do not say Turkey. At this stage it is indeed Turkish territory. The Minister spoke of beaches. The two million are on the coast. And many other millions are on the eastern border of Turkey, that is to say, Turkey - Syria. The two million on the coast are there to go to Greece. With regard to them, therefore, to giving more money from Europe for research and rescue, it will act as a magnet, speed up the flow and increase the problem. Because when everyone knows that, by breaking the boats, Greek warships or allies will come directly to collect them, then these flows will increase to a very large extent. This is therefore not a solution, but it will increase the problem even further. I would remind you of what the Prime Minister of England Cameron said: 'Those who are received by rescuers, warships, will go to the nearest port'. Even if FRONTEX is upgraded and carries large ships and more staff, it will take these people and take them to Kos, Samos, Lesvos, and the problem will grow in Greece. So my question - and that is why I asked you to give a second answer - is what we will do here in Greece, where soon now the citizen will suffocate even more. Because the citizen of the centre of Athens, who we are interested in and making all this fuss today, and I come from prison to Parliament, suffocating today. You know that very well. And no one's dealing with his problem. Of course, we're humanists. We're all humanists. Why should we not be humanists too? Olad - I am referring to Olad and the other European leaders, because it was the basis of your reply - he said 'we will accept five hundred refugees in the number'. That's a mock. How many are illegal immigrants? How many are the refugees? How many foreign nationals have come illegally to Greece in our country? Can France speak of five hundred refugees and the European Union as a whole speak of five thousand relocation posts and say that it will send FRONTEX here, which I inform you is doing spying against Greece? You know that once the alien enters the country, FRONTEX seals it by saying 'country of origin: Greece'. If he is arrested in Luxembourg, he is not retreated into his home country, Bangladesh or Pakistan, but in Greece he is growing the problem in Greece. To close, I'd like to say something at the bottom of my question. You hinted on an issue that is major. We have said - Golden Dawn has proposed this for several years - that the only solution in the end is to give them travel documents, to leave the country and to get people to live in Europe or wherever they want. The Government spokesman had made a hint on this matter. This statement on the performance of travel documents to go to Europe was released at the Athenian News Agency and after five minutes it became correct to repeat the statement and removed this part of it that had to do with rendering travel documents to foreigners, to go to Europe. You did a hint, but you didn't make it clear. If you have that intention, that is to give them papers to leave Greece, it is a position which is certainly very close to the national interest and we welcome it. But, from there on, it is illegal to enter Greece illegally against thousands of days, the law says that they should be deported and that this law should not be observed. Then you're accountable for this very illegality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and four teachers from the General School of Jermiadon Lassithi and Kerasohori High Evritania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u368	I would like to clarify a few points. In Greece there are about fifteen thousand registered legalized immigrants and about three hundred and fifty thousand with four hundred thousand irregular immigrants. It is therefore very important that there should be an objective registration and a policy exercise both for the seasonal work that exists, for other work or for the re-promotion or other policies included in the country's existing legal and legislative framework. However, it is clear that what we are facing now goes beyond this management of this reality, for which already in 2013, 2014 and 2015 there is an upward flow. That is, already forty-three thousand years ago, he went to seventy-five thousand, and we can already go this year - not to say that we will definitely go - to hundred thousand or more. The new element - I mentioned it to you - is that 65% to 80% of these specific flows are clearly mentioned in Status political refugee. It is from countries where this status can indeed be attributed - I am talking about the current situation, as it is developing - and therefore we need the structures that we have to do from what we have signed up to the European Union, to do so very quickly. Small, closed structures or open storage centres should be strengthened. We have taken steps in this regard - or in any case we have taken welfare measures - to strengthen the centres that will give these papers and measures, particularly to get rid of the islands, namely to stay there from one to two - and not more days, to move to other centres, because the tourist season actually starts and is an extra burden. Nevertheless, I repeat that, with the contribution of local government, other spaces can be found, so that outside the central social fabric, these procedures can be carried out. I respond so calmly - you know - on this issue because we are all aware that these migratory flows are issues which will either be dealt with in their way of production or which will not be dealt with. Remember in our country when it became civil and we were very back in the country’s productive reconstruction, immediately two or two and a half million people stood up and fled. All right! You're gonna tell me it was with interstate or non-international or some people went to the island outside New York. It's not like that. This is a question if the European Union wants and if the other developed countries want to tackle - and to deal with a 21st century horizon - it should be addressed in depth, with assistance, with structures, with opportunities within their countries to stay there and with the cessation or abusing of the outbreaks that make these flows mainly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, what comes in with a share of responsibility - I repeat with responsibility - according to the economic situation of each country in the European Union, should take it and not give money to make some countries - what has become, that is, human guards and against thousands of other people with their little children drowning in the Mediterranean. The Mediterranean was and must remain a sea of peace, of friendship, of solidarity, of interrelation between the peoples. That's our perspective. You know her very well. Obviously we do not agree, but it is important for the public dialogue to approach matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Minister. We proceed to the fourth with No. 139/21-4-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures to remove waste in the Municipality of Pyrgos and Ancient Olympia in the Prefecture of Ilia. The Minister will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u370	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, Mr Minister, it is well known that there is a problem in the Tower, in Ancient Olympia, but also in other cities and in the Peloponnese and not only. Already in Pyrgos, based on moderate estimates, it is about thirteen thousand tons of garbage inside the city and also in the surrounding villages of the wider Municipality of Pyrgos. This means that, in fact, the collection process has been stopped since autumn. A corresponding picture is also found in Ancient Olympia. All this, of course, the accumulation of waste, the increase in temperature poses enormous risks to public health. It is no coincidence that for one week immediately after their holiday Easter the schools were closed in the city of Pyrgos. Of course, this is not today, it did not happen from one day to the next. In our view, it is a time-consuming crime of the former governments, regional and local administrations, that is, the districts of the counties and the municipalities. In our opinion, Mr Minister, we have a methodological plan that says that under the pressure of waste, the huge amount of waste, people should accept their privatisation, the assignment of waste and the management of waste to individuals, in such a way as to guarantee capitalist profit, to multiply the cost of management through the increase in fees. As far as we are concerned, the Government has held a number of meetings, taking some measures, but, in our view, they are semi-meters, such as a three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. But that is not the issue. From the picture we have today, these areas which - anyway - were cleaned up are in front of schools, services and hospitals, while remaining the bulk of the waste in the city of Pyrgos. From this point of view, all questions are normal, Minister. We want the draft of the government so that the remaining tons of waste can be removed immediately, without, of course, coming to the detriment of the peoples, the peoples, the peoples, both the Municipality of Pyrgos and Ancient Olympia, and of course, this whole situation will not widen any further, bringing the rest of the municipalities to the same position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In addition to the question of the immediate withdrawal of waste, what are the plans for the medium and long term solution to the problem, of course, in the direction of not dealing with waste management and not shifting to the backs of the public sections itself, through the increase in compensation charges and the increase in taxes? We already know that in municipalities of Elias you have recently given parts of the cleanliness to private workshops, with the argument either that there are no staff or that there are no new recruitments to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u372	Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. I wanted, in view of the CEDEFOP conference that will take place next week, and we will also talk there - and because we need to say things open to the world - to say that I am absolutely angry at what has happened to the Ilias Tower. In fact, they are not solutions with which hearings are also pressing neighbouring prefectures. It is unacceptable as a start, as a strategy. It would not be a solution for even thirteen or ten thousand to get. It's three and a half. They could go five and six and absorb. But what right, in the final analysis? All these years they've been going to Nafpatto. There have been two major conferences at the Ministry, there have been MPs here, mayors, authorities, regional directors. The issue is not the central government, but it is the primary and secondary district. But we really did, because you understand that when it comes to getting out a prefecture in an emergency or being covered - and whatever legal consequences, you can see what I mean - neighbors who are called to take the garbage, they also want a minister or government intervention. That is why we have become involved, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u373	It's been a long time since that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u374	We will see everything at the CEDEFOP conference. When I went to the Ministry on the third day, they had arranged to sign on 31 December, on the last day, the previous decentralised administrations, in cooperation with some regional authorities, a sum of 11 million, which is huge - it is not for today's data - especially for seven, eight, ten places in the Peloponnese, completely selective. You should know that for the Tower it was six hundred thousand. For three months, nothing has been done and it will either be run over to see what has happened or as the mayor said himself accepts that they are next. Yes, sir. They had designed a design for the entire Peloponnese with the great "fraragon" factories, i.e. mixed garbage, to specific companies, which I will not mention. It had become a whole business plan. We are completely opposed to this design. We're going to new national planning. We said it when the four factories that were to be held in Athens were cancelled. Even the European Union, for ten years now, has left this age group, namely mixed garbage, where tons of tons are produced to feed these factories in the peninsula. We're talking about a crime. If the Tower, Tripoli and so on They had designed on the basis of what the European Union says - and not anything strange brains, economists, etc., as we are supposed to - with the minimum of what they have received as subsidies, that is 70% - because it can be consumed up to 70%, assimilated, through the composting, prevention, reuse - you know it all about it - there would be no problem. One gives it to the other, from county to county to take his trash. Crazy things have happened in the crisis. So we told them - and you have seen the press release issued by the Ministry when we made these decisions - 'do what you are doing now'. We gave orders, we were assisted by Mr Katsifara, as well as others, so that there would be a relief, since the health bomb also existed and the schools had closed down. But you will not come back in a month and a half, as Mrs Kouduras said, in view of the period when the cruise ships are coming. It's over. In one and a half months, the overall design, the change in existing design, i.e. small HYTHY and no longer HYTHTA over there, will be 20%, 30%, after the previous process, the intermediate processing process, as it has already done, for example, Kalamata and can cover all municipalities. It's a specific, edited plan. Money has, we've given it to them for three months. They'll sit down. I believe that they have both the esteem and the mood of the local authorities - I have no reason to be in a constant conflict - and they will bring this plan to the medium- and long-term treatment. Finished giving from prefecture to prefecture, from municipality to municipality, and making "fraonic" facilities with mixed garbage. This will end all over the territory. It's not easy, but it's a matter of months to finish. I would like to reaffirm what you said that, as far as we are concerned at least, any procedure that goes to private individuals will be cut off, that they take the trash, have it or take all these actions. There will also be a special relationship with the famous recycling company that you may know and which also has its past, its history of weighing across all municipalities, and they leave there too much money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u376	Minister, I understand the wrath you have made in your reply, but that is not enough, in our opinion. You are right to criticise in previous years, and we are making this criticism. The question is what is going on from now on and here comes the big questions, Minister, because of course it is also the government's responsibility to protect public health, but at the same time it is the national waste management plan which is still being mobilised, not at your own responsibility, of course, but from the outset. On the other hand, we would expect a single language, at least in this matter with regard to the government. There is no single language. Example: There is from 18 February in the Municipality of Ilida - which has not been revoked - by the EMEA. You know the RESEARCH. It is the program of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which says that the creation of a mixed waste management plant in place of Triantafry - where it was to be done - has already joined the 2014-2020 EPA. There was a telephone call from the Secretary-General of Public Partnerships - Private Sector of the Ministry of Development who called the mayor three - four days ago and said to him: "Mayor, proceeded with the factory." So your design on the basis of other projects will be undone, Minister, and there is a huge contradiction. However, the question is this: the six hundred grand, which you have certainly announced is very little money. Only on the basis of the estimates made by themselves - I do not know whether or not they are excessive - they speak of eighty euros each tonne of their concentration and transfer to another HYTAF. For ten thousand tonnes - let us say it is - we are talking about eight hundred thousand plus the machinery of mechanical recycling. It's about eight hundred thousand based on our estimates. So we are talking about two million, which will need as immediate action to give a medium-term solution to this issue. They do not seem to be guaranteed on the part of the Ministry of Finance, regardless of the responsibilities that may be assumed by the mayors of the region or the mayor of Pyrgos on the basis of the six hundred grand that you say "port" since December 2014. On the other hand, Minister, you are well aware that there is a specific circular which has not been withdrawn, on the basis of which the regional plans will be revised. I was at the Western Greek Regional Council. We have now started a revision of regional planning, and for four years we have constantly raised the question of revising regional planning. Yet, on the basis of this circular launched by the April 1, 2014, 1332, which has not been withdrawn, it says that the regional planning needs to be revised on the basis of the logic of the management of mixed waste through factories, and that you have not yet cancelled. You are talking about a national waste and waste management plan, which, on the basis of the logic described above, is trying to further maximise the currents of mixed solid waste so that they can create these plants. And this does not seem to be annulled in practice, Minister, or there are contradictions - let me take this term - of opinions and perceptions within the government. That is why we ask these questions. If you say that you will prepare the new national waste management plan, we believe it should have two very basic elements: firstly, do not allow the commercialisation of waste management and the transfer of burdens on the backs of the people's families by way of fees or by any other charitable way, such as the burial that is provided for in the European directive, or like the 'I pay As I Flying' programme, which is also provided for in the European directive, and of course not to privatise through the partnerships or concessions. On these issues, it must be decisive not, which the JRC says, and also on the issues of how we manage the waste we have an integrated concept. Nevertheless, Minister, apart from the general issue and the more general problem that we will be discussing, I believe it directly because the problems of health bombs are about all over Greece - and not just Elias - for waste management, the immediate issue is how this medium-term solution will be given, which you have also said on the basis of this substantiated funding which cannot meet the needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u378	I just want a minute, Mr President. We attended both conferences, which we did and analysed this logic of planning and the new national plan, which was also reflected in a public announcement, was both the Regional Manager of Western Greece and the decentralised administration, but this is the service of the Ministry. But it is important that it was Mr Katsifaras, all the mayors, representatives of operators and, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Tsironis and the audited agencies from him, his partners and we have agreed in the direction I have told you. Even if there are signs, different approaches, they will certainly be resolved in the direction I have told you. Thank you very much for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the second debate under No 141/21-4-2015 a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Georgios Koumoutsakou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the international aspects of the migration problem. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Hountis. Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know the size of the problem. The dramatic events of recent days that have or almost made the Mediterranean a water grave, the huge problems on the shores of the Greek islands are indicative of the scale of the problem and no one needs to go far away. The predictions are that the problem will be even stronger. The problem will be even bigger. Migration flows will be even more pressing and in size and intensity. There is, therefore, beyond the internal aspect of the management of the problem, the international aspect, and you are asking for it today, Minister. Recently, the Commissioner responsible, Mr Avramopoulos, spoke to the competent committee of the European Parliament, about an extremely difficult year in immigration. For Greece, the big problem has a name and it is said: Turkey's policy on this issue. We must be honest with each other and with the Greek people and with the international community. There is a legal framework. There is the 2001 and 2002 agreement, a bilateral protocol on readmission of Greece - Turkey. There is the 2012 Turkey and FRONTEX conciliation plan. There is the European agreement with Turkey on readmission, but it does not work, because Turkey is wrongly linking it to liberating the visa regime from the European Union for Turkish citizens. However, there is still one thing: Turkey's decision a few years ago to grant a visa status to a number of problematic states or countries. I am referring to a few: Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, Libya, Tunisia, Albania. It has given these countries a free visa regime. You realise that both the incomplete, incomplete, problematic, inconsistent implementation of the institutional framework by Turkey and this policy, which is incomprehensible, of granting a free movement regime in these countries creates strong and great concern. It is the government's responsibility to identify its actions in the European Parliament, where we must ask for greater help. We should also put forward proposals with a view to the European immigration agenda which will be finalised in the near future. But we have to do something else. Let us assume that the problem of immigration is also a security problem in the broad sense of security. You know that security is not only military, it is social, it is also economic. Because migratory flows also pose security risks - you and everyone are aware of what I am talking about - we may have to look seriously at the issue from Greece not only in the European Union but also in the Alliance, in NATO. This is not because we will call for a military response to the problem, but for the pressures of Turkey, too, to comply with the institutional framework that exists, to increase the efficiency of its cooperation, because there is also a security problem for Europe and for NATO, through the border problem in this region of the West that is Greece. So, Minister, there is a glorious field of action. I do not do so by suggestion, but I think it is time, beyond the European dimensions of the problem and our care, to focus on diplomatic representations and actions, by means of notification, with an update of the incredible statistics. For example, we have statistics from the Greek Police. In one day eight hundred illegal immigrants smuggled into the country. I want to use all the terms, because everyone is cadets in our view. These are just one day's data and they all came from Turkey. These elements, Minister, I believe that on a daily basis or, if you like, on a weekly basis, they should be officially disclosed in the form of a démarche in the European Union and in the Alliance. I think there is a field of action, as I told you. I look forward to your reply, of course, knowing that the migration problem has two aspects which make it very difficult. We're protecting two goods. One is the good of human rights. The other is equally valuable and serious: the good of the security of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would like to make some initial comments. Consider the part of the answers I must give you. At the same time, however, I would like to stress the need, the value and the importance of the proper and timely parliamentary procedure of scrutiny, because this question is offered to both. What do I mean? Other questions have been asked - you have just seen written questions from many colleagues from almost all the political areas on the subject of immigration. It is the first question, however, specifically asked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while the other ministries were involved. There we were giving the answers and told the other questions: 'Take answers from the relevant ministries.' That concludes - and it is not a compliment to the breast-feder with me in the European Parliament, my dear colleague - with the awareness that the problem is not a Greek problem. The problem is pan-European. Therefore, in any case, it is not only resolved by national policies. This is very important in order to avoid, ladies and gentlemen, as was partly noted in the previous question on the subject - in the past time this debate has become more acute - this debate is being held in terms of internal political feasibility. And the second feature of this question is - and I thank the honourable Member for the second time - that it is timely, in the sense that what we are looking for - solutions to this problem, obviously focusing on Turkey's relations, etc. - they're in a dynamic. And I'm getting to the answers, and more specifically to the first question. The decisions - forgive me, Mr Kumucako - are not correct in the European wording, there was no decision, a statement is - of the European Council...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u383	I didn't mention it at all. I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u384	... which in part answers to some of the questions you are asking, that this is a pan-European matter, etc., are under way. It also responds in part to NATO's call or the call for a common security and defence policy. You know that there is still a démarche that has been put forward, perhaps through this debate, and is being dealt with in accordance with a newer piece of information from the Secretary-General of the United Nations, due to the dangers of this dimension of the problem. I would therefore like to say that with regard to the European guidelines, which are dynamic and will evolve, we have had a number of general positive measures. It was understood that the problem is a problem in general the Mediterranean, not only is it a tragedy that is evolving in the central Mediterranean. And this is on our own proposal, because the problem of mixed migratory flows arises - and the numbers show that they are in a greater size - on the Syrian side. There was the mention - and here he answers your question, with our insistence on commitment - of closer cooperation with Turkey, saying that he is in any case adjacent to Syria and Iraq. Of course, the question of the movement of persons has been raised and, of course, the question of cooperation with third countries of origin and transit has been raised, especially with regard to the effective treatment of immigration and the readmission process. This is clearly linked to the second and third questions. I will not go any further into what I think is known to you and is under control. And I'm going to the most specific questions about Turkey. You were right to say that the Readmission of Greece - Turkey in 2011 has been signed. There, from the information we have, we see that the implementation of this agreement, this protocol, is not considered satisfactory on the Turkish side. The evidence is interesting. From April 2002 to April 2015 - I am talking about the protocol signed in 2001 - applications for readmission have been submitted to Turkey for a hundred thirty-nine thousand three hundred and forty-five third-country nationals, of which the Turkish authorities have accepted the readmission of thirteen thousand four hundred and eighty-six and finally only three thousand eight hundred forty people. I'm doing a parentheses here, that's what I can send you in writing, because you might not restrain the number, size and order of non-compliance. I think you understand what I mean and I go further. There is, however, a development that, after that, we have the European Union's readmission agreement with Turkey on 16-12-13. This is important in the sense that it is recognised in all relations between the European Union and Turkey and the question of readmission. Here again I can tell you, my dear fellow Member, that on the basis of the information provided by the European Union, it is not considered satisfactory to cooperate in this area with the Member States - and specifically with Greece in complying with this readmission agreement, so it is considered its attitude and is controlled by this commitment that it has made. Now, on the European agenda for immigration - and I will be brief in order to be able to comment on what we have said and give wider answers - I would like to say that the answers given to the recent European Council are not complete. They also have problematic dimensions. What we need to pursue - and here I have failed to say that we welcome the proposals on what else you can do in this context - is the fact that European policy must move towards a holistic approach to the issue, taking into account the forms of solidarity and partitioning, and at the same time move to a logic - and respect for human rights and security issues. Here, my dear colleague, I would like to tell you that there is this temptation to put forward the issue of security and therefore to follow some policies which, however they may be, will not prove effective and will exacerbate other situations. We believe that this effort must continue from Greece, but from elsewhere, Europe must recognise that this problem is a problem for everyone, that it must have a vision in relation to a phenomenon that is not today, today it will be exacerbated - these are the predictions - but that it is a phenomenon that has been going on for years and will therefore have to face it on the basis of humanitarian values and, of course, of the security of citizens and of course - and I am ending up with this - it must recognise and do not repeat European actions that exacerbate the problems of violence, tension and war, with the consequence that we have these increased migration flows, particularly in countries that are first admission countries, such as our country and other Mediterranean countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u386	Minister, in your reply I have not seen the tension that I think the circumstances need, as far as your will is concerned, to take action towards the Turkish side. I would expect and would like to hear you more decisively about the need to take concrete action on the Ankara side for the incomplete, incomplete implementation of the existing institutional framework, which is also a manifestation of the lack of will to deal with the problem. It's a bit comfortable with the fact that our country is a neighbour. I do not want to create a climate of cold war, but the numbers are ruthless and the actions must be of equivalent effect and intensity. I will say two things about Europeans, Minister. There are ideas and suggestions which you may have to study carefully. I would draw attention to the latest findings of a meeting with this subject of the People's Party in Milan. There are very interesting thoughts and suggestions there. I say to you just one: establishing quotas - I mean hosting refugees, migrants, illegal immigrants - for each Member State - on the basis of objective criteria. That's two of them. The size of the country (related area and population) and the economic situation (Gross National Product). Also, there is a thought of granting a humanitarian entry permit - be careful! - to unaccompanied minors and, of course, cooperation with third countries from which the phenomenon arises. Minister, I am closing with your last political observation. It does not mean ignoring human rights in favour of the right, if you like, or of the good of security. The Mediterranean cannot be a sea of drowning, but at the same time it cannot be a sea of insecurity. I would ask you to bear in mind what I mentioned before, in seeking this operationally practicable balance. Because there is concern among many partners and allies about what this large flow of migrants means to Greece and who they come to - and I am referring to the jihadists fanatics - it is a matter that you should consider, put it politically - I say again - and in the context of the alliance, pressing an ally, which, with its policy - and I am referring to Turkey - creates or can create security problems more widely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u388	As regards the situation in which we are in and the size of the problem, I would say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that today, on the occasion of this whole debate, we have a tragedy in the Mediterranean. In the Mediterranean we have a humanitarian crisis. This has to stop. Therefore, the priority of any measures and the discussions we are having is, if possible, to eliminate this thing and it must be eliminated. The second thing I want to stress, and which is also an intervention from our country, is that the Mediterranean is not just the central Mediterranean. Some of the proposals are influenced by the emphasis actually placed on tragic, mass events, while, on the other hand, numerically, the problem is more pronounced on the part of the Eastern Mediterranean. For example, in the first quarter of 2015, the number of people entering Greece was nineteen thousand four hundred eighteen, compared with eight thousand three hundred and fifty-six for the same period in 2014. Also, one element - the Minister who was answering a previous question, and I said his political significance - was that 80% of the new entrants are people with refugee profiles, etc. And it complements the answers I gave. Why am I saying all this? Because the subject of information, dimensions and profile that it has is very important. And not only for the Greek reality, which you are beginning to say that 'Mrs. Christodoulopoulos' - not to say anything else - but to see the dimensions at a pan-European level. And I can say that it is a battle that we are also fighting at European level to understand the scale of the problem, which perhaps even from the point of view of information - I think it is a matter of seeing the problem face to face - is not accepted by Europeans. Why can't it be accepted? I respond to your first remark in your dilemma. Quota. Where are we? Why did I say the deal has some steps, but it's incomplete, it's in a dynamic one? So we are talking about sharing, in the form of solidarity - you hear - five thousand refugees, and even voluntarily - a drop in the ocean - and the fact that in the name of this participation, as you know, it also gives most of the funds or many of the finances in countries which are strong, because some people have, by analogy, accepted a larger number of them. So the problem and the labelling you are making is very important, as is the aspects of the escort for minors, where a special policy on such categories of illnesses, for minors, for studies, etc. is to be followed. On the issue of Turkey, I would like to say that efforts are being made, using the European framework and with the constant pressure there are positive results - so things show - to abolish the possibility of issuing visas at its borders, from 1-1-2015, for citizens of forty-seven high-risk countries. However, we should note - and that is why I said it is a good opportunity to see it, because it also has aspects of our foreign policy - that Turkish legislation is still differentiated from the acquis on visas and distinguish between Member States of the European Union, such as Cyprus. In other words, it has been found that there is a tendency to strengthen its safety and sticker requirements. Of course, some steps have been taken, after the tenth expert meeting - I can give you some of the commitments that Turkey has made to implement this European acquis - so that, if possible, the problems that are encountered here are indeed limited by Turkey. We will not stop highlighting this problem, knowing that it is a problem that, following the agreements between the European Union and Turkey and the fact that it has been incorporated into all relations between the European Union and Turkey, the pressure that can and must be exercised will be mainly on the part of the European Union. If we want to go to the beginning, the problem is a pan-European problem and it needs to be dealt with in cooperation with the transit countries. Last, I say again, we should all strive to stop the outbreaks of immigration and refugee flows. These are also the focal points of violence and tension, and the European Union is exposed here. Finally, Mr President, because it is a great debate - you know that there is a great deal of criticism in the neighbourhood policy pursued by the European Union and it is at the stage of the review that its interventions have not always helped democracy or development in other countries. We have these results. We'll have to draw that conclusion. We are also making this effort - and we must do it - all together and all the peaceful forces, those who are interested in both security and human rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u389	'Spring', however, you called it Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the fifth, with no. 137/21-4-2015, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on measures to ensure the cleanliness of the school units and the working rights of the cleaners. He is present and will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Anastasios Kourakis. Mr Katsotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. I won't repeat what I said before. I'm guessing it's written in the Minutes. The question was tabled, Mr Minister, in writing, but it has not been answered and that is why it is now coming as timely. It concerns - as the President has said - the security of the cleanliness of school units and of workers, of course, of cleaners' rights. School cleaners are eight and a half thousand. For years they renewed contracts and covered this critical area of the hygiene and cleanliness of school units. And it is well known that the labour regime is a terrible thing. It was a long delay and always compared with the debts. It is well known that permanent staff are lacking. It's still worse today, because a lot of it's retired. On the basis of Article 50(1) of Law 4186/2013, there is no possibility of renewal of the contracts after June 2015. The same article in the second paragraph stipulates that for the teaching year 2015-2016 contracts will be drawn up by the municipalities concerned and in accordance with the existing legislation. The possibility of renewal of contracts is forbidding for municipalities on the basis of these restrictive frameworks governing recruitment. If the Government lets the situation develop without immediate measures, it will give up the cleanliness of the schools to contractors or to a public contractor with dismissal of those clearers who exist to date. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Our position is to renew all workers' contracts and the government, of course, to ensure that this operation is financed and to provide a definitive solution by permanentising cleaners in schools. These are the questions, Minister. And on that, we'd like answers. If you really are thinking of immediate action to resolve this problem, if you are going to get rid of the delayed cleaners and if you are going to be given - indeed - the only solution which is the one that is to permanentize these workers to carry out this work - which is very important - of hygiene in schools so that our children can be in schools to ensure that they are healthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u393	Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague. Indeed, the question of the cleanliness of school buildings is a chronic problem and this is added to the very big problems - almost all school units, except for bright exceptions - relating to their logistics infrastructure, staff recruitment and travel. Indeed, this problem has deteriorated in recent years because of the policies pursued, so that our Government is in a very difficult situation today to deal with these problems. With regard to the issue you have just mentioned, you know that the needs of primary and secondary education are not covered by the cleanliness staff serving in organic posts, the balance through the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation of the well-known INEDIABIM - which is a supervised body of the Ministry of Education - has been designated as a Contracting Party, which can finance the school committees as you say. The point is that we are now in a transitional period where this was and continues to a certain extent for the teaching years 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. As you mentioned, this scheme is now being changed by Law 4186 to the municipalities concerned. This means that since 2015-2016 appropriations have been transferred through the Ministry of Interior to the relevant municipalities, they are entered in the budget of the Ministry of Interior and are allocated in proportion to the municipalities concerned following the reasoned proposal of the Ministry of Interior to the General Accounting Office of the State, which shows the need to recruit staff under contract for the cleaning of school units. What I want to say to you is that the competence, as we have said, is assigned to the municipalities concerned. It would therefore be very difficult, in order to be perfectly honest, to recommend, as a government, that the relevant municipalities recruit this staff in permanent positions. This should be followed by an SAPA process. I am therefore staying in the procurement procedure. What I can say is that it has meaning and a sense of justice is that for all these cleaners, who have acquired a very great experience and have a pre-service, legislation could be provided to mobilise these workers to gain an advantage in the contracts that will be called on by the municipalities concerned. It is something that I see as realistic, fair and on the other hand, that the municipalities are able to go ahead with contracts of staff that they want to hire in the way I have mentioned. On the other points, I shall refer to the next item.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Katsotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u395	Minister, our question has been addressed to you and the Ministry of Interior, because the municipalities are indeed involved in this, and we have tabled this question to the two co-legislative ministers. It is well known to you, Minister, that at this time the law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Public Administration is being discussed with the re-entry of workers who have been made redundant, who are in reserve, etc. And among them, you will also be able to read today that cleaners are going back to the public, an amendment tabled by Members of the SYRIZA even for schools. It seems that you have not been informed, however, that the amendment does not resolve, of course, because it speaks of employment until the end of 2015. But the school year doesn't end the end of 2015, it's also in 2016. We, Minister, have tabled an amendment to the school cleaners. It will be discussed in this draft law by the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration. And because you are co-responsible for school hygiene, I think you should be in your knowledge and exercise your own pressure so that this amendment can solve the issue of school hygiene. We shall table the amendment, but I would also like to say it for the Minutes. ‘Article 50 of Law No 4186/2013 is amended as follows: (i) (c) paragraph 1 of Article 18 of Law No 3870/2010, as replaced, is replaced by the following: ‘The project lease contracts referred to in paragraph 5 of Article 113 of Law No 11892/1990, as amended and applicable, shall be drawn up for the teaching years 2010-2011, 2011-2012, 2012-2013, 2013-2014, 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 in accordance with the arrangements of those provisions. (ii) From the start of the teaching year 2016-2017, the needs of the municipalities for the cleaning of the school units have been covered by the above staff and their contracts have become self-evident in private law indefinitely by the municipalities concerned. Third, for the cost of employment of the staff referred to in the preceding subparagraph, for the teaching year 2015-2016 and thereafter, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior shall be entered in the budget of the Ministry of Interior, which shall be allocated by decision of the Minister. Until the teaching year mentioned above, Article 113(5) of the Treaty shall continue to apply. Regulation (EEC) No 1892/1990, as amended and valid. Finally, in paragraph 2 of Article 2 of the second paragraph of Article 2 of the Treaty. The following subparagraph shall be added as follows: ‘This amount shall be attributed directly to municipalities in which the relevant programme is implemented or through the relevant ATTs to bodies in their capacity to implement it, on the basis of accounting data and supporting documents.’. This amendment, Mr Minister, is tabled in the Minutes and I will give it to you to have it. I believe that it solves the issue for both the school year 2015-2016 and the question of school hygiene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u397	I should like to say to you, Mr President, that I share, to a large extent, the enormous importance of school hygiene in having a permanent staff and I think it is as necessary as the needs of the school units are, and we are also interested in the employment situation. Admittedly, the way in which cleanliness workers are currently working in schools, cleanliness workers, can really be regarded in very negative terms, as well as the abuse, often, of labour legislation. I would also like to share what you are writing in your question that the problem would be a permanentisation or permanent positions, in any case, in the schools that deal with the issue of cleanliness. But you also know that we are in a very difficult economic situation. This is entirely linked to the country's development path and the resources available. On the amendment you are tabling, I cannot answer you at the moment. I can tell you that we will also study it to the extent that it contains elements, which we can adopt, we will do so. With regard to the part of your question about the payment of workers contracted in public schools, I would like to tell you that until now, it has been paid by INEDIDIS to 50% of the total funding of school committees throughout the territory, and that figure accounts for half of the funding from the regular budget for the year 2014-2015, the amount of which is about 21,600,000 for the period up to 1-6-2015. This amount comes from the 2014 budget and the use of INEDIBIM reserves and the payment of the remaining amount from INEDIBIM will be possible after the signature of the relevant Ministerial Decision on the appropriations for the financial year 2015 to INEDIBIM under the relevant codes. If anyone could see what has been paid to date and what the state owes you, I must tell you that to date the payment of funds to the school committees is sufficient for the wages of workers for the cleaning of school units up to January 2015. Nevertheless, we have carried out a sample survey into numerous departments of administration, supervision and support for school committees of the municipalities of the Lekanola and I mention that in the municipalities of Piraeus, Keratini, Drapetsonas, Peristeri, Ilio, Perama, Athenians and others, we have found that the school committees, using resources from the respective municipal reserves, have paid wages up to the month of March. We have no corresponding information from the regions. In any case, I can tell you that they have been included in the budget and that all the obligations on workers in cleanliness in public schools will be repaid and funding and payment will be completed in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u398	Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to make a communication. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty students and students and six educational attendants from the Municipal Schools of Damaria and Malona Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with the sixth question under number 122-20-4-2015 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the supporting documents required for the certification of the tax residence. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Olga Nadia Valvani. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u399	Minister, welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a brief introduction. With the recent circular, which follows two laws of 2013 - I wish to hope that it is a juncture and not at all, I will explain why - and I voted for FEK B 459 at 26-3-2015, where the Greek State in the middle of tax plundering of natural and legal persons in Greece gives details of the procedures for those who wish to transfer their tax seat abroad. I'll explain very quickly. Such a provision, with the exception of those countries which have entered into a double taxation agreement with Greece, will bring great damage - moral, if you like, damage and not only as Mr Vulgarakis said - moral and legal, but a great damage to the Greek State - amidst a huge effort made by the Greek State to raise revenues, allowing vague and unclear procedures and definitions to be applied to anyone who wants to transfer his tax seat to Greece to avoid taxation. What the circular is asking for is: Of course, the tax homes from the competent tax authority of the State in which a tax holder states - very reasonable - the copy of the clearance of the statement of income tax submitted in that State and, thirdly, in the absence of a copy of the relevant statement of taxation. It's a very reasonable thing. But it comes to the next paragraph - and it surprises us all, I was very upset when I saw it - on 18 March and it says: "If it is not possible to produce any of the above documents from the relevant tax authority, then a certificate from any other public, municipal or other recognised authority, proving the strong bond - notice the term - (critical interest centre) of a person with the state is required." That is to say, if anyone does not have the standard figures to prove that he is tax-controller and has tax-based materials in a country outside Greece, with a simple statement he can change his tax residence, and we, if he completes the relevant forms - which we do not need to explain for technical reasons to the Members - to avoid taxation. With this in mind, the Minister asks us to clarify: firstly, what exactly does the term 'critical interest centre' mean to prevent the possible and arbitrary interpretation by the competent tax authorities and smart accountants? And, secondly, how can it be ensured that this provision does not constitute a means of implementing possible tax evasion by stakeholders? The second question is a philosophical question. It is certainly a 'window' tax evasion. In any case, we would like to know the intentions of the Ministry of Finance, whether it is going to withdraw this provision or change it in depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u400	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u401	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would like to say to you that what made you irritate is not before all about POL, but it is unfortunately a matter of the same provisions on tax housing, as they changed in the summer of 2013 by voting on the new Code on income tax for n. 4172/2013. There it is laid down that a natural person is a resident of Greece's tax law if alternatively a number of conditions are met: If he or she has his or her permanent or usual residence, if Greece is his or her usual residence, or - and here is the whole point - if Greece is the centre of his or her vital interests, that is to say if he or she is the centre of his or her personal or economic or social links. I will agree that it is sufficiently unclear that reversed, conditional on being able to cause genuinely serious problems and tax evasion. Whether or not we maintain this definition, we will examine it sufficiently thoroughly in the new tax draft. And my reaction, first of all, is that it is better in such things to be able to speak with as much a pure language as possible. However, that is not something that has been decided at the moment. Until then, for the financial year 2014, they have been formulated by the General Secretariat of Public Revenues with the corresponding POL, which mentioned some forecasts that are deterrent to the more flexible treatment of the concept of tax residence. Thus, even if a taxpayer submits the supporting documents in the relevant forms and in the short term, it is nevertheless considered to be a resident of Greece according to the law. 4172/2013 - for example his family has remained in Greece or he has very close, systematic, financial ties with Greece - his request for a tax credit is rejected. In other words, also for the use of 2014, which we do not currently have the opportunity to change, the submission of supporting documents by the taxpayer does not mean that it is accepted as a resident abroad. It shall be rejected or accepted respectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u402	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, thank you very much for your briefing. I would like to know if you intend to make a relevant circular to all the DUs so that they are informed in the 2014 statements, when they are received, of the interpretations of what we are discussing. This should be clear to accountants, because as many times as I have discussed this provision with adequate professional accountants is a huge window. Imagine a municipal authority in Liechtenstein, the municipality in a cursor, can wash off any Greek taxpayer without any other tax statement, information or income tax statement. I would also like to see the following topic: from the moment the FEK was voted, and by 2015, I would like you to have a team within the DU to give a circular and collect those who want it at the moment - and have the list of names of those who are involved - to declare by this favourable arrangement that they change their residence. Who were they? In which country they declared tax home, and what amounts are we talking about? For me, it's no accident in this country. The "follow the money" we talked about at our youth, when you catch the tip of the thread, you will always find that it is not a shortcut that n. The Court ruled as follows: 4174- that you rightly mentioned - in 2013 coincided with the Lagard list and many other lists. If some of these people are amputated by this paragraph, then we as government have a huge responsibility to amend or abolish it. I am not prepared as Dimitris Kammenos and as Independent Greeks - and I am sure you too, knowing your morality and professional integrity - give the right to avoid legality to anyone, when the Greek taxpayer bleeds. Finally, I would like to thank you for the clarifications and to refer to a phenomenon: in Germany, for example, if one of them is taxed in Greece, but lives more than three months in Germany, Germany is picking him up and says to him 'why did you sit in Germany for 90 days?' Imagine another example in Greece: A very rich shipowner with dozens on and offshore tax seats - well doing - lives in Greece for three hundred days and rejoices in the sun, buds, souves and anything else beautiful this country has, but is not taxed at all in Greece. If we need to discover the wheel, we'll do it, but we don't have to. Tax legislation through in particular the four major audit companies and many other specialists and banks can, within a week, remove anyone's effort to avoid and avoid taxation permanently in Greece. The examples are everywhere, just the laws to cover those who legally want to avoid tax. And I'm closing. It is not short-term in 2013 that these laws mentioned the percentages were passed. We had all the lists in public, and I imagine some people wanted to find out how to change tax residence so that they could be memorized by their tax obligations in Greece, which was bleeding tax under the memoranda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mrs Valvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u405	I will agree with you that it will indeed be an open tax avoidance window if the tax residence is identified on the basis of purely subjective allegations of the person concerned. It is, however, foreseen and there is in POL that after examination of these claims, and after the relevant forms have been completed and the supporting documents have been submitted, so that the examination can be carried out, because it is simply known that "my feeling resides in Greece or abroad and therefore, I cannot count on it", it is clear that the tax administration cannot take decisions on such criteria. The proposal you made to look at who will ultimately use this vital area of interests abroad and not Greece is interesting. I have to tell you, of course, in advance that we cannot publish the relevant list, because there is tax confidentiality. However, it would not harm at all, apart from the initial audit that the tax administration must do to refuse or accept this claim - I say again that it should do so together with the supporting documents and with the completion of the relevant forms - it would be appropriate to carry out a second audit. In other words, then, the tax administration itself will certainly be able to carry out a check when the picture is now specific. I am talking about such a check, which I think is not outside, not at all, from the directions of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue itself. If you want, this can work, making this known today in the debate that we are having between us and deterrently, so that there can be such a use of the call of time of vital interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u407	I want 15 seconds to complete...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Cammene, I didn't give you the floor. I'll give you a minute, not more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u409	I'm sorry, 'cause I didn't hear you. The tragic case of the case is the description that if you do not have a tax declaration or legal tax information registered with the tax authority, for example in Liechtenstein, you can with a certificate from any public, municipal or recognised authority, i.e. any authority recognised in Luxembourg or Liechtenstein, get me a paper that Dimitris Kammenos is currently drinking beers for three months in Luxembourg and needing nothing else. To translate this paper into the consulate doesn't do anything to me. I have to go to this provision and remove it. Any tax authority or municipality does not cover anyone but it covers everyone in hiding their income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u410	We also thank you for the further clarifications you have given so that people understand what this will mean in relation to the tax residence certificates. Subsequent to the fifth under number 116/20-4-2015, a topical question from the second Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Finance, on the abolition of tax provisions for small and medium-sized farmers. The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr Nadia Valvani. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u411	Our question concerns the unfair and robbery tax provisions of the small and medium-sized farms introduced by the previous government and you have also disagreed - I mean the parties of today's government. We are asking you to be lifted immediately, now that you were committed to abolishing taxation of 13% from the first euro and introducing duty-free 12 000, such as the abolition of HPAI in the field, in the stan­dard and more generally in the tools of agricultural activity - these are your words, I mean the government, not your own - as well as the end of the trade, because it is not a productive, agricultural activity the end of a trade. In fact, the Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction acknowledges that it is a robbery this agricultural tax. He was committed to tabling an amendment to the bill for the hundred doses. But he didn't keep it. The farm is of the opinion that it has also been mocked by the previous New Democracy government, which rejected as a government amendment to tax on subsidies - it has not done so - as much by the current government, because it has done what it had denounced in the past. So, 13% of the first euro, and the pre-taxation of 55%, the rigour of subsidies and compensation, the taxation based on subordination, even if there is no income, the taxation of the land used by farmers is unfairly tax-free, expropriating measures, which lead to thousands of small and medium-sized households having a heavy 'hard' to pay. In fact, these are their tools of extermination to strengthen the big ones and become larger, are the objectives of the European Union, the new CAP and are served. What are we asking you for? The request made by farmers in the major mobilisations for this unfair tax rate, namely a tax on EUR 20,000 and EUR 5 000 for every child, the abolition of books on farmers who have a turnover of up to EUR 40,000, and the abolition of the 55% advance and the clarification that aid and compensation will not be taxed, as has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u413	Mrs Manolakou, ladies and gentlemen, we are in agreement with you that the tax provisions concerning farmers, as they apply for the financial year 2014 for the first time and thankfully and for the last time we say, according to the forecasts of the new Income Tax Code of 4172 that was voted on in the summer of 2013, which is for the first time and for the last time - I say again - the incomes of 2014 are indeed bankrupt. In fact, when we talk about the village and agricultural production and indeed about the current conditions, what else could be to tax 13% of the first euro, to act as a presumption of living if the crop is destroyed and there is no revenue and only damage, to have the trade fee, to have an advance payment equivalent to the rest of society, i.e. 55%, which is exterminating anyway, but in the village now, things are going out of every limit and, of course, to tax subsidies and allowances? The main problem we have, if we want to do something about all of this, is that, as you know very well, two tax bills cannot be passed in the same year. Because here, what you have mentioned and which I have described, does not concern certain extremes like these four five, which we have already announced their abolition. It's the main core. They are the basic way of taxing farmers retroactively for the incomes of 2014 and this way of taxing farmers is all unacceptable and a radical change is needed. This will be done in the next bill and, above all, in the main bill - but not only in this, but also in the bill on the new property tax - that is, the new tax bill on income acquired in 2015. This bill will, as we have said, be given in public consultation before it is submitted to the House, and there will be the possibility of real dialogue with the institutions and representatives of the rural world and of correcting things before we reach its statement in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u414	Mrs. Valvanie, please be brief. You have the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u415	Finally, with regard to the two questions you raised at the end of your time question, the first issue, on the duty-free limit and the work limit for which books will not be needed, will we discuss them in full in the new tax draft. However, I can tell you that your proposals for EUR 20,000 tax free and EUR 5 000 additional for every child and for the abolition of books for farmers with a turnover of up to EUR 40,000 belong to the JRC's programme and not to the SYRIZA programme. We will, as you can see, implement the proposals and commitments of our programme from the financial year 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u416	Ms. Valvanie, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u417	I conclude by saying that the abolition of the trade fee and the taxation of agricultural allowances and subsidies will be abolished by the trade fee for the incomes of 2015. For the taxation of subsidies and allowances, I must tell you that he has tortured us, together with the Minister for Rural Development, thoroughly questioned whether we could do this now. Because there really is nothing more unacceptable than taking a compensation for natural disasters and taxing you. And, of course, the same applies to European subsidies. So we have examined whether we could do it now or necessarily wait for the second semester, which will be reformed in total. I can inform you - and with you and this House - that we have finally come to the conclusion that we will be able to move forward immediately and we believe that we will face any problems that will arise retrospectively from the incomes of 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u418	Ms. Manolakou, please place strictly for three minutes. Madam Minister, you will answer for a minute because you have done a great deal of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u419	I hold that the compensation and the payments will not be taxed. But you need to clear up a circular, because accountants have a problem. Furthermore, in the tax declaration form the codes in force in previous years for allowances and subsidies do not exist. Therefore, at least, farmers and accountants must be informed in a direct way. It's an emergency. Secondly, living evidence is an accountable income, it is not real. That's why it's wild. We're talking about poor people. At least accept a discount of EUR 2,500, as several rural club federations are asking for, because such a promise was given and was not implemented. As far as 55% of the tax advance is concerned, this is an internal loan from poor people. And I ask you honestly and think about it: If year after year, with the new tax law you're going to pass, it's 12,000 euros tax-free - and you know too many farmers have underneath it - will you return the taxes that you have received from them? Do you know what it is to give today in advance? As far as the proposal for the EUR 20,000 tax-free and EUR 5 000 for every child is concerned, it is not a proposal from the Communist Party of Greece. It was the request of the mobilisations of the farm blocks, the older ones that have become over the past twenty years. The JRC's proposal relieves the farm of its suffering, but I cannot now develop it. You see the injustice, Minister. You see that it is unacceptable, that it is tax-free, but you now refuse to correct it immediately. Why? Because it's about poor farmland. But, when you want to make changes here and now, you are quickly doing them by means of legislative acts. Fines are deleted for people who have committed serious violations with false invoices, with violation of the Customs Code. Yes, you're erasing them. But for the farm, no. The result is, do you know what it will be? Small and medium-sized poor farmers will not be able to pay the unfavourable taxes, because tax is tax-free, the debts will be hunted for them a lifetime, threatening their few assets, home and field, which will be a candidate for auctioning. Therefore, a tool is the fiscal instrument to destroy and eliminate small and medium-sized farms. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As long as you implement European Community memorandum policies, such anti-grassroot policies will be implemented. We say that it must not just be the last, but not even the first, because they are taxed fiercely poor people for a debt that the people are not responsible for, but are called upon to "bleed" to pay for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u421	Also, the farm must draw its conclusions. Parts of the Euro-mono street such policies will be implemented and at their expense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u422	Ms. Valvanie, you've got a minute stricter than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u423	Mrs Manolakou, as we will have the opportunity to discuss Wednesday the act of legislation to save the Sugar plant and regulate the hundreds of doses, fines or violations of the Customs Code, we have not eradicated or eradicated or have any intention. I would also like to say to you that while I agree with one of the proposals you are making in relation to the robbery of the existing forecasts and being implemented for 2014, precisely because that is the case, it is clear that not all of them can change, because they are essentially the whole, the essence of the farmers' taxation. It would require a separate draft law on the taxation of farmers retrospectively for 2014. We will see to it that we take these measures in 2015. And for the abolition of the tax on subsidies and agricultural allowances, there is not enough to do with a POL, that is to say, an interpretative regulation. We need legislation. That is why we will be tabling an amendment in the next few days. When necessary, there is a possibility - I believe - through the cooperation of all those who recognise that there is a need to resolve some issues to find solutions, even in only five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mrs. Valabani. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three educational attendances from the 3rd Ialis Rhodes Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with our second question under number 140/21-4-2015. Second-cycle question by the Member of Parliament, Mr.Kissos Kikilias, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on public order and civil protection. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Panousis. Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u425	Madam President, I would first like to address you for ten seconds. And of course the protest and complaint are not impersonated, but I've been here since 17.55, and so has the Minister. I ask my question two and a half hours later. If you ask the Minister if there are any loose ends at the Ministry, he will surely tell you and answer you. If this comes from the past and it is a malfunction of Parliament, we should change it. When scientific associates and offices call in the Bureau, it is not wrong to inform the Bureau that the question will be discussed lately. Perhaps man in these two and a half hours could do many things. I can assure you that I could. It's a request. Please. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u426	Mr. Kikilia, I'll carry it. The House, I believe, is being watched by the other Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u427	It's not kept by anyone a two-minute or a three-minute. Mostly by the ministers, but also by colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Kikilia, let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u429	We should get to the point, very gladly. In a minute, not two, I'll finish. But the reality remains. If we can't define ourselves in here, how do we expect to run the state? Minister, I submitted my question a month ago. You know that. It is about public security, civil security, property and so on. Of course, he has made sure that your colleague, the Minister for Justice, has asked her to question her in the biennial manner, when a procedural system, which was very strict for the hoodmen, changed it overnight and now we are going to bathe their works and their reasons all the time. Let me remind you more specifically: they burn cars, i.e. citizens' property. Who's gonna pay? Unknown. They're beheading the statue of Cybeli. Vandalize the statue of Kostis Palamas, forming the mark of anarchy. They paint the bust of Gregorios Xenopoulos outside the Spiritual Center of Athens. They vandalize the 11th-century Capinicarea, our cultural heritage. Who's gonna restore all this? They go into law school and the NSA. They're burning the books in law school to warm them up. The EMCDDA's issues are very well known. You've made announcements. The unsub caused infrastructure damage, stolen electronic equipment, etc. They post videos, provoking state and society with their "achieves" after spraying police officers, who have to watch defensively and do not respond to the challenges. You as a former dean, Minister, had urged other leaders to organize students so that other groups of students would be expelled from the occupations. But they weren't students. You realize that if they had taken your advice what would have happened. And, anyway, in relation to all these incidents, I would like you to explain to me the policy you are planning and the new course of the Ministry of Public Order in what has to do with the security of the country. Is this about police predicament, so that people can get an example? With the vandalism of the Unknown Soldier, Minister? With the reception centres, which you have said and said you will close. You shut it down and reopen it? Who will pay them later in Europe? Does it include social peace, which the government speaks about, and the conditions of social cohesion and solidarity your own doctrine? In the end, please tell me, Minister, after all we have seen and heard, who finally decides at the Ministry of Public Order and Citizen Protection?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u430	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u431	Mr Colleague, I would like to say that I am unhappy about what I see around me as a Greek, as an educator and as a parent. Because I'm looking to find the logic of the irrationality, what happens in the educational system, the occupations, within society, 15-year-old girls flying molotovs, pots, etc. What do they want to say? The quantitative data you know. I have them here, you can see them too. I submitted them to the previous time-consuming question a week ago. You have no reason to insist on these figures and comparisons. We are interested in the quality characteristics of the phenomenon. What's the political message? Who do all these people turn against? Why now? Why is that so? Where are they targeting? They often blame me - not you - that I am of theory and not of the act. I'll tell you something. Theory without action what does it mean? It means intellectuals who have convenient and rigid myths or ideologies or ideologies about who the enemy of the country is. Act without theory what does it mean? It means an activism repressive, which in the short term solves a matter, a symptom, but it can't see the cause. So I'm in favour of the act based on theory. And the theory of old, zero tolerance was based on broken windows, a whole concept of how small and medium-sized crime is managed. And the theory of social damage is founded on mild management. Why? You told me about students, academics, etc. But it can't be any different. Participating anti-crime policy requires that all society stand before the crime. The police can't stand alone in front of the crime. And I don't mean the common crime. I'm talking about these phenomena that have political, ideological characteristics and so forth. So we need awareness, mobilisation, we want scientists, institutions, universities, family, police, all of them together to create a new model of crime management and treatment. Security you know is an umbrella concept. It includes many freedoms and rights, not just one. So we need to see how we wake up this society. We in the Ministry oppose the example of zero tolerance. He hasn't solved anything in America either. That's not a scientific thing about Julian. "cleaned the streets a bit, nothing else did. But we are also against democratic abstention. Do not believe that we have given democracy - because the police are an institution of democracy - that we have given it to others to do control over the square, the school, the university. None of this is happening. We must therefore take risk weights together, both academics and prosecutors and we, when we are in the face of a phenomenon. Because those who produce this phenomenon are, in fact, enemies of democracy, they are enemies of all of us. They are not enemies of the government, and that is what we must look mainly at.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u433	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have no reason to question your academic background and your theoretical knowledge of public order and civil protection. Here, however, there is a malfunction, which is very serious and has implications for the daily lives of the citizens of Athens, the capital, and all of the country. This is consistent with the security of the country and the well-being of our fellow citizens. And I explain: Among you can't agree on what the doctrine of the Greek Police will ultimately be about what it has to do with order and security. Your colleague, Mrs. Undersecretary of Immigration, operates papers deciding that detention centres are closed. She refuses to do it and you're decapitating a worthy general. Border guards complain that they have the requirement to enter and go where they want and where they want, with the known results. She continues to say that they should be melted in the Syntagma Square and, if not, sent to the European squares. The Government spokesman is coming out and takes her back within five minutes, with a good repetition, because we are in danger of being thrown out of Schengen. Your political leader, Mr Voutsis, has another view of what is going on in the universities, and so does Mr Manolis Glezos. They disapprove you. They're sending your ministry to the Justice Department, taking it back in a week. Mr. Paradoxopoulos, who approved you, deplores you for your positions on the university. Meanwhile, Mr. Skourletis intervenes and resents you for how the police functioned in Skouria. SYRIZA's youth, Mr Diamandopoulos, a little bit - not to use heavy expressions - speaks of how your ministry is run. I beg your pardon very much: If we have the problem of the economy and how the country will walk back on a path of growth and prosperity for the citizens, I have stressed from the outset that we do not have the luxury of opening up a second major wound to what has to do with the security of the country. Because the security of the country and prosperity are in a straight line with investment and with the possibility of prospering the country's tourism. Last year we had twenty or twenty-five million tourists. This year, what about our islands? How will this work? What image do you think we're making out? A huge issue was raised with the release of terrorists with the photographic bill of your colleague. It raises serious doubts about how we operate with our allies and in society itself how he rewarded him five times the revolt and murdered five fellow humans. I say again to you, I believe that you are the Minister of Public Order and Citizen Protection, and you must take a position and decide that you will either implement your policy or that you will not act only with posts on the headlines, Minister, in what has to do with your beliefs towards the rest of the government, but you will assume your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u434	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to complete your second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u435	In the police station, Mr. MEP, we are going to the citizen with mobile units, as you have seen: the Citizen's Time. Thursday, the Department will open up to see the civilians, the Neighborhood Police officer. Let's go to the citizen, give us a hand in reconciliation. At the same time, we have strategic plans, a programme agreement with the Region of Attica - Area of Mari - with the West Attica and at the same time we have put new units across the border, which will try to protect our borders. The question of immigration policy is an issue that concerns Mrs Christodoulopoulos, but I will not deny you that I see problems of national security through my role, problems of social cohesion and of course problems, of a European dimension, a dispersal. The dispersion must also take place in Greece, but it must also be done in Europe. As regards asylum, my own firm view has been that asylum is an academic concept, it has nothing to do with social asylum or criminal immunity. My view on what academic asylum is and how it should be protected is therefore stable. However, on the issue - because I said it yesterday - of the well-known provision passed by the Greek Parliament - and I have no reason to go against it - I said it - because I believe it and why it was done all over the world - that the recipient should at least apologise to his victims. I will not judge his action. My opinion on this is well known, but at least that's the way it should be. That's how Italy did it, and that's what happened elsewhere. My problem is not what you say, that there is a disagreement between the Prime Minister, Mr. Voutsi, to me and everything else. There is a period of seventy days, during which the government and that ministry are trying to find a step-by-step, to redefinite their strategy, objectives and what everyone means as a new police. But what I would like to note - why are we going to meet in private, Minister, and very soon, because I am interested in your experience - is this: what is finally a police force? What do we think the police are? Is she a surrogate mother? Is it a parentheses? Does it replace society, schools, parents? So the police are the institution of democratic legitimacy? If ever possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u436	Let's meet with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u437	That's why I keep saying the police won't solve social problems. Politics and society must solve them. The police will obviously arrest the illegal man. But who gives birth to lawlessness and how lawlessness works within the system is not the job of the police. So we need to make demarcations and put in new roles. I look forward to having everyone's support at certain points of security and democratic sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u438	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 127/20-4-2015, is the top-level question of the first Piraeus II cycle of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Authority (PA), will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The fourth question under number 129/21-4-2015, first question by the MP Drama of "Potamios" Mr Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the data and data relating to the total amount of loans to enterprises and households, the amount of red loans and the amount of guaranteed loans from the Greek State, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The seventh question, with number 130/21-4-2015, is the first question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Economic Affairs, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the reduction of the cost of crossing the bridge "Harilaos Trikoupis" in Western Greece, will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's obstruction and deleted. Also, the first question under number 132/21-4-2015 of the Second Cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. Ilias Kamaterou to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the operation of the Municipal Radio Station Kos (DIRASK), will not be discussed after consultation of the MEP with the relevant Minister and deleted. Finally, the first question by No. 202/24-2-2015 of the Member of the Ilias Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the construction of the western part of the "Olympia Road", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-27-S1-commons.u439	With the consent of the House at 20.47 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, April 28, 2015 at 9 a.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
