ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 29 May 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Evangelos Diamantopoulou, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, asked the question by MP Kastorias of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Diamantopoulou, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the disruption of the ecological equilibrium of Lake Orestiad (Castoria) from the existence and reproduction of fur animals. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of the quartz protection network in rural areas of the Kavala Prefecture. 3. The 231-18-5-2015 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the Potamios Mr Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the restoration of injustice for the owners of photovoltaic roofs. 4. The question by No 243/19-5-2015 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on measures to be taken on bluetongue in the country's livestock. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The current question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay of the meeting of the Central Board for Environmental Authorisation (CSDP) to approve environmental conditions of certain projects and activities. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 244/19-5-2015 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the payroll of OPEKEPE officials. 3. The 206/12-5-2015 topical question by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay in the payments to the cooperatives of the loggers of the Lower Neuroscope of the Prefecture of Drama from the Green Fund. 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning recourse to the justice of television stations to the decisions of the Minister of State on the basis of which they were charged with retroactive frequency charges. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 1402/1-4-2015 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the means of protecting forests and forest land and the delay in the suspension of forest maps. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP II, Mr Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the commitments made by the Government on environmental and energy issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Tsirkas, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u2	Good morning. Ms Anna Vaguena SYRIZA submitted a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on a document by the Mayor of Tyrnavos of Larissa, calling for an extension of the deadline for the submission of declarations of frost damage which affected the municipality's areas on 21-03-2015. Anelles MEP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on a proposal made by a citizen for an amendment on the regulation of the work of civil servants on the specialisation of translators - interpreters. Antel MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, making a request - by a citizen for the organisation of primary agri-food production. SYRIZA MP Andreas Michaelides has submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that "the National Transport Company ERM HI" calls for a solution to the problem of the placement and final authorisation of transport companies in Chios. Antel MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, according to which citizen raises the question of whether the liquidity crisis is the cause of not making progress on roads. The MP of the ANELs Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, according to which a citizen protests against formerly insured persons in "SPAS" and the lack of support from the state. The MP of SYRIZA Mr Alexandros Mikopoulou filed a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that Mayor Almyros is calling for the need to strengthen the municipality with staff in order to meet its immediate operational needs. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos MP of the New Democracy filed a petition to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that ELGA Larissa's officials are denounced extensive damage to crops in the area of the Municipality of Tirnavos and applicants for inclusion in the ELGA process. Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Georgios Marinos and Ioannis Giokas MPs of the KKE filed a petition to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights that Mayor Karystos, Municipal Counsellors, Lawyers and Entities of the Municipality of Karystos Evvoia, applicants not to abolish the Transitional Chamber of Chalkida in Karystos. Georgios Arvanitidis PASOK Member has submitted a report to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction that the Panhellenic Federation of Police Officers of Thessaloniki refers to the difficulties of interpreting the law on child rearing. Andreas Michaelides, a member of the SYRIZA, submitted a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, according to which the Association of Parents and Children with Dyslexia and Mathematical Difficulties in Chios asks, by letter, for the establishment of an examination centre in Chios corresponding to what works for GELs. Mr. Nikos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, submitted a report to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, according to which a retired bank is tabling proposals to increase the State's revenues. Vassilis Kegeroglou, MP of PASOK, reported to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the regional executives of the Centres for Lifelong Learning of Greece, by letter, are applicants for the extension of the workers' contract, while expressing their concern for the future of Lifelong Learning. Nikos Nikolopoulos, MP of the ANELs, has submitted a report to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which a university doctor and president of Greek - international non-governmental organisation, proposes and suggests his views on disciplinary issues that raised the recent bill on the democratisation of the public administration, etc. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, has reported to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion that the Larissa polytecs present proposals on the issue of the appointments of multi-purpose guardian to post of secondary education. Nikos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, has reported to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights that the President of the Ilia Chamber of Deputies is requesting rationalisation of the costs of administrative appeals. Nikos Nikolopoulos, MP of the ANELs, has lodged a petition to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, according to which the organ of Orthodox Christian unions and civil associations objects to legislation on the Citizen's Card. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, has reported to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, which calls for the restoration of the undetermined teachers of the 2008 SAR, given the right to a portion of the latter by a decision of the Council of State. Also, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, reported to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the suggestion of the Citizen's Counselor to the Municipality of Kalamata to avoid the confiscated relocation of gypsies to the Birbita region. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, submitted a report by the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, and to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which the website epirusgate in a report expresses concern about a negative impact on the development of the environmental park in Pambotida from interventions in the project of the city of Ioannina. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, reported to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the Association of School Buildings of the Municipality of Athens calls for the same treatment as local police officers. Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, has reported to the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Finance that a citizen proposes a change in the existing law on the administrative development of the uniforms. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, MP of the ANELs, reported to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, to the Minister of Finance and to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on a communication from the Board of Directors of the EEAS Patras, calling for the abolition of existing memorandum instruments against workers. Parliamentarian Georgios Stylos of New Democracy filed a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that residents of the municipal district of Gribovos, the Municipality of Artaion, are claiming to change the designation of the area from "field" to "mountain". Finally, Georgios Stylos, Member of the New Democracy, reported to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which residents of the administrative districts of Psathopio Aparto and Mytika of the Municipality of Artaios present a memorandum on the management of surplus water that ends in their area by the relevant bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. Before entering the debate on the current questions, I would like to make it clear to the House that from the southern theory we are attending our meeting of fifty students under the parliamentary law of the School of Law at the University of Athens. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, the eighth will be discussed under number 106/20-4-2015, a topical question by the MP Drama of Potamios Mr. Kyriakos Karakides to the Minister of National Defence, on reports from the manufacturer of LOCKHEED MARTIN, on the reconstruction of the obsolete P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals of ‘AIRBUS’. The Minister will answer Mr. Panos Kammenos. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u5	Minister, I insisted on discussing my topical question, despite the five postponements you have asked. Finally, it's debated the sixth time. I did not withdraw it because I believe that I will affect your patriotic sensitivity, at least if you do not change your mind, rethink the matter. I asked a question on 7 April. I put a question on April 20th. And again I asked a question on May 18th. I insisted, therefore, that, first of all, you should also be concerned about the reactions that exist from within the codecision procedure, i.e. from government officials. I mention Mr Philly, where he says in particular: 'There is a more general issue at a time when the social and economic crisis requires that we measure the last cents and seek to find EUR 200 for tackling extreme poverty'. Mr Flamouraris said: "My priority may not have been the agreement on seaplanes." There are statements by Mr Chrysanogonos. The Bureau of the Parliament's Budget says: 'It is unclear where the defence supplies are to be financed'. Your former Member and current member of the Congress, Ms. Makary, says that when the Minister was in the opposition, he had stated on the same subject that these are juicy and suddenly the jungle becomes a priority of the government and that the world is hungry and we are buying airplanes. In my question, therefore, the first time I had asked why - and it was not answered - it was, if it were, for roaming by the CSCE. A supply, which will last seven and a half years, cannot be followed by an urgent procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, we have been waiting a long time here and I and the Minister. It's a big thing. I call for your tolerance, because there can also be a little dialogue. Why, then, has this procedure been followed and the normal procedure has not been followed by a normal meeting, or why did it not enter into a competitive procedure and a transnational procedure has been followed - indeed at this time of time? I say this because you know better than I do, you are decades in Parliament and you are one of those who keep talking about the previous conflict and about the credibility of the political system, which, not only has been hurt but has been devastated. When the current Minister of Government, Mr Nicholas, speaks remarkably of everything that has been done with the equipment, we should be more careful. Here too, I would like to ask a few questions as part of my prototype. As I said before, why didn't an international competition take place, since it's not an emergency? Why have no cheaper ways been chosen and no part of the European External Borders Fund has been sought? Because here and in your reply to me, you say that we are covering the space more widely and not just for the defence needs of the country. Also, since this is an EEZ surveillance - in fact in your reply to me you mention Cyprus - why has there not been a common one - or, if it has been, you will tell us - to deal with this, since, from what we see, Cyprus is going unmanned and we are going with manned ones, and even when this is done with planes whose age may exceed by more than 50 years? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member repetitions the doorbell.]] I would therefore like to mention the topical questions and get the first answer. Did the specific document from the company 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', which I referred to in the current question, come to the attention of those who took part in the meeting or the rotation - whether it was made by rotation - a decision and signed this decision? So did they take this as a criterion? Secondly, was there really a corresponding offer from ‘AIRBUS’? What if so, with what features? Because there's a lot to be said. You say that the cost of 'AIRBUS' is huge, while what is published is different. The subject didn't come to the House. For me, but also for all my fellow Members, discussing such a matter is important. So, however, too many suspicions are being created.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Colleague, there's a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, this issue has been answered in writing thirty-six times. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence - from which you were absent, Mr Colleague - was convened on 19 April and for four and a half hours the committee was informed of this issue by the leadership of the Navy and by the political leadership. There was a timely question here from Mr. Kefaliannis and I came and answered. You were gone then. I have also called on all colleagues who have not come and refused to come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, to be informed by the Navy and to receive the written information he has given on this matter. You still didn't come. And you wanted to bring the case here. I'm glad you finally said what you're bringing her for. You have written the word 'AIRBUS' three times in your question, and finally from what I understand, the issue of 'AIRBUS' is what we are concerned with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u10	Are you talking to me, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u11	So I'll answer you. First of all, there is no question of the CYPRUs and of not discussing this particular proposal. This proposal is a proposal from the Navy. It's not a political decision. And you should know that at least in this government, the rulers and the ministers are not deciding, depending on whom they have a friend to a representative of the armed systems, but according to which staff they request and what to protect the country's defence. The Navy, he suggested it to both the previous government and the previous government. Two CSCEs have been held in the past with other ministers, with other prime ministers and unanimously accepted the proposal of the Hellenic Navy. And, of course, we, as a government, brought this issue to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - without any obligation to bring it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the decision had been taken - we passed the two procedures of the Heads of State or Government - because I wanted to see whether there is an operational need - and in all the institutions it was decided unanimously without any objection to moving forward with this programme. Let's see what this program means, so people can understand. At this moment Turkey, having aircraft of maritime cooperation, does every day - every day! - overcrowdings in the Aegean over the Greek islands and on the axes of the eastern Aegean where it was going to date - that is, reaches the central Aegean - because it puts a naval flag on its planes by saying that in the absence of aircraft for maritime cooperation in Greece, Turkey will meet these needs for NATO. So he sometimes puts the NATO flag and sometimes lowers it and the violations of maritime cooperation aircraft have reached three to four a day! The day before yesterday, two aircraft from Lemnos were lifted. They intercepted it. Keep going. Couples picked up from Skyros. He's intercepted. Keep going. He moved south of Karpathos and reached Kastelorizo. Other aircraft were lifted from Crete. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] If we want to talk about maritime cooperation vessels, we need to see what the existing ones are. So the existing ones are two: the 'Papa Three' which we already have and which includes the training of staff, the spare parts that cover for many years aircraft, the follow on support, specialized engineers and certified pilots. And this whole package was hypnotized in Elefsina. On the other hand - because this is the whole story - there is 'AIRBUS'. So 'AIRBUS' is a European company, as you say. So I will tell you that 'AIRBUS' made a letter on 25 October 2010 and proposed the invitation of five aircraft at the cost of forming 42.5 million per aircraft and surface surveillance and for issuing with corresponding P-3B capabilities it proposed 73.5 million per aircraft or 467,5 million at a delivery time of nineteen to thirty-six months and completing the programme after fifty-two months. These prices were exclusively related to the challenge of the aircraft and did not include any new infrastructure or maintenance equipment, nor to the provision of spare parts, nor to the initial training of pilots and engineers, the cost of which is estimated by the Navy to be significantly higher than the promotional amount of aircraft. Let's go for two. Let's go to $1 billion! Because ‘AIRBUS’ publishes both Greece and abroad, it does not mean that we should follow the wish of ‘AIRBUS’. As far as the subject of the contract is concerned, the direct award would indeed be modest. This is a transnational agreement. There are no discriminations in the transnational agreement. And because you repeat 'European', 'European' and 'European', I say to you that almost all the European conventions currently in existence in the Directorate-General for Equipment from behind are undercover. The company, the ‘RHEINMETALL’, has been convicted in Germany. Greek politicians took 62 million mice to ask questions to sign these cases with a competition. There are no commissions in the transnational agreement, there are no misery. I will tell you about NH90, because AIRBUS actually pays these publications, because we stopped receiving NH90. Do you know why we don't pick it up? Apart from the fact that from twelve it throws one - new ones! - there is no bank guarantee letter in the contract. No pre-contractual audit by the Court of Auditors has been carried out. The whole contract is illegal. So - 'AIRBUS' along with the NH90 maker - to escape, they have found the opportunity to hit a transnational agreement. That's wrong. So, ladies and gentlemen, don't get carried away from these kinds of publications and come on, if you want, see how the process of the transnational agreement is going and what is behind them in AIRBUS, who, through their publications, are trying to get away from Mrs Ryuku's "slap" another convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a request here. We have many topical questions, and in plenary we also have legislative work. So please be very careful about the time. Mr. Colleague, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all you refer to individuals or cases where they may have been mistreated or involved in them, but we do not hear names. At least I am a member of Parliament for four months, and I have nothing to do with that and with my question, I have no reason to support anyone's interests. You made reports of us missing. Obviously, you meant that the river was called somewhere? Because I wasn't summoned anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u14	Are you a member of the Committee on Foreign and Defence?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u15	No, it's not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u16	Then what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u17	I'm saying it because you're referring to me. I'm here to ask. You told me, you made a report about Mr. Kefaliannis. You've done it badly, because Mr. Kefaliannis' timely question has 171 number and mine 106. You chose to answer Mr. Kefaliannis. I was present in the answer you gave and the reports were what the conflict did before - and not only - but mainly there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u18	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u19	I wasn't gone. I was here because I was interested in this. And I randomly saw the agenda and I was here. Well, you say it was a Navy decision and I accept it. I ask in the answer you gave me with eleven points here that you have taken into consideration, the eleventh is the 15/3/2015 number one decision of the CSCE, which you have taken for this here. There was nothing to do with it, nothing to do with it. And it has ten other points you mentioned before the previous conflict. And I'm asking like a civilian. Why didn't you vote for this commission in July, since you thought it was junk? You have to answer that. You didn't vote for it, not me. You said that 'they are juicy and I do not vote for them'. And here we are now told that there was a collective decision. Of course, you refer to the collective decisions and I recognize them and I see them here. You say that the transnational agreements do not have any masses. Is there only one of these midget contests? So, if there's a competition, it's gonna be a miserable? I come and say that the transnational agreement has no mitigating effect. Do you know what you answered Mr. Kefaliannis? That this fee will be at least 20% to 30% discount. So you answered here. In fact, the sum was not 499 million, but it would have 20% to 30%. And of that, you said, the 150 million will go to EAV and the 200 million will go to LOCKHEED MARTIN, which will make the supply of spare parts and all of them. And I come and say. Mr. Nikoloudis will come out and say that 4% is the supply of such contracts. If the cost is finally $499 million - because in what you gave me in response you say in particular 'acceptance and approval, modification of sub-programme terms, seven and a half years, and $499.8 million', you answer it to me - how will you get a 20% discount with 30%, which I hope? If you don't get here 20% to 30% discount, will it be assumed that you've got them miserable? Such answers cannot be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u21	First of all, I have never said the word'save' at any meeting. If you get a transcription of Mrs. Makrere now and then of the Independent Greeks, SYRIZA, come to the Potami, ask that word when she said it. Well, I've never used that word. The minutes of the Arms Committee are here. You can well consult them and see them. Secondly, with regard to the word discount. In this case, you are probably confused with the construction companies and the companies of the great-workers in Greece. There is no discount in the sense of the contractor giving a discount for the project. We are actually talking about the costs that the company has proposed to the US state by putting the highest price and saying that this price we give you is higher.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u22	I read the record.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u23	The record? So if you read the practice, you'll see it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u24	You're asking me a question you're answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u25	Mr Colleague, we are not having a dialogue at this stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u26	The word 'budget' relates to the cost, which the American Government will effectively control the US company, in order to respond to Greece in the transnational agreement how much it cost. As far as ODA is concerned, 150 million in ODA are now coming in. It's starting now. The planes went in. The first plane will arrive at the EAA. And it's going to start to work. To work with 150 million, means seven years of work for the Greek Air Industry. And you want to tell me to shut it down? 'AIRBUS' would very much like to close it. Do you know why? Because if EAW closes, all the operations that EAW has undertaken for both ‘TASSO’ and ‘LOCKHEED MARTIN’, for fire-fighting aeroplanes and for other air means taken from the port, the Super Puma, and so on, the European aviation industries will take them first with ‘AIRBUS’. Well, I do not think we should swallow the excuse of 'AIRBUS' and become the representatives of 'AIRBUS' in this Chamber. I know that's not your purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, and after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Hall "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty students and students and two teachers from the 21st Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. Welcome, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, it follows the fifth under No 248/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health about the problems at the General Hospital of Ierapetra of Crete. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the health situation is at a dramatic borderline. Our interventions, whether in the form of questions or of time, have a substantial content and why, at the moment, societies are suffering from the conditions which prevail. And because we are talking about this hospital in Ierapetra - you know very well, because you are from Crete, as I am from the area between Ierapetra and Sitia and - we both know very well what the situation prevails there. In fact, they are on the verge of big racing movements both the workers and the patients, the residents of the region. And this as a result of an ongoing deterioration in operational structures with shortages of material support for the necessary personnel. I'm telling you this because Ierapetra is a burdened area. Based on the 2011 census, it has twenty-eight thousand inhabitants. You add ten thousand economic immigrants, as well as too many nationals, who come from different regions of the country to work in greenhouses, which account for 25% of our country as a whole. It has fishing, it has tourism that increases 100% during the summer season. And you know very well that it is the island of Gold that also increases the participation of tourists. It is therefore a burdensome area of work, environmentally, and workers in greenhouses are exposed. Consequently, they have the need for this hospital with fully manned personnel, materials, all those conditions required, so that it can provide health services. The hospital image at the moment is as follows: The Pathological Clinic remains closed. The radiological and microbiological laboratory have serious deficiencies in paramedical personnel. They stay closed at night and seriously affect the operation of the health center, which is housed and in the hospital. Consequently, all the service capacity of these clinics has collapsed. In 2012, the Women's Clinic closed because of the retirement of the two nurses of gynecologists. The Orthopaedic Clinic, although it has three orthopedics and a skilled, very good, cannot serve a single fracture due to a lack of materials. There is a promise from the commander of the Ministry of Crete that he will give 45,000 euros. The EUR 45,000 has so far not given it. He has promised in the course that he will give the materials, but not even the materials he has given so far. Mr President, may I also refer to the EKAV, which is also very important, because the coastline in which the Ierapetra Hospital is intervening is a hundred kilometres. EMCDDA staff - be careful - can only cover one incident. It cannot cover two incidents at the same time, although there is a second ambulance available, because there is no staff. The EMCDDA is forced to cover 100 thousand miles per year. It covers Sitia, can also make eight stays in Agios Nikolaos, at least once daily in hospitals of Heraklion and sometimes monthly and towards Rethymnon. In other words, the situation is quite dramatic. Of course, the most important reason in relation to the precarious state of EKAV is the lack of doctors and especially the pathologists of Ierapetra, who are, of course, forced by an incident to carry it either to Agios Nikolaos or to Heraklion and sometimes to Chania.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Comrade, in your dentext, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, in this situation, we ask you this, Minister, what measures will you take - be careful, because you have announced a lot so far - so that immediately: The General Hospital of Ierapetra should be funded and staffed with the necessary permanent staff capable of carrying out on-call and all required high-level hospital care services. Secondly, the Pathological Clinic, the Radiology, the Microbiological Department operate 24/7 and with the staff required - radiologists, manufacturers, etc. - with permanent nursing staff, having at their disposal the necessary material support. Also, the materials should be administered directly to the Orthopaedic Clinic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, we have had the opportunity in the past to discuss very acute health services problems in the region of Crete. This time you highlight the problems in Lassithi Prefecture and especially in Ierapetra. I think that is right, because it is indeed a joint finding that there is a pre-emptive deterioration and depreciation of services. That's a timeless depreciation. Today things are at a very marginal point. I think it's below the safety limits. It really can't be a hospital that can't on a daily basis, at least for basic specialties such as the Pathological Clinic. It is right that the society of Ierapetra through a very dynamic movement in recent years has raised these problems and has claimed to upgrade the services of the region. Things are very difficult and you know that. The government's political will is to stop this dissolution in the health system and to meet the most urgent needs as a matter of priority. That is what we can do today, ensuring the survival of public structures and, at the same time, trying to strengthen the system with human potential and prevent the collapse of the morality of doctors and other personnel, which, in fact, in extremely difficult conditions, still holds hospitals up in such areas today, especially and is trying to provide reliable services. The Lassithi County does have a speciality. There's a fragmentation of public structures. It is a prefecture, which has three hospitals and one, which was in an intermediate form between a health centre and a hospital in Naples. This will evolve into a rehabilitation centre and will be the second public rehabilitation centre in the country. This is a very important development, I think. We have signed the approvals to open and join the ESDP - in the new ETUC - and to be financed. This fragmentation of structures creates further problems in a period of complete deorganisation and a lack of human resources. We believe, however, that it is necessary in these three public structures, where there is a geographical specificity which requires their operation, to ensure at least the proper functioning of the basic specialities: pathologists, cardiologists, surgeons, pediatricians, anesthetics, etc. The moves we have made in this period are, firstly, that we have relaunched an ancillary pathologist's position. You know that in 2014 there was a three-time post of an ancillary pathologist at the Ierapetra Hospital, unfortunately without any interest. All three times the proclamation was brutal. I fear that the last one we have published will be as brutal as that of a three-year term of office. This shows a more general difficulty in attracting special young doctors at this time. And that means we need to find a more attractive grid of incentives to serve hospitals and public structures in remote, in difficult areas and islands. At the same time, there is a crisis procedure in the Selection Council, in the SKEIOPNI, a permanent doctor of the ESS, a specialist of Pathology. It is the effort we are making and the administration of the EDP. There's interesting. There are three candidates from what I've been informed. There is an attempt to speed up the process. And of course, once it has been completed, the appointment will be immediate. At the same time, the problems of laboratories - which you rightly say exist - are trying to deal with. We have now given a seat to these six permanent staff posts that we have published. There are two nurses' seats for the hospital and one radiological operator's location. At the same time, we are making an effort in cooperation with the Saint Nicholas Hospital and under the supervision of the ICM, to see whether there is the possibility of a marginal movement for a short period of radiological operators from the Hospital of Ierapetra to fill this gap, this urgent need that exists today. There is also a post of orthopaedic, which has been judged by old crises and is in the final phase of appointment. This is a permanent ERC doctor's post. In the next supplementary staff notice package, our IPA has recommended two positions of medical assistants - one for microbiological and one for radiological - which we will also be publishing. The effort that will be made is in the overall planning and distribution of the positions that we will make in the next period either permanent or subsidiary staff, so that this hospital and this area have a priority. It's a tough time. We know the enormous needs. The possibility of meeting all these needs is very difficult, as you can see. Procedures, anyway, are time-consuming. For the permanent staff we have been proclaiming these days, the notice has gone to the AACC. At best, it will take months to complete for non-medical staff. And as far as doctors are concerned, you know the procedure lasts one and a half to two years. We therefore believe that what is needed at the moment is the nail and teeth support of human resources, which bears a very heavy burden. That is why we are trying in fact to be all right in our obligations towards his employees and the work he has done with a great deal of trouble. You know that yesterday most of the hospitals in the country were paid the newspapers of the first quarter of 2015 to hospital doctors. We have also regulated the remaining staff gap, and we believe that in June we will be able to repay the corresponding period for the rest of the staff. Above all, we want to ensure a normality and a smooth flow of payments so that people working under adverse conditions feel that the state respects and recognises their trouble. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat the appeal. There is not just a slight prolongation of time. You're more than double your time. We can't get the process out of here. We have too many questions. I would ask that there be a consistency in time. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, some of the things you mentioned earlier have an enigmatic character. It's a little siblative, the answer to what will happen, with the area, with Agios Nikolaos, with Ierapetra, with Sitia, with Naples. You must answer very clearly. Is there any plan to close any of the hospitals in Ierapetra? That is about what I understood, because of increased needs, because of the cost we may have cuts. But answer that very clearly. Be careful, what you told us about the position of the pathologist, paramedical staff, etc., you told them on May 13 at the meeting you had with the employees of the Ierapetra Hospital. It's been 20 days. The situation isn't expecting. People are shouting. You said it back then. However, ever since then, nothing has been done at all and it is a sign of the real needs of the Hospital of Ierapetra. You know, New Democracy and PASOK obviously have serious responsibilities for sub-financing as a result of their policies implemented by two memorandums, implementing laws, etc. But your own SYRIZA - ANEL government follows exactly the trumped-up path, that is, the same way that the previous government has taken. Because here we do not consider intentions simply, this is where we look at the final result. When you meet with the OECD and discuss how you will upgrade health services by discussing with the OECD, when the OECD in all its reports says that health costs are a brake on the competitiveness of businesses, you realise, therefore, that you will not just recruit but that the situation in the health sector is worse. From this point of view, as a Communist Party of Greece, we will insist on bringing the problems into the House, but above all calling on the world to take the case into its own hands and not showing any postponement and no credit for any time. I will tell you that the Communist Party of Greece, Flevaris, has tabled a proposal for a law to abolish all anti-grass law enforcement, including all health and welfare laws. But you are following a completely different path from what the JRC says, that there must be a free, public, universal health system for all people without any cutbacks. We do not see health as a cost, but as a social asset that everyone should enjoy. From this point of view, then, you are precisely serving this competitiveness of businesses. I saw a photo of you with the OECD representatives to discuss what? Promote the OECD toolbox and the health sector to enhance business competitiveness? Therefore, you must immediately move on to the implementation of the demands not only of the Communist Party of Greece but of the inhabitants of the region in order to be able to breathe this region. I would remind you that at this hospital in Ierapetra, too many of the accidents were saved, because the road network sucks. You know that. When F16 fell with the pilots, the hospital took care of them. When immigrants come out in Ierapetra, the hospital, the doctors, the nursing staff run first. It can't be deceived or closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u36	My dear colleague, we have said from the outset that the path to dismantling the public health system - which was part of a political plan, to transfer the cost of the economic crisis, the capitalist economic crisis, as you all want to call it, and that is what it is - the world of work, the middle-class, the social state and, of course, the public health system. This political plan ended on 25 January. There is another political concept here, which says that public care is a priority and that it is a social asset which in a period of humanitarian crisis must first be supported. We've given written samples in this direction. We abolished the 5 euros, the access ticket to the health system, made a joint ministerial decision on universal coverage of uninsured persons, and we have announced for the first time after six years a call for permanent staff. They are few, but they will follow other packages correspondingly. We move in every possible way to keep public hospitals up. This is the political project, which we are trying to implement with the survival of the ESS, with the relief of society and, of course, with the reorganisation of the health system with emphasis on primary care, prevention, public health, transparent system governance and sustainable funding. That is the policy grid, which we are promoting. There is no excess of structure today in the health system in a period of health poverty. It is very important to contribute all public structures to both the province and the center. There is no plan for shrinking, closing or anything else, especially at this time of great need. Of course, at some point, we need to build a serious health map in the country and see in a rational manner the better distribution of human and material resources in the system. This is a case pending. This is not today's debate. We know very well the contribution of all the structures and services there in the region. We're doing everything we can to strengthen. However, tools for direct improved intervention in the system, unfortunately they do not exist. There are specific procedures, positions are being proclaimed and there is a very well-known bureaucratic delay. I wish, at some point - and this is our will - that we succeed as a Parliament, in legislating a different framework, which will speed up these procedures. That's our will. We believe that in this way there is no justification for your position, that we are continuing the same policy. Obviously, within four months there can be no change in everyday life and in the bad situation, in which the health system has been found over time and through tragic cuts far below Europe's average conditions. With regard to the discussions that we are having with the OECD, we have met with the OECD health officer and the issues we have raised, it is the universal coverage of the population and reform of primary care. Who disagrees with that? Nor did we discuss any neoliberal intervention. The OECD recognises the deficit and the problems that have arisen from the austerity policy in Greece. It is no coincidence that we have now managed to put conditions on the agenda and international organisations, such as 'humanist crisis' and 'health poverty', which demonstrate the disastrous impact of austerity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. Follow the second question under number 1523/3-4-2015 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on problems in the functioning of the Centre for Health of Ithaca. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. In continuing from where the Minister left off, I would like to say that 'the wolf, and if it changes probation, wolf remains', Minister. The OECD wolf remains. It is not going to turn into an organisation that is facing the satisfaction of people's needs. His priority is to maintain the capitalist system and satisfy the needs of the multinationals. And in that name it sacrifices the satisfaction of the people's needs. From this point of view, Minister, it seems very clear that you are also targeted as a government in meeting the European Union's strategic choices and meeting the needs of capital and health issues. In the case of viability and business activity, you do not question these two strategic choices. From this point of view, health supply is increasing. The logic is that everyone should have access to health care according to their financial potential. In this respect, what is being created? A net is simply inadequate to protect the most impoverished. This is the strategy implemented everywhere in the European Union. Anyway, about the issue of the Ithaca Health Center. It is an island isolated coastline with three and a half thousand permanent residents. The manning of the health center is incomplete. Two general doctors and the head of health center. In fact, one of the two doctors is forced within the month to go to Argostoli to do on duty there too. They are invited to meet the needs of three and a half thousand permanent residents, who during the summer months are well aware that they exceed ten thousand. So they're on an ongoing call. There is a unique guide of the ambulance, who has to take four years off and every day is on the way. In this respect, therefore, the microbiological laboratory does not even work satisfactorily, typically in the health center. And we're talking in 2015. While there are tools, it can't just work the microbiological lab, because there's no manufacturer. And much more, when even for a simple prescribing, the inhabitants of northern Ithaca who, in their vast majority, are of great age, are forced to go to Vathy. To travel many miles in a rough and difficult road, even for a simple prescribing! Not much longer, if the patient needs to be crossed from Ithaca to Kefalonia or to another area. The doctor's going to choose whether to escort the patient or stay in the health center, because he won't have another person there to serve any incident. So, in this case, the questions are very specific, Minister. What are you going to do to meet with the immediate health and paramedical staff, so that they can meet the basic needs in the health centre, by recruiting permanent staff? Secondly, it is necessary to function the Agricultural Physician of the Cross, which meets the needs of northern Ithaca, mountainous Ithaca, so that people can go to the capital of Ithaca for simple incidents, such as minor injuries or prescriptions. These are the main issues, Minister, who want an immediate answer. Not much more, when your Government stresses that tourism issues are a priority. Health issues? So here needs a concrete answer, what you have done so far and what you will do to address the problem immediately. Because it is not solved by volunteering or by the money that the permanent residents or residents of the outside of Kefalonia will give to pay some temporary posts of nurse and medical staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u40	My dear colleague, the picture you present in the question, I think it is absolutely objective. No one doubts that in some island regions and in unavoidable areas, the long-term abandonment of public health structures and the cut in costs and human resources in recent years has created a dramatic situation in their daily lives, which is, of course, translated into suffering, to a financial burden for patients, citizens and, above all, to the insecurity of people in the face of illness. That is what I think is a crucial issue. In particular, in areas which are tourist destinations and which have very much to be visited in the summer, the improvement of health services, in addition to being a very critical social need, is also a question of development and economic progress for these regions. The specific problems you are talking about, obviously we have not been able to deal with them in this short period of time. What's going on right now is a placement of a rural doctor. It's been chosen and we're trying to speed up the time-consuming process, to be appointed properly. We're in touch with the 6th PD. I have been informed that there is a call of interest within the IGC and there is already interest by two general doctors - I think the Akrata Health Centre - who are available to go for the summer period, for about a quarter, to strengthen the Ithaca Health Centre. As for the building issue of this structure, there is a real estate upgrade study from the Municipality of Ithaca, which is in the technical service of the Ministry and is at the end of the approval phase and then the auctioning of a project that will slightly improve the health center infrastructure. Obviously this health centre, like all the other island regions, will be included in this contingency plan, which we have announced this year, that of strengthening the public health system with permanent and subsidiary staff. But you know very well that from the call of positions to their final occupation it is taking a very long time and we are sure that this summer will be very difficult in these areas, because there is no way to cover all these gaps directly. It's practically impossible. Start cover procedures, we can. We can't cover it right away. We can't. There is no tank of doctors and other staff in the Ministry from which to power the public health system today. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] There is a big problem with this year's budget. It is a budget with huge cuts in expenditure, almost 230 million less than 2014. To the extent that the process of centralised negotiation of the country will be completed and there will be a new, stable financial framework, this government has stated its intention to strengthen the budget for the public health system and to ensure the minimum functioning of public structures. So we will do everything we can, because we have a public care bias. Your criticism is completely wrong when you say that we accept the logic of the competitiveness of the OECD and the other international organisations, which of course have a neoliberal mark. We are barely talking about a fundamental security network, about universality in the health system and about priority in public care. We do not regard hospital enterprises, which aim at balanced budgets and increased revenues, as services that must meet social needs and meet basic human and social rights, such as the right to decent care. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] This is our understanding of the health system and we will try with realistic and practicable policy measures to ensure in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u41	My colleague has the floor for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the situation in Ithaca and in general, is not the responsibility of the current government. It is a time-consuming responsibility and cause, but what we are criticising the government is that it follows the bereaved one. For, look at you, Minister, in my village they say 'whoever doesn't want to get drunk, a hundred years is sifting'. You have raised a number of issues, for example the lack of funding for the state budget. Who forbids you as a government to revise the state budget in the health-related part? You have that possibility. Why don't you do it? Because you say 'we will see this after the agreement we will make with the institutional partners'. Do you deceive that the agreement will allow for the uninterrupted financing of the health sector or the reduction of even more expenditure? Secondly, there are - you say - terrible bureaucratic procedures. And who prevents you from abolishing these terrible bureaucratic procedures? You have the knife, you can cut the melon. Can you not remove these bureaucratic procedures in the field of health, where there is an emergency and immediate need? Third matter. You say there's no doctor's tank. But here there is criticism that there is overcapacity for doctors who don't have what to do. And from this point of view, I told you before, the issue of health is not dealt with by volunteering, offering and solidarity. I read yesterday a letter sent by a local MP, which says "financers, residents of the diaspora from the county, will give money to meet the needs of the summer period with medical and paramedical staff". Is that the problem? So if a doctor goes from the Akrat Health Center to the Health Center of Ithaca for the three months of the summer, will the matter be dealt with and resolved? Here there are considerable needs, which you know very well and mentioned. We're not saying anything more and something too much. But these are top priority issues. To run the Crown Doctorate, in other words, is it a matter of three months of summer, so that one does not have to leave to prescribe or treat a minor injury? Is it a luxury in today's conditions to have a microbiological lab - not a CT scanner - in Ithaca in 2015 and operate? Is this such a great thing? Everyone can open up in the smallest neighborhood microbiological lab if they have the money. And they grow these like mushrooms, because the public system has collapsed, you have led it rather - not you, but the previous governments - to dismantle. Is this a luxury in 2015? To have a doctor who can accompany the patient, not to happen anything, is it a terrible and terrible thing? Is it a luxury to have a building that meets the needs of earthquake shielding? So all these are very practical issues. You want to do it? You can do it. Do not hide behind excuses from the press "is a bureaucratic issue", "don't allow" etc. Change them. That's the question. And here you have to answer not for the three months that we've been doing some patches, but for the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, it's not our intention to do some marginal patches alone. What we are interested in is strategically to strengthen the public health system with permanent staff, which will reliably meet the increased needs, both because of the crisis and the Greek society as well as the visitors of this country. At the present time, however, we are also making emblematic moves, because this is our responsibility towards the great battle to keep the health system up and not collapse. This battle of course also gives it the human potential of the system and which the Ministry's political leadership recognises and supports. We have announced a recruitment programme with permanent staff. We have launched the proclamation of part of this programme - I repeat - for the first time after six years. In a very difficult budgetary situation, we are trying to be okay with our financial obligations towards workers. But obviously, we cannot have a landscape broken down, lunar and drugged at the same time by the known pathogens, - distortions, complications, provocative demand, waste and corruption that exists in the health system - transform it as magically within three months. Unfortunately, that is the reality. You're telling us to speed up recruitment. Of course, we want to speed them up. But how is that going to happen? Do you have any view - let us say - that you should abolish the AACC? The AAP in itself needs six months of process to complete. We are making compromises at this time to shorten these times. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Do you have an opinion to change the way the doctors choose and abolish the selection boards and be done by another procedure? Let's talk about it. We'll open a dialogue with both medical clubs and all the political forces to see these things. We certainly do not want to have an disability today of public administration which cannot respond to this increased pressure from the need for the world. We'll do our best. What we want, however, is for us to be recognised, at least, that we are moving in a different direction. It is not the same direction, ladies and gentlemen. I told you before that we have given samples of writing. We do not have a squeeze plan for services such as the previous ones or a job insecurity plan in hospitals, availability and redundancies. And we do not have a plan of greater burdens on citizens and passive privatisation of the system, as was the case in the previous period. We are strengthening universality in access. We are trying to strengthen the functionality of the system so that it can respond to increased demand, which will mean access to uninsured persons. And obviously the sustainable financing of the system wants another different financial framework. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] That's what we're struggling for right now. Our country is giving us a very tough political battle these days on the European institutions and institutions of Europe to ensure an equal and decent place for its society and for its people in the European Union, which will have other priorities based on people's social goods and needs. That is what we are seeking. We believe that, with the support of the honest and reliable forces that the health system has today, with the knowledge of the problems, we will slowly manage to form another environment much more decent for both workers and patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-three students and two educational sessions, from the 8th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first under number 240/19-5-2015 topical question of the first cycle of MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Simorellis to the Ministers for Health and Finance, regarding the planned payments for the costs of medicines, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The second under number 225/18-5-2015 topical question by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Finance and National Defence Ministers, on infrastructure at the School of Positive Sciences of Thessaly, is not discussed and deleted. The third under number 218/14-5-2015 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the degradation and devaluation of the institution of the National Guard, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction and deleted. Also, the fourth under number 236/19-5-2015 topical question by MP II of Athens, Potamiou Mr. Harry Theocharis, Minister of Finance, concerning the extension of the deadline for the application of Article 15 of the Law. 4321/2015 on the one-off repayment of part of the debt with a discount, not discussed and deleted. Series is the fifth under No 247/19-5-2015 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the time of payment of the one-off aid to hotel staff. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Dimitrios Army. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The topical question relates to the debate that is taking place these days on insurance. A lot is said and revealed about further overturns planned in retirement age limits, pension levels, zero deficit clause, which is suspended and not suspended, but which are not eliminated, for the mathematical type of calculation of the single, changed or unchangeable, and many other leaks, which increase the insecurity and uncertainty of the workers and pensioners. Of course these overturns have been made so far and are the birth of the previous coup d'état and of those planned, it is understandable that they are increasingly concerned by the workers and, in particular, the majority of workers in tourism, who are employed seasonally. Four and a half thousand days of insurance require thirty to forty-five calendar years of work, so that they can be gathered. And if we accept that someone ends compulsory education and goes to production, you understand that the age limit for them will be sixty-five, sixty-seven, seventy-seven, so that they can have these days of insurance. This defines everything and the drafting and the one and all the ones resulting from the statutes or from the conquests of workers over the years. It is well known that the previous period has overturned the issue of the one-off hotel staff. It has already reduced by 30% the level of the one-off payment and, of course, the reserves have been nullified, they have been reduced by the haircut. And the estimate is that over 55% have disappeared. The one-off period - we have made a mistake in our timely question, which we say fourteen months - is twenty-four months. And because, indeed, there are too many hotel staff waiting long now, the questions to you, Minister, are: What are you gonna do? You intend to abolish the reduction of the one-off imposed by Mr. 4073/2012 and re-establish the calculation method that applied until first? What measures will you take to recruit the staff needed for the private sector Welfare Fund in order to shorten the procedures for paying the one-off allowance to those who meet the conditions, of course, within two months of submitting their application? These are the questions. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yes, the climate is, as Mr Katsotis carried it, a concern about where insurance rights and pensions are going from the citizens. This is also due to the slaughter cuts made over the past five years and to the main pensions and subsidiary pensions, which have reached between 35% and 50%, and, in fact, have demolished them and the large Memorandum Reductions made in the single, 35% to 40%, but also to the new reductions that were launched in the single, which are about the percentages said by Mr Katsotis, 29%, 30%, but in some sectors they may also reach 80% if the new mathematical formula had been applied by the previous government of Samaras - Venizelos. There is indeed a concern from the interventions of the so-called partners in the country, which operate in practice as irresponsible lenders in the country, particularly the International Monetary Fund, who, in the tough negotiations that the government is holding, insist that a new drastic reduction in pensions be agreed with our country. In other words, they also call for the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding, which leads to new reductions and additional reductions in pensions. It is true - and I agree with you - that these creditors' requirements are very fierce and create insecurity and uncertainty to the insured and pensioners. Thirdly, with regard to this issue, there are the positions that the government has put forward in its negotiation to have an agreement beneficial to the people and the country. And to be such, it must be compatible with SYRIZA's programme with its basic programming commitments. The priorities it has in the negotiations are firstly to cancel the zero deficit clause by law, in order not to reduce the reductions in supplementary pensions. In practice we have, you know that well, because I did not sign the ministerial decision on its activation. But I agree with you that he also wants legislation to calm down pensioners. And it must be done as soon as possible and it will be done. The second is with the main pensions. For those who established a pension right from 1-1-2015, the new method of calculation of laws 3863/2010 and 3865 applies. We have them frozen, because as a competent Minister, I have not signed the main circulars for their activation. However, I agree with you that in order for there to be certainty there must also be legislation and there will be legislation in the next few days. There's gotta be one and there's gonna be one. Third one. As regards age limits, early retirements, etc., the Government has committed itself from the principle that it will fully respect the basic rights of insured persons and that will do so. As regards the so-called unifications, etc., which are heard, the Government has said that it will do on the basis of its own programme but not on the basis of the priorities of the lenders who request them to consolidate the benefits downwards but will do so if necessary, after dialogue with trade unions and insurers, to precede reliable and efficient proportionate studies and, above all, in no case to be unified downwards of pensions and insurance benefits. We are therefore moving on this basis. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I conclude by saying that the two problems you have highlighted are the way you have said. We also have a certain number of staff recruitment in this fund in our immediate programming to deal with the problem of a long delay. Secondly, as regards not applying the new mathematical formula to single, which would lead to a 30%-80% slaughter cut, you know that we have frozen him. A committee led by Mr Romania and the general managers of the welfare funds had been set up, which should end up. The briefing I have from the Ministry's Secretary General is that it will be announced these days. [[At this point it repeatedly rings the end of the speech bell of the Deputy Minister]] The main torso of the new mathematical formula to be introduced by the government will have the same contributions as the employees themselves plus a technical interest rate, so that it can take the only one at the same level as the one given up to 31-8-2013 before the new mathematical formula of Mr Brutsis and the Government of Samaras - Venizelos is applied. In my dentistry, I can give more evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. So you do not abolish the n. The new mathematical formula made by Mr Brutsis will not be accepted and the provisions relating to the reduction of the single, you will simply not accept the new mathematical formula. Therefore, the 30% reduction will continue to remain the one foreseen by the Council. Date of birth: 4093/2012. Why do you say, for what was on 31-8-2013. The total amount of the aid was EUR 1,2 million, i.e. EUR 1,2 million, i.e. EUR 1,2 million, i.e. EUR 2,2 million, i.e. EUR 2,2 million, i. EUR 2,2 million, i.e. EUR 2,2 million, i. EUR 2,8 million, i.e. EUR 2,8 million, i. EUR 2,8 million, i.e. EUR 2,8 million, i. EUR 2,6 million, i.e. EUR 2,8 Therefore, the decrease remains in the single dose. You say that they will not harm fundamental pension rights. Let me ask you, Minister. A maid in which heavy and unhealthy will go to sixty-seven. Tell me which hoteler to keep a sixty-seven-year-old worker at work. He's gonna fire her. It will be for many years in the 'demands', so to speak. So, until now, she was able to receive her sixty - two pension, reduced, with these penalties currently provided for by the law. That will therefore be abolished. Because that's what it's planned for. Removal of intermediate age limits and early retirement. So what do you propose to these workers, who - if you like - want forty-five calendar years to fill out the basic conditions for four and a half thousand days? In addition, on the matter of the one-off, Mr Minister, last year you asked Mr Brutsi a timely question about the delay of one year. You made timely and asked Mr Brutsi to take steps to stop this unacceptable regime. Now, then, the delay is twenty-four months. Because I inform you that the one-off payment due to a 20-year or retirement pension is in April 2013, and the contribution payments are in November 2012. So you understand that we are talking about two or three years' delay in giving this right to hotel workers. So, here you need to take immediate action, as the intentions are not enough, Minister. We need to see an act, because we need to strengthen the fund with equivalent staff, so that more rapid progress can be made in the awarding of one-off taxes or the return of taxes to workers and, of course, a number of issues can be tackled, which if I take into account what you said, your intention is not to bring back the ones where they were, but where they have - at least where they have gone - with the reduction of the previous law, of 4093/2012. The workers must understand that this government has no intention of reintroducing the one where it was in the previous period. Because I have to tell you that the contributions are of the workers. Since 1992 there have been profound overturns and where employers were involved they have been abolished and they are only employee contributions. Employers do not participate in the welfare fund nor in the state. Of course, that is the line, that is the direction that the European Union is taking, that is to say, the total exemption of employers and the state from social security. This goes on, it is being promoted overall by the previous government, but it seems from your own view, by adapting to the decisions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u52	First of all, I want to assure Mr Katsotis, as he knows it - he is a Member of Parliament who comes from the social and labour struggles and knows the insurance provisions very well - that he is right. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o It should be abolished. That is why I am saying - to be specific - that we shall repeal paragraph 7 of Subsection IA5 of the n. The decision of the Minister under number 4093/2012, which provided for these reductions to the one-off and, at the same time, the Ministerial Decision under No 80000/1093/26/10/2014, which implemented exactly this provision that you said No. We will be providing for a new method of calculation to take the single ones that were taken before and do not have these reductions. We will therefore be abolishing the n. The Commission's proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulations (EEC) Nos 4093 and 4093 and the Ministerial Decision, which came into force. That's what we're going to do. You're right. That's what I said. As far as the time dates are concerned, they are the ones you know. He made them with a new law by Mr. Brutsis and because he had very big reactions because of these reductions, he said: "Yes, the reductions will be made, but those who come out by 31-8-2013 will not have, the others will have." It was completely arbitrary. You criticized him, too. But you're right about n. And the commitment is that this very provision that you have referred to will be abolished. Secondly, you are also right that we need to be very specific about how to strengthen with staff. Right now, we're fighting for it. What we have achieved as Ministry in relation to the Ministry of Administrative Reform is that in the tender that will take place in the next few days, in June - not to say next few days - for three hundred thousand permanent staff hired to the insurance funds has been foreseen and from there will be six permanent posts for the fund. Already in the distribution we made to the "available" who were fired and returned, another six will go and there will be loose ends and three more seats already. That is, at the moment, 15 posts have been secured. That's not enough. We will fight - and you are right - for far more than that, so that there are no delays. We will also make use of a five-month notice for public administration and insurance funds, even though you are aware of my position in this institution and I am in favour of full and stable employment. Since we have been assured by our Ministry, by Mrs Rania Antonopoulou, the Minister for Employment, that even in this way for the last time they have been applied this year, they will have the minimum wage - no one under the minimum wage - and insurance not only for health which has been so far but also for pensions, i.e. sound, we will use fifty to 60 of these unemployed to help at least a period of time to get the single people cleared up. It's not a solution. I know your opinion. You know my own personal point of view, because I've had the labor movement for years too. It's not a solution. Permanent staff with full and stable work can meet these needs. However, because of this exceptional situation, we will use all the possibilities that we are given to go sooner, to get out the one and not to be late for twenty-four months. You, because you were also a private trade union executive, know that in the same Metal Fund, etc., or in commercial employees - there are five years' delays in the granting of the single currency. Therefore, whether with permanent staff or exceptional solutions, we will try to address the very real problem that you are referring to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. The sixth question under number 213/12-5-2015, first question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to protect the health of the students at Ilias Tower due to the accumulation of garbage in the region, will not be discussed after consultation of the honourable Member and the Minister responsible and deleted. Also, the third with number 701/45/11-3-2015 question and application for the filing of documents by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diarias to the Minister of Finance, concerning the inventory and disclosure of rented real estate of the public and the taking of cost reduction measures from buildings, will not be discussed and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Artemis Municipal School. Our dear children, welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Subsequent to the first under number 239/19-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition, Elias Kamaterou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on contributions to the Free Professional Insurance Organisation. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Dimitrios Army. Allow me, Mr President, to say that at 12 o'clock, we are starting legislative work. I would ask you very much, because there are other timely questions from your colleagues, that we take care of the time and respect it. Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. Minister, with this timely question more I would like to make an intervention, because I know your sensitivities and because from discussions with free professionals I receive a great concern, and then I do not worry about the 100-dollar system that we have voted on and it goes well, than you say and the evidence is, of course, saying, at some point it blocks and does not deliver what is required. And it is not just that it will not deliver what is required to the state. The most important thing to me is that he's going to cause a problem for freelance professionals. Mr Minister, in order to be more specific, we know that the free traders have come to owe many years - some have owed too many years - because they have not been able to afford the current contributions. We know that it is not immediately possible to improve the situation so that they can collect, work and pay. They therefore have the 100 doses they have made, but they also have the current contributions. We have created three scales but it is still not that big a difference to make them easier. So if they stop paying the contributions, they lose the regulation, with a bunch of them. Their accounts, etc., are frozen. One last question. How is it possible - is it unfair for everyone and me - that people pay the health industry retrospectively while they had no care? I know too many cases and you know that for years people have been running and lending to meet their health needs or have not covered them and had serious health problems and now we are coming back and we are asking them to pay the health industry. I think that's unfair, and we need to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the consistency of time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, on the occasion of your timely question about debt regulation in insurance funds, I would like to inform you that it is generally going very well. I will report to the House this evening, commenting on an amendment made by our fellow Members, Stathis Leucasos and Yiannis Stathas, which I think gives us a positive way out of here. The regulation is therefore going very well in total. Just for the OAU who asked me, namely, for the self-employed, I would like to inform you that hundreds of thousands have already joined the regulation and that it is a record number. The largest record of regulation was thirty thousand applications. Debts of 1.5 billion have been set in the OAU and has already received some EUR 45 million as the first instalment. This was a factor and a relief of the same, because it was a favorable regulation and a resumption, because they received insurance information and financial relief from the OSCE, which, without additional burdens from the state budget, this month fully complied with its pension obligations. The problem you're putting is real and real. He was coming to me before the elections too, and now I'm more intense. We've tried to make five protection zones so far. The first zone was the arrangement that was favourable, with several instalments, large write-offs and surcharges, if they pay one-off debt at 100%, if they pay in instalments for debts of up to EUR 5,000, the most economically weak not to pay any interest and for debts of more than 5,000 euros, the interest is 0,25% a month, that is, much less than in the previous arrangements. In this first zone, therefore, they have largely responded. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. The second protection zone is that we've decriminated their debts. So far, as you know, the self-employed, when they owed their fund, could have been in or in jail. We're done with this. We abolished junta's mandatory law 86, 50 years later. In the third protection zone, it was foreseen that if a self-employed person had a zero income in 2014, the seizures, measures, prisons, etc., which had been imposed on him and had the potential to date, at the end of March, to be regulated if he could recover. Of course, as far as the main problem you said with the current contributions is concerned, we have made it possible to choose to immerse three classes of insurance lower so that current contributions give EUR 131 less a month. We also made a fifth protection zone, along with Andreas Xanthos, the Minister of Health, Mr.Kourublis, Mrs.Photos, Mr. Katrugalos, myself and other ministers, with the joint ministerial decision that we signed for the complete medical, hospital and health care of uninsured and self-employed persons, with the health booklet of an insurer who will be made through JEPs, Municipalities etc. There remains this looseness that you mentioned with contributions that they have not paid for their health and have not had an insurance booklet in these years because of this, which is why they are now being asked for contributions from the insurance funds and, in particular, from the OSH to be regulated. We have a serious study on this issue. We have very great legal objections from the competent authorities that the universality of the insurance system is being violated if we break the premium in pension and health. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing again and again.]] Nevertheless, we continue to be in an investigation, to see what solution we can give on this issue. Thank you, Mr President, and apologise for overcoming time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Minister, and for your last assurance that you are trying. In fact, we should not stay in some legal problems that will exist in order to restore injustice in the health sector. On the first point I raised on the current contributions, you can understand that the EUR 131 less that you said you could pay is not a solution, because the contributions are already large. As for the measure you said that you were introducing, the uninsured, are a very good measure that we supported and supported. And all the other measures you mentioned, you know that we support them. My intervention, too, is in the direction of helping even further. But our problem, Minister, is not to make the professional destitute. Because it is a very good measure for all people to have health coverage in the context of the humanitarian crisis, but we are talking here about professionals, about self-employed people, who do not want them to be deprived. We want to help them stand on their feet, to slowly start and to be able to do even a little work they find. Because right now these people can't do anything. Their accounts are frozen, they can't be paid through banks, because they're getting their money. If they do not pay a instalment of the current contributions, they lose control and become unreported. I think there are specific things we can do to help. I'll only tell you two. Firstly, why should they not be able to pay a current contribution, so that they cannot regulate their current contributions as they stand, in twelve instalments? Why should they also lose regulation? Let them keep the regulation and be able to regulate the current contributions. The second is: You know that the data available on the closure of businesses are forged. Because there are businesses waiting for three to four years to check to close their books. And one reason why they do not close, even after the check, is why they are required to pay all the contributions they owe only so that they can close their books. What you understand is impossible. We could also make it easier for these debts to be regulated here too. I conclude, with this: You will also hear complaints from professionals that our government in these months has thrown all its weight into the re-introduction of fired unjustly, etc. and he doesn't do what he should do for small businesses and free trade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, that's not true. Just, the results are more tangible and more direct with the re-intakes. We all know very well that in order to relaunch the economy, much more is needed. Of course, the measures we are now discussing are a relief, so I say that it is a pity to block the system and we should help to continue. Let me give you a typical example, and I'll finish with that. You can't start small businesses, especially in tourist areas, where I come from and when the professional in the season opens up, IKA and PPC fall on him. Incidentally, in order to adjust to PPC, 50% and a few small doses are required. There is no one, when he owes fifteen, twenty or thirty thousand, to pay once he opens his shop 50% and PPC cut the electricity! It drops the IKA and everything else, and it needs to make adjustments to the IKA, regulations on the taxi, regulations on the TEBE, regulations on PPC. I think, if we don't see the whole thing, we'll have a problem. Much more we have promised - and we may not be able to do so immediately - that all these contributions would amount to a maximum percentage of the income either of the natural person or of the businessman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the success of the government's regulation of tax debts and insurance funds shows that it is consistent with its pre-election commitments that it would make these arrangements to help both the self-employed and the small and medium-sized enterprises to relaunch the economy, but to do better on their household accounts. On the other hand, the public revenue and revenue of the insurance funds would also be based. The great success, that is, the fact that in my area of responsibility 4100,000 euros have been set by two thousand debtors in the insurance funds and that about EUR 150,000, 000 has already been collected - in a sense 'hot' money - as the first instalment shows that the obsession of the country's creditors does not want this regulation to go through, to call it unilateral energy - if you remember, when the law was passed in Parliament - it was unacceptable. Our government has done and politically ignored these pressures and blackmails. Finally, it seems that the pursuits of the lenders at that stage, and now they are not mainly focused on how they get the money that the country owes them. It seems that it dominates the political criterion to cancel an example of questioning the policies of austerity in Europe. Now, with regard to the three issues you have raised, the first has been dealt with. You're right, you can't delay a dose and miss setting. That is why, for self-employed people twenty days ago, I tabled an amendment, which was adopted, on the basis of which they can delay up to three instalments a year instead of one. So, we took a breath.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u61	In the regulation, however, not to the debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u62	In the arrangement, that's what I'm saying. Therefore, they do not lose control if they are delayed a month, one dose, but have a three-dose delay. Secondly, as far as pensioners are concerned, we are tabling a bill next week on the CSR and on insurance outstandings, where we are giving a way out of those who closed the books, who applied for retirement and because they owe the CSR over EUR 20,000 and the EBRD over EUR 15 000, cannot pay them and are not entitled to a pension. We're going to give a way out. I believe that we will have sent the bill to the General Secretariat of the Government by the request that it be put into open consultation in the next week and come to the House very quickly. With regard to the third point you raised, we have quite rightly noticed that while many self-employed people go and put money into the bank and say that these are for regulation, for insurance contributions they owe, there is a confiscation of money they put on account of a lot of old loose ends, as you said. We are bringing rules to this bill, which I told you we will send to the Government Secretariat tomorrow, on the basis of which the funds that the insured have been able to pay in spite of their obligations in the insurance funds cannot be seized. Finally, it is very right to point out that whatever we do is not enough. There's a key issue. If the memorial policies of austerity continue, as many regulations as we can bring in, as many conveniences as we can do, neither the economy nor the self-employed nor the small and medium-sized enterprises can get on with them. That is why the government is negotiating a favourable agreement for the country, compatible with the programme of the parties supporting it before the elections and, in particular, with the government's programme statements adopted by Parliament. In order for the economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed to breathe, it is a one-way road, and it is incomprehensible to put an end to the policies of austerity and to have a development plan for the country based on the financing of public, social and private investment, as long as they increase jobs, they respect employment relations and the environment. This can only be done, firstly, if the country is decapitated from the memoranda, secondly, if any agreement ensures that public investment is actively increased, that bank liquidity will be strengthened by public control in the economy, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, by strengthening active demand by restoring the minimum wages of collective agreements and by regulating the red loans from public households to banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, next is the first with number 797/13-2015 question by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christou Smia to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the inviting performance on the IKA of the increase received by pensioners due to family weights. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Dimitrios Army. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for reasons of social sensitivity, the state has in the past introduced a small increase in the pension of IKA for pensioners whose spouses are not working. This measure, as a minimum financial aid, was obviously aimed at protecting the family and to address the consequences of unemployment as a minimum. However, for many years it has been common citizens, particularly in a long-term unemployment situation, who have been in receipt of contributions there, so that they can receive a minimum pension at some point in the future. This was consolidated as a practice, although these insured persons did not actually work. And that was the social extent of this situation, so that none of the insured did realize that insurance in the OGA means exercising a profession. Thus, many IKA members of his family appeared to receive pension even for decades the surcharge of a wife, while she was insured in the OGA and therefore did not deserve it. In many cases, the citizens themselves joined the IKA to declare that they were retired by the OGA or that they submitted their contributions there and while the services were aware, they did not go ahead with the payment of the surcharge. Although IKA seemed to know the situation many years, it did nothing to rationalize it. Finally, for a year, he has decided to retain all debts accumulated in previous years due to the unduly paid increase and even injurious. It goes on to a monthly withholding that often touches 20% of the monthly pension, and this in one of the most difficult economic periods in our country's modern history. Of course, the question, Minister, is not intended to justify a state of health, because it is true that the state should ensure that its citizens are protected in a positive way and not by making the mistakes in irregular practices. So the purpose is not to irregularly end up with alleviating these people, but to see how legitimate the orderly state is on the basis of its principles and fairness it can express its solidarity with the citizens who, without any treacherousness or material harm, are alleged to owe funds to the state today, of course, which they cannot pay. That is why I consider the case law of the Council of State in similar cases to be very important. The Council of State therefore considers that if the following three conditions apply, it is reasonable to exempt pensioners from payment of the large sums and interest accumulated in the years and conditions: if the charge is made after a long period of time, if there was no fraud on the part of pensioners, but they received these sums in good faith, and if they are created because of the allocation of unfavourable consequences for pensioners. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is clear that at the present juncture the rate of withholding these debts is disastrous for retired people. As we all know, this situation did not involve any fraud on the part of the citizens. Given the fact that IKA has not sought this money for decades, it is clear that in these cases all the conditions set by the Council of State apply. In view of all this, Mr Minister, do you think it is reasonable that IKA's energy should be kept today at such a rate that it had not sought for decades and, indeed, with an interest-rate increase? What action do you intend to take in order to stop or stop at these rates of retention of those found to be unduly paid? Finally, is it not reasonable to delete at least the interest from those amounts or, where appropriate, part of the basic debt?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor and I would ask you always to pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u66	This time I will be very brief, since the honourable Member has said everything. He pointed out a real, great social and economic problem facing a category of retired persons without responsibility. They're all good-looking. No one had told them that being insured with the wife or husband in the OGA constitutes a job. Once this question has been tabled and we have been brought to the attention of the parties in particular, we have instructed our services and the legal department of our Ministry to find a solution that is compatible with the decision of the Council of State, but also with the case-law that has been in place at the present time. IKA didn't do anything arbitrary. Unfortunately, from what you know, over the past five years, the legislation has changed and, while it was ten years old, the limitation on the debts of insured persons to their insurance fund has become twenty years, at the same time as for large companies - from what I have seen in my survey after your question - is ten years. So, on the occasion of your question, we will see this whole package at the outset at the outset, because the great limitation leads to their extra imposition and we will find the best possible solution to alleviate the situation of those insured who, as I have said, were in any case trustworthy and who had no fraud. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister, and the consistency of time. Mr. Smia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u68	And less, Mr President. I think that what I had in particular to say was in my first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u70	What I would like to say is that as soon as possible some regulation has to be found because these people are actually suffering, they are being retained 20% of pensions and it is really hard to get through. What they would like is for a solution to be found soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, we're going at a good pace now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u72	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Comrade, you're right. Everything we do will do very quickly. As far as you are concerned, the political direction that I have given to the services and legal services is to seek a solution that moves in two directions: firstly, to reduce the limitation time and, secondly, to the interest, because in case you are good and pay and interest, in addition to what you have to do without having been informed that there is this problem, I think a solution needs to be found. The directions I have given are limitations, interest of those who are wrongly paid without the fault of the insured. Until the good of the bill that I told you about the CEECs and the lifting of several insurance offences, the next fortnight, the committees and Parliament are open. Until then, I think we have been able to say something more specific. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th Keratsini Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u74	We enter the debate of the seventh under No 220/15-5-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou, on the announcement of a change in the VAT of the islands. The Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Yanis Varoufakis. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, Mr Minister, I am unfortunately forced to come back with the same question I submitted about a month and a half ago. The answer you gave me was very encouraging, namely that there will be no change in VAT on the islands, and you said that, while you are Minister, you will not sign any change. That gave, if you like, great courage to tourist players to sign contracts or anything else, because it was indeed a positive step. Unfortunately, however, the climate that has been created by the media today has also inactivated everything, because everyone expects what has changed - if it has changed - or what will ultimately happen with regard to VAT, because at the moment it is the period that has been signed. I would therefore like a serious question to be answered with due seriousness. I should like to ask, Mr President, the time left for me to use it in my dentistry, because I do not want to respond at this stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u76	All right, Mr. Cream. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Cream. Indeed, I made a definite commitment to this House, which I think you will agree that I have honoured it. Let me remind you that I had informed the House that there was a suffocating pressure under the agreement - bridge of the four-month extension of the loan agreement to increase the VAT on the islands. I was committed, the government was committed that we would not do that. Not only did we not do so, but we also made a further assurance that there will be no change in the VAT arrangements on the islands or elsewhere until 1 September, so that there will be an absolute certainty of the summer tourist season. As you can see, Mr Kremastinos, a commitment to biennialism cannot be made by anyone, beyond my personal commitment to strive for our island policy to be consistent with your own struggles and with the agony and expectations of the inhabitants of the islands of the Aegean. I would like to inform you that in the negotiations that are taking place at this moment, all these weeks, even today - and today, I stress this - we have an absolutely irreversible attitude to the needs of our islands. I want to be clear about this. Pressure is suffocating, despite the very strong arguments of our side, which, as I said to you last time, we put them at all levels, from the level of Prime Minister when he talks with Heads of State, to my own, in the context of Eurogroup, the Finance Ministers, in the framework of the Brussels Group, of technical scales. You know very well that our arguments are indeed inconsistent. Even ministers of finance from Spain and other countries admit that lower rates of VAT apply to their own island complexes. There is absolutely firm and correct reasoning about this. And yet we see that, in the context of the negotiations, all these important arguments go beyond them by the institutions. Not our counterparts, not our partners, our institutions. That is why it is important for us to be freed from this Memorandum of Understanding and for this negotiation to be the last with the institutions, as part of this Memorandum, if you wish, of analgesia. I would like to tell you that we have to be flexible in this context. We are obliged to see the islands as a whole. We will not retreat to a basic principle that another is to be a resident of Nisyros, Serifos, Kos, Rhodes and other to be a resident in mainland Greece, mainland Germany, in mainland France. Our principle is that, if we want to preserve the culture of the islands, if we want a real economy and not just to be a hotel complex for foreign tourists, island Greece must be an island development policy, which is specific to the islands and take into account the specificities, especially transport costs. What I intend to do, at least as Minister of Finance, to do - and I would like to invite you and all the Members of the islands to participate - is a real consultation where we are going to discuss, we will put the big question again from a zero base, if you like, on what is the best way of strengthening islands. At the moment, for example, I imagine that we agree that the maximum problem of islands and islands is the issue of transport, the issue of maritime transport. At the moment, as far as I am concerned and as far as I know - and I think you too - VAT on transport costs is 23%. In other words, this is an opportunity, while the government at all levels - Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, Brussels Group - we are struggling to make it very clear that the islands deserve a different development, I think that all of us - regardless of whether we are Communism or Opposition - should be involved in a dialogue which aims to establish a genuine development framework for the islands and within which we can integrate the various ways in which we can strengthen, through the tax system and outside the tax system, island Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you realise that I did not have and I have no intention of proving that you made a statement a while ago that is not consistent, despite the pressures you have and I recognise it. However, the question of VAT on the islands is not even a matter for Members or a Member who defends his constituents for tiny reasons. It's a national matter. If you consider that in Messinia a very good hotel unit was built and increased by 70%, proven within a year, tourism in the region will realize that if we had such infrastructure along all the coasts, not only of the islands but also of the mainland, what an increase tourism would have, in a country that has the best raw material for tourism and is the last in terms of numbers throughout the Mediterranean. We have even been overtaken by neighbouring Turkey, which had much smaller numbers, almost nil. So the institutions need to understand that, as you say. I say to them 'troika', not for any other reason, but because the word'subjections' transcends people to a far-reaching extent. The institution, as you can see, is more than the word 'troika'. Troika means three, they are the three factors, while the 'institution' is a transcendent. The troika must understand that tourism is the oxygen of Greece at the moment, because all the other wealthy sources that exist are still at a nursery stage. We will also strengthen you personally, but I also believe that this area, because tourism is a repetition of the country's oxygen. So you need to come back more forcefully on this issue, because it is not a micropolitical issue but a matter of country survival. I therefore appreciate what you have said that part of VAT will be returned to the inhabitants. It's positive. But that is not the most positive thing. But the worst thing is that all commercial, economic and tourism life will be zeroed. There are islands away from the neighboring country a few minutes on the speedboat. You realize that even the Greeks will go to buy everything on the other side. So we'll have a precipitation, a necrosis, if you like, of the country's trade. Because the country's tourism trade is the first. So it's not that simple. That is why I ask you the question and I can assure you that I have no opposition to you, who know that I appreciate you or the government of course. But it is an unsolved reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Kremastine, I didn't think you were moving from a micropolitical or opposition mood. I would ask the same question if I were you. And thank you for putting her on the table. It is very important that our Government, during this negotiation, does not abandon the sacred purpose of shielding island Greece and its further development. I would like to tell you that as far as the tourist product of the islands is concerned, but also more generally in Greece as a whole, it is not only a matter of taxation and you know that. There is a lot that needs to be done and can be done so that there is an upgrade so that it doesn't want to, that someone doesn't even talk about going to the adjacent beaches and that there is a little difference. Because you know that we cannot get into a race downwards for who will have the lowest VAT, with a country like Turkey or Cyprus with other tax havens. That is why I have spoken about a development policy for the islands as a whole, with regard to transport, with VAT. For example, on the issue of the markets that tourists make on the islands, we will have to activate much more vigorously and through non- bureaucratic procedures the return of VAT to tourists who buy, for example in Rhodes and then leave Rhodes Airport. As is happening globally, return can be made at the airport of Rhodes at that time, so that there is no incentive for this race downwards in terms of competition with countries such as Turkey. You referred to the troika as well. I would like to say to you that I understand what you are saying, but I would like to remind you that unlike the previous years, you have not seen technocrats from the three institutions invading my Ministry, the Nikos Street, or Mr Xydakis' Ministry, at any Ministry. You didn't see them interrogating ministers. You didn't see them having them outside and waiting for the ministers to talk to them to small and medium-sized institutions or the troika.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u82	I told you about the name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u83	That's why I'm separating between the institutions and the troika. What matters, however, beyond the notion of semanticism, is that Europe finally regains confidence and can these debates on the islands, for example, about VAT on our European partners on the basis of the common European acquis, on the basis of the common European interest, on the basis of common European values for how European islands should be treated, not Greek islands in relation to Spanish islands. The problem with the institutions - whether we call them institutions or troika - is that they are not interested in people. That is why this must be the last negotiation with the institutions, and from now on we must negotiate with the European Commission within the framework of European legality and not within the framework of an illegal non-transparent negotiation framework which does not fall under and is not even in line with European principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the second with number 226/18-5-2015 topical question by Mr Eleftherios Aygenakis on the privatization of fourteen regional airports in the country. The Minister will answer Mr. Varoufakis. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the regional airports sector in Greece comprises thirty-nine airports. These airports have great economic benefits, but also a much greater hidden value, resulting from the possibility of improving their infrastructure, as well as from the possibility of commercial development and development of real estate, which are currently literally underdeveloped and underused. I am presenting to you for the Practical today's front page of the Heraklion newspaper on problems faced by the regional airports of Crete. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Eleftherios Agygeakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The previous government systematically promoted the gradual operational integration of local airports for which the FRAPORT Consortium submitted the highest bid and was declared - please! - a preferred investor. This rental agreement, which covers ten regional airports, is the largest in recent years for the country, as it generates revenues of EUR 1.234 000 000 and EUR 22.9 million annually guaranteed rental. Moreover, there is a commitment from the Consortium to invest EUR 330,000,000 in the first four years and a total of more than EUR 1.4 billion over 40 years. In addition to the economic benefit, however, the concession contract in question upgrades the country's tourism product while creating at least a thousand four hundred and fifty jobs and fifteen thousand indirect new jobs. And it is certain that this will lead to developmental and other regional airports that are not included in the agreement. Despite the benefits of the Greek economy, the SYRIZA Government has not cleared its positions on this issue, enclaved in the ideologies and pre-electional fantasies and statements. Government officials, with a number of contradictory statements, are more overhauling than undoing the intentions of the Greek state. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only convey to you some of the statements made by the government's officials: On 28 January, as Minister of Economy, Mr Stathakis said: "There is an area in which the new government will not give any follow-up to issues such as privatisation of regional airports." In the agreement of 20 February, the Government says that the Greek authorities will commit themselves not to overthrow the privatisations that have been completed. On 22 February, as Minister of State, you will now state with a new statement: "Those privatisations which have been implemented so far will not be overturned, except where the legality of which we can legitimately question." In mid-February, the Minister of State, Alekos Flamouraris, at his TV interview, says: "Perfectly privatisation at airports. For us it's not a package, like others did. It is possible to select a private partnership with the municipality and another to be private only.’
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Ignace, I'm sorry. You've already reached three minutes. You have a secondary right. I would remind you that at 12 noon - which we are not going to catch up with him - legislative work should also be initiated. Let's go for 12:30, with a perspective of 13:00 for starting legislative work. Respect both the time and the rest of the Members' work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u87	I'll be done. At the same time, the Deputy Minister, Mr Spirtzis, in his radio interview, advocated the cancellation of the competition for regional airports and the creation of a mixed private-public scheme for their management. And finally, Prime Minister Tsipras, in an interview in the German magazine 'STERN', described the price of EUR 1.2 billion offered by the consortium as reasonable. The result is that the investor sees ambiguities, pluralism, lack of strategy, which is more general to your policy, and I am sure you are systematically confusing - and I am sure you as a teacher are aware of the difference - privatisation, concession, privatization and leasing of a certain period of time. The question is, Minister, what is your intention in relation to this rental, or rather, to say more correctly, your position, which we expect to hear with interest, is also an extension of the government's position? What you're going to tell us will have power over time or as long as this meeting lasts? Mr. Varoufakis, I appreciate you as a university, having followed your course. You must convince us that you are as capable and effective as the Minister of Finance. And I expect your location with great interest and anguish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u88	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Ignace, thank you for the question. In the written question you raised, you quite rightly said that the state has continued. Hence my statement, which was, of course, included in the Eurogroup decision of 20 February, that the Government commits that any privatisation that has evolved and is legitimate, and that the ongoing procedures, always within the legality and with our responsibility to monitor this process in the public interest, will, of course, evolve with the changes that are legitimate and consistent with the public interest. On this issue for regional airports, I am not going to judge whether the total price of 1.2 billion is what it should be or not. It's not my job as Minister of Finance to do that. That is why there is the HICP and legal procedures. But what I shall tell you is this: I have put a simple question to my counterparts in the European Union. I won't tell you who. You can imagine. You'd privatize or make a 40-year-old concession...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u90	It's different things, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u91	Of course it's different. It's a form of utilization of public property. Don't get involved in notebook. So I asked: Would you accept this concession for your regional airports, firstly, without a share that either the State or the municipalities hold - in the case of Germany, the Länder - secondly, with compulsory minimum investments in 1/4 of the total price and thirdly, without written commitments, namely development plans, on local economies around regional airports? The answer I received in all cases - and it was four or five - was no. They would not accept concessions under these conditions. This is not a question of confrontation between the government and the opposition. It's a matter, I think, of a national strategy. The government will continue this process. It is already in negotiation with our partners on this issue and I can assure you that as this negotiation closes in the next few days, this issue will also be closed. What are our criteria? These are what I mentioned. I'll mention it once more so I don't abuse the time. Firstly, investment must be higher. The commitment to 23.5 million investments in four years per airport is very low by me. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Secondly, there must be a share for the State, not because the state must play the role of the businessman, but because the state must retain an asset which can exploit it in the context of a development bank, a development vehicle, through leverage, in combination with development banks, such as the European Investment Bank, so that the spillovers, namely all synergies from this concession, from this use of this public property, are maximised. Thirdly, there must be clear commitments for the local economy. And fourthly, I would like to remind you of the anticipation of the earlier privatizations, the anticipated privatization moves that have ultimately proved to be disastrous even for the private, because they have fallen into the Council of State and the Competition Committee. The HICP has so far, unfortunately, offered contracts to the legal individuals who were unsafe. This has to change. You will see that as soon as the negotiation ends, the terms will change, the contract will become more positive on both the part of the public interest and the private sector. Finally, I would like to say that as an economist at the moment I have a problem with the idea that fourteen regional airports are being sold to the same company. I don't know any other country in the world that's happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Ignace, you have the floor, but I can assure you - I am frankly saying this - that the time is up to now. Beyond the three minutes, you'll be interrupted, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you insist that we do not agree with each other. We have thirty-nine total airports and the agreement has been reached for fourteen. So, if I understood correctly - and because I did not understand, please repeat it - are you in favour or against this new agreement? Secondly, if you are in favour, would you like - if I understood correctly again - to improve this agreement? And of course, you have also put some attention to it. Are you willing to move on? Will it be included in the package of the agreement? Anyway, make it clear, because really the strategy you are following is extremely foggy and you are confusing rather than helping us as National Representation, but also all those who are interested in us or have committed money to this investment. Minister, you do not even inform anyone from the National Representation of Major Issues, such as what we are discussing today. You have "done" the public, you have disbanded the market, you do not pay the public debts, everyone in the government whistle indifferently and are smuggled in every direction, without a trace of self-criticism, responsibility and consciousness of the crisis. The day before yesterday, you spoke about a tax on ATM withdrawals and you took him back in an hour. Unprecedented velocity, I have to say! Mr. Juncker, a well-known philhellene, describes you and the Prime Minister as trainees in open heart surgery. The newspaper "BILD" says the Prime Minister is angry with you. In the past few weeks, Mr. Tsipras replaced you in the negotiation, bringing Mr. Tsakaloto to your place. On the other hand, you said, trying to blackmail if I understood who and why I did not understand - that you recorded the Eurogroup meeting and then undoed it. Go to Riga and call you - let me - "Jogado, amateur and chasomer", characterizations of gravity for the Greek Minister of Finance of the Government. In the meantime, Minister, Greece is being misled. For the last four months, you have been signing, for the majority of them, as Minister, first of all decisions on movements outside the headquarters, while you have little to do with the administrative and legislative work of your Ministry, that is, the Ministry of Development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I searched for and found with my partners at "GENERAL" some data. You have signed four hundred three decisions, of which the two forty-five - over 60% - concern movements of managers mainly outside the home. More than fifty decisions relate to procedural administrative acts, another forty-three decisions relate to post-masters and thirty decisions concern working groups, etc. What's your government's work? I really don't understand. Your accountability in the House and you and the government as a whole is minimal to no one. I say this because I remember very well - and we remember all those who are here over and above the previous period - the voices and tensions of SYRIZA officials at the time, when a Minister dared to be absent from a timely question or from a parliamentary control procedure. Minister, please give us as specific answers as possible. Mr President, I would like to say something even more and to conclude with that. What I'm going to say has just fled yesterday and the truth is I'm having a hard time believing it. You have requested the disposal of PPC’s reserves and other listed public companies. Do you realize what you're asking for and where? You ask for money from listed companies, which have major works in progress, such as the construction of the Ptolemais plant or the projects with binding contracts. I am sure that you, especially as a university, are aware of this, and you realise that with these practices, that is to say by binding the cash available from companies listed and particularly from PPC, you are putting doubtful and at risk not only their investment programmes but also their own operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, it is clear that, unfortunately, the question about regional airports was clearly a pretext. Mr. Aggenakis wanted to buy against me. I am here every Thursday on all parliamentary checks from the day the House began its work. I do not think you or someone else have seen a Minister of Finance, who is in every Parliamentary control every Thursday, while I am in Greece. Unfortunately, you did not appreciate that. First of all, you said I'm not answering...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u96	It's your obligation. Do we have to appreciate your presence here? You don't do us a favor for being here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Ignace, please do not interrupt. Minister, go on, so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u98	...and, secondly, you wanted to use the sacred procedure of parliamentary control to take out a reason why it will be recorded and which was completely pre-formative and irrelevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The third question will be discussed with number 235/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Finance on borrowing from the International Monetary Fund, the "haircut" of the public debt and the possible participation of Greece in the Bank of BRICS countries. The Minister will answer Mr. Varoufakis. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u100	We will raise a number of major national issues, of the highest national importance, which we hear a hundred different opinions every day from different government and party factors, which you represent. We therefore call for serious clarification on the substance of the matter, first of all, of Greece's debt to the International Monetary Fund. We have heard you say to Lagard that we will pay it back in the bicentennial, for ever and ever. Of course, you said a moment ago that we do not want the institutions, we do not want the troika here and that we want to end with the troika and speak only with the European Commission. We read in the papers that the Prime Minister was taking calls to Lagard and to other players and said that we have no money to pay for the last instalment of the International Monetary Fund, and then Greece did pay that dose properly. Of course, we must say that the negotiations are not going to take place. When you call and say "I won't pay" and after two days you pay, you surely lose every concept of prestige and seriousness toward a loan-guarantee creditor whose only purpose is to take the country out of money and grab her fortune. We hear SYRIZA officials talking about a payment stop. We heard you the other day talking about payment in the end of the International Monetary Fund. We are therefore asking what you are doing with these firearms and those firearms, and what is the purpose of the government? Is she going to pay for the perpetrators or not to pay? What do you intend to do? How will you handle this situation? Of course, we have seen similar cases of this kind on several occasions and as far as the sketching of the memorandum was concerned by the Minister who was sitting next to you earlier, Mr Solublis, and as far as VAT and bank taxes are concerned. But I do not want to speak now, but to ask about specific things. The second question concerns a major issue. What about, finally, public debt? The game for SYRIZA, when it was talking about negotiation, was lost when it unleashed the debate on the right Greek demand to delete a large part of the Greek debt. If you want me to put it technically, Greece had to demand at least 50% of the debt to the European Central Bank. This should have demanded from loan-guaranteed creditors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Of course, the Greek problem is not economic, but it is mostly geopolitical. That is why, in the third part of my question, I refer to the issue of the Development Bank of the BRICS countries. We have received an invitation from the Russian State Secretary for Finance, and we ask whether you intend to go to this Bank, namely the Economic Forum in St Petersburg on 18-20 June, or whether the partners are forbidden to do so, as was the case on 9 May. It's done. Partners were forbidden on May 9th to go to Russian national celebrations in Moscow. This BRICS issue is a very important issue for us. Above economics, it is a geopolitical issue. The Government spokesman from the outset has made this issue down. Then, some other relevant ministers, such as Drasakis and the Army, reinstated it and finally appointed Mr Romeliotis as responsible for this debate, who is very bad for us, as he was director of the International Monetary Fund, namely the Bank's competitor who is going to set up the BRICS countries. It is therefore inappropriate to negotiate in this major national case. We are therefore calling, at first instance, for serious clarifications on these issues and we will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, the answer to the question of what is the government's purpose in terms of the major issue that has been mentioned - and which is really that - is the three words 'debt restructuring'? In 2010, the Greek public debt ceased to be helpful. This means "a state's bankruptcy", that is to say, not being able to serve its debt. Since then, we've been in the adventures. What happened in May 2010 and continues for five years? Something very simple happened. Europe, since it did not have the plan to respond to the crisis it started in 2008, nor the political will to make structural changes to address the root of evil, has tried to cover the problem by giving the biggest loan to human history to a state that could not serve its already existing loans, provided that a tight austerity that has reduced nominal incomes. Something like that obviously couldn't have been a happy ending. The result is that we are here. The result is that our government was elected to negotiate. That is why we have a very tough negotiation. If you want, indeed, to see what the views of the financial system and the international status of our Government are, you have nothing but to read the international press. You will see the way the Greek Government is systematically swept through, precisely because it has set as its main objective the restructuring of the Greek debt in the context of this negotiation. The International Monetary Fund has a very dark history in the past twenty-five years worldwide. An institution that started in 1944 with very positive prospects and very positive intentions, unfortunately ended up in almost complete unreliability in the mid-2000s. Its participation in the Greek programme - you know very well because it has happened, I am not going to go into it - has had some objectives that effectively dissociate Europe from the ability to look at itself in the mirror and be proud of the way in which it is facing the crisis. However, I must say: From the EUR 313 billion owed by the Greek State - most of which belong to the institutions - less than EUR 20 billion is our debt to the International Monetary Fund. I would like to say another thing, which I do not say as an alibi for the International Monetary Fund. If you wish, it is a criticism of the European Union. The International Monetary Fund is the only one of the three institutions that admitted that there has been a problem in the Greek programme since 2010 and then did a "mea cuulpa", if you remember. So you referred to Takis Romeliotis and I would like to refer to the face of Mr Romeliotis. Mr. Romeliotis was indeed Greece's representative at the International Monetary Fund at the time of 2010, when this unacceptable settlement of the Greek problem had evolved. Mr. Romeliotis, however, was also the one who, from the outset, warned the Greek Government that the Memorandum of Understanding 2010 was negative for Greece. He was the man who, in fact, also made a book about it. And it is very important, and it is a great strengthening of the Greek position, a person who was in the system to make public the fact that the International Monetary Fund itself infringed its own rules to participate in the Greek programme. Finally, I want to tell you about the BRICS Development Bank, to which you have referred. It is indeed a very important development at global level, not only for Greece. The only reason why you referred to the BRICS today and the invitation that BRICS made to the Greek Government to discuss the possible involvement of the Greek Government in the BRICS development bank is that we were the ones - the government of our own - who opened the dialogue with these countries, in order to engage in this kind of process. But I must tell you that such a development bank can play an ancillary role in Greece's development effort after the agreement we hope to have with the European partners very soon. He can't replace such an agreement. Anyone who believes that such an agreement can be replaced by a 'BRICS Development Bank' aid is simply not aware of the financial data currently on Greece. Finally, I want to say that we are part of the European family. The European crisis has boosted the Greek crisis and the Greek crisis in the European. It is our family topic, within Europe, which we must resolve in the context of negotiation within Europe. All our other relations with Russia, China, with the United States, with Singapore, with Japan, will always be done, in the interest of the country, as all the sovereign countries do. However, we will not find a solution to the problem of negotiating with our partners outside European institutions and outside the European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Cassidy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u104	I will begin with the case of BRICS and Russia you mentioned. We did not expect to open a debate - which was not opened by SYRIZA, it was initiated by the Russian Secretary of State for Finance - to address this major issue. For years now it has been the position of Golden Dawn that the solution of the Greek problem will come from a geostrategic shift towards Russia, and at the level of energy, at defence level, at the level of security, at the level of economy. So this is why we consider it major and not why SYRIZA, through his representative, ultimately disproved the Russian State Secretary for Finance. The question we asked about the BRICS was very specific. We asked how you plan to make this opening? Are we going to join the new development bank? Are we going to ask for funds? And if so, how many chapters? What will be the terms of our participation? How will development funding be ensured? We asked for technical issues to be analysed, which you did not do. This is as far as the BRICS is concerned. You said the IMF story was dark. That's right. But that is what you say here about internal consumption. As I said, when you went to Lagard, you said we'd pay them back in the months. A position similar to this is a position of nationally detrimental. The International Monetary Fund must leave the country because in which it was destroyed. We have infinite examples of countries that after the persecution, after the dismantling of debts to the International Monetary Fund and its departure, have developed. This must also be done with Greece, because the International Monetary Fund is a consistent loan shark - it is not a partner - which aims to - we have said it on several occasions - to take us out of money and then to cover our assets. You are the one who signed the extension of the loan contract, the loan contract with the English law that removes our country's immunities for its national sovereignty. Of course, this loan agreement never came to Parliament. We could talk a lot of time about how the negotiation should be done, because, as we know - we have said on several occasions - these tachographic threats of foreign factors - which are still being heard in international networks and in international fora, that the international economy will not be allegedly damaged by leaving Greece from the euro area - are threats which have nothing to do with reality. Let us remember the case of the American Bank Lehman Brothers, which, when it fell, lured the international economy into destruction. Imagine what would happen if a country came out of the Eurozone! However, because you are talking about "superior negotiation", it is not proud that the Prime Minister of Greece will appear before Junker and take faces, that the Prime Minister of Greece will take slaps in the eyes of jokes by the representative of international turf and give the image of carpoisespracter. This image that the Prime Minister gives is not an image of a serious state. It reminds me of the Venizelos who was hitting him in the head with the files before. And then SYRIZA was in the bars, but now quietly, because the Prime Minister of Greece gave this image when Yunker played with the tie - which showed the various photographs of the international media - and then gave this fox factor to the Prime Minister of Greece. Therefore, this is in no way a proud negotiation. You have to understand that you represent a country, you represent a nation and it requires more seriousness and not what is said here about internal consumption in this Chamber, in the channels and then when you go abroad, they are being dismantled. It's very easy, Minister, to ask for austerity and then be in your villa and drink your cocktail in front of your pool. It's harder to do what we ask for national resistance and then go to jail, because once I leave here in jail I'm going to a cell of two by two. It is a very different matter which I raise. The Golden Dawn you first used it - and you didn't get bad. At the beginning of the discussion with the loan-shaped partners you used the Golden Dawn as a fear and said - except for this stupid nazi argument you were saying, "Help us, compromise and find them with us, because then the others will come, the Golden Dawn, with which you will not find them." What you're saying is true. And foreign loan sharks know that when the Golden Dawn comes to things, there's no way they can find them with us. Unfortunately, however, your government continues its predecessors' memorial policy. I'm afraid so. As Samaras called "Zapopea" so Tsipras said "Thessalonica". None of this will happen, and this threat will indeed take place to foreign loan sharks, the nationalist movement of the Golden Dawn will indeed be gloated for a free and independent Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u105	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Cassidy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u108	You weren't in prison for your resistance to the memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u109	That's why I was alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u110	You were a criminal act, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u111	No, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u112	You were a criminal act, Mr. Cassidy. I don't have an opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u113	Let us not analyse this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u114	Please do not interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u115	You're not a judge!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u116	I'm not a judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u117	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u118	I'm not a judge, but you weren't in prison because of your resistance to the memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u119	I'm in jail for that. You sent us all to prison, because we're the only force of resistance to international turf!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u120	We didn't book you in prison, the Greek state closed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u121	I would ask you not to interrupt the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u122	That's why we're in jail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u123	Minister, do you have anything to say on this matter or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u124	Nothing at all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u125	He now became the highest judge of the Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u126	We are going to take the next time-consuming question, and here I would like to hear from the House. Three topical questions were raised, which were not discussed in turn, as planned, and that is why there is a fault of MPs and ministers - not Ministers, Minister. The Bureau is in a difficult position - I put it in introductory terms - as to what it is going to propose. I propose that we put forward this by Mr Army, who was on time and answered previous questions, but left because he was a Member of Parliament in the order of questions, as was on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u127	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u129	Yeah. And you're right. Mrs Fotou also asked the honourable Member, Mrs Marcus, for her consent, because she had a delay for a reason. It's understandable. So if I propose someone, there will be objections from other aspects. Let's get together. Three questions left, Mr. Army.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u130	We've been here for two hours!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u131	I am not saying that to collect discontent. I'm asking the House. What more democratic - I think we should decide what we are going to do! Based on the order...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u132	The one that follows now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u133	Will you let me explain? You have the list in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u134	All right, well, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u135	But now! It's created unnecessary tension. In other words, I could now nominate a speaker and finish it. I have put it in this House to reach agreement, so that there are no reactions or bitterness, etc. So, what do you suggest? What are you thinking? There are three questions: Mr Davakis, Mr Mavragani and Mrs Marcos. The ministers are here. For several reasons some were delayed. A hand to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u136	Let the process proceed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u137	Otherwise, I move on to the procedure and propose the timely questions, just as they were written. So in this order, now is Mrs Marcos' question to Mrs Fotou. Before we move on to Mrs Fotio's timely question, however, let me make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and students and four teachers from the 10th Municipal School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, allow me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u139	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u140	Because I have a meeting with ADEDY, with the executive, which has a strike gathering under the Ministry, and I have to go, I would just like to say that Mr Mavraani's question is reasonable and correct. The problem it raises is a real one and we will try to deal with it in the next few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Mavraani, do you consent to this or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u142	Of course, Mr President. I shall confine myself to making it easier for the Minister. My question related to the parallel insurance of SNEs and IKAs, which should be clarified. The Minister accepted it. So I make it easier for him to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much to the Minister but also to Mr Mavragani. So, next, it is the fourth question under number 215/13-5-2015 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki Mr.Akaterini Markos to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the future of the programme "The Harmonization of Family and Occupational Life" and the structures of children's protection of the municipalities. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mrs Theanos Fotio. Here, Mrs Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the "Harmonization of Family and Occupational Life" Programme is one of the most successful and efficient programmes in the field of social welfare. This is indeed a programme - breath for thousands of mothers with low incomes and for middle-income social strata and vulnerable social groups, since it allows them to participate equally in work and employment through the provision of services for the hospitality and care of children in public, but also in private children's stations and centres for creative employment. The coordinated efforts of local government representatives have also ensured, in the midst of a crisis, the continued funding of the programmes. In fact, the municipal child protection structures financed by the program increased from five hundred forty, which was in 2010, to a thousand eight hundred nineteen for 2014, offering positions from last year to over sixty - four thousand children. But, as you know, the Programme expires in August. We are already at the end of May and there is still no information on the expected start-up of the Programme. At the same time, and according to information that has seen the light of publicity, the funds to be made available for next year amount to about 70,000,000-80,000,000 just compared to the 188,000, which was for the year 2014-2015. In such a case, as you can see, the number of eligible mothers will be reduced to half. Furthermore, the sustainability of all these structures will be jeopardised, both public and private, but the jobs of those working. Right now we have nineteen and a half thousand jobs and we'll fall to half. We would therefore like you to tell us what your intentions are about the programme, when it will be called and what actions have so far been taken to ensure funding through the ESDP. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs Marcus. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u146	Mrs Marcus, I think the question you tabled is very reasonable. I'm rushing to correct some of the evidence, which might be quite rightly not well known. this will be much better for your question. In 2014-2015, seventy - four forty - four mothers were financed for seventy - nine thousand, about eighty thousand children in two thousand sixty - five structures. This is the picture right now and it's extremely interesting and great. In our view, this picture must not only be damaged or impaired, but widened. We believe that today there is a multitude of childcare facilities which provide those services that enable women to claim a place in the labour market. However, while this money relates to the employment of women, it actually strengthens the structures of the state which should be public and should be made either by the municipalities or by legal entities governed by public law. Today, however, there is an extensive grid of legal persons under private law, but also purely private stations and all these structures that you have said, that is, the two thousand sixty-five-five structures. So, firstly, it is not only our intention to evaluate all these structures and move on to those procedures which would have imposed both a single regime and a way of working all of those concerning children - and the small and medium-sized children, I mean CSRF and CSR normally - but we have also made an interministerial committee with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Economy and with our own Ministry where we are planning this future. Now, about what we are going to do directly, where the money was given and how much money was, I would like to say that it was 184 million eight hundred, say 185 million, was given 125 out of the NSRP and the rest were supplemented -60 million - from national funds. In other words, while the NSRF 2014-2020 for seven years anticipates 490 million... [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. After all, I will come back to the second part. Whilst the NSRF anticipated this funding of 70 million a year, 125 million were given ahead of it last year. Hello to them, they're happy! So will we. We have decided to give forward for the next two years to these 365 million structures by the ETUC. What does that mean? This means that the old government and the new government are running out of resources in three and a half years against the seven. This is done in consultation with the partners who told us - and we are discussing this these days - 'you can obviously do so and proceed with the forward disbursement'. At the same time, however, Mrs Marcos, if this major restructuring is not done, firstly, the money may be wasted and the work is not done properly. Secondly, if we do not do what we say today about the primary surpluses - what this government is fighting in parallel with the deletion of a large part of the debt - we will not all be able to achieve from national resources, which is all that can guarantee a substantial restructuring of all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mrs Marku, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Two weeks ago, a question had again been asked by a colleague on the same subject. You said the money was there. However, those who are involved in the programme do not have this picture at all because - you know - all the previous years, before the invitation was issued in June and July, had been consulted, there was relevant information and, in any case, there was a draft invitation. We don't have that for now. The Ministry is the responsible body to tell us what is going to happen with funding, because we must not forget that this programme has been designed for women and the strengthening of the employment of women. There are gaps in this area. I would also like to tell you that I have asked an earlier question about teachers, for example, who are unemployed during the application period - that is, in the summer - and do not work during the school year. These women, therefore, either receive the fewer levels of unemployment or are completely excluded, because they know they will work in September and do not get an unemployment card. In other words, they also save money for the state, but they lose other benefits. We must not forget, however, that the programme has been able to maintain a number of public and municipal welfare structures which would otherwise have been closed down and that jobs have also been maintained. Especially for the municipalities whose budgets have been dramatically cut in recent years, participation in the "Harmonisation" programme is an important help to continue to provide quality services for the benefit of all the citizens. In addition to ensuring the overall programme, we must also look at the details. What do I want to say here? If in an effort to increase positions, reduce the food supply, the effectiveness of the programme will also be reduced. This is mainly the case with the structures which will not be able to cope with, such as the AACS, which by definition are the most expensive, as you know. We would like your assessments on this, that is to say, if we are to reduce the feedingstuffs and reduce what has to do with the AACC. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] However, there is also a more general issue of pre-school education. For most children we know that the child station is the first point of socialization and of developing children's skills. That is why we have also proposed the creation of a single system of pre-school treatment for all children from 0 to 5 years old, open and free of charge. And I want you to tell me your opinion here too. By then, however, such targeted actions actually solve day-to-day problems. For example, how does a woman go to look for a job or go to work? I would like you to tell me, then, if your government every day claims the primacy of social sensitivity, when will you bring it? This is a basic condition. What will be the exact budget? If you have taken action at European level - why did you yourself say that this money, the largest percentage, at least last year, at least 125 million, was from the European Union - and when do you intend to start it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs Marcus. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Marcus, I don't think I understood the first part of the question. However, I will repeat it, because you have responded to a certain case of work, which you have done and which I have raised in the first part of the question. I said first, the money is secured. We are not going to reduce a single child and we are not going to close one of these structures. On the contrary, I said that we have a project, which we are already working on in a common way, which is directly and immediately linked to the two-year compulsory pre-school education programme, which is in our programme for education and which you will see very soon. Because today is an annual compulsory pre-school education. We will proceed to a two-year compulsory pre-school education. And all the rest of the years, we'll strengthen this whole pre-school treatment. So, Mrs Marcus, as you have said, the programmes were published in July and August. I would like to inform you that this year's programme, like all that concerns our fellow ministries, will be launched earlier at the end of June. I also told you that we have ensured the 365 million for two years of action and that everything else is added from national resources. I also explained to you in the previous answer that this is what we have consulted with the European Union to get it forward, just as the previous government took in front of the money it took. I think, I'm clean and there's no need for any concern. Don't worry. It's not a matter of sensitivity, it's a matter of the whole philosophy of the Left for pre-school education. It is a question of how training is to be done so that there is no privacy. It is a matter of great philosophy, which is exactly what we are on our way and on our way. So you're wrong. You should know that they will work and we will improve the way in which they operate by means of a great deal of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Allow me to make a statement before we make the next and last timely question. Congressman I Thessaloniki Mr. Konstantinos Giulekas sent a letter to the President of the Parliament calling for a short-day absence abroad for a transition to Constantinople from Friday, May 29, 2015 to Monday, June 1, 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u152	The House approved the requested permission. We move to the last topical question, the seventh with number 197/8-5-2015, a topical question from the MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr. Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the New Sparta Museum. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I will quickly read the text of the timeliness question, which says: Monotoni, but also permanently pending, has now become the case called "New Archaeological Museum of Sparta". Designs and political decisions along with announcements of a series of government, but also of self-government bodies, stumblings, programming contracts, changes in designs, involvements and subsequent withdrawals of Foundations with donations (Nigorian Foundation), interventions of cultural and archaeological associations of the city, hopes, expectations and moral arguments invoked by the historic past for Sparta's dominance in antiquity are concise, Minister, some of the digits that make up the present landscape, but also the point that today is a vision that remains constantly up-to-date and demanded by all Laconies and not only. Meanwhile, Community programmes are changing and going with the governments, various museums have already become a reality throughout the country - without mentioning the historical weight of the areas hosted and the feasibility of their establishment - and the issue of the New Sparta Museum remains a steadfast and unfortunately doubtful, except for a expropriated plot with a skeleton building at the entrance of the city. This structure, the work of Takis Zenetos, the well-known architect, who welcomes the visitor to the entrance of the city, as much as any Lakonas has become accustomed to, is for all of us a contagious and lasting wound to the body of our historical memory. In conclusion, Minister, what is the current situation in the process of establishing a New Museum in Sparta? What is the design of the new political leadership of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs to find solutions and resources for the construction of a New Archaeological Museum in Sparta? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the honourable Member from Laconia for giving me the opportunity to look at the archives of the Ministry's services, to see with surprise a history of oligoria, of abstraction and possibly some aspects that reach the limits of the scandal. I am not saying that it is a scandal, but it is a story that is about fourteen to fifteen years from the time the expropriation of this land was made, which is, of course, in archaeological zone I. It's a ruined factory, the old factories of "CHIMOFIX" - I'm telling you about the briefing of colleagues, you know them - where the Bulldozers entered, they demolished what had to be demolished, but this great plot had to be excavated. This excavation took almost fifteen years. Studies and the intention of prefectures, funds found, districts, mayors, local parliamentarians and ministries for fifteen years have only reached one veterinary programme. There's not even a architectural study, there's nothing. There is a advance, necessary, but at the moment, what we have in our hands is an up-to-date veterinary programme, which, from the five and a half thousand square metres in 2004, has reached eleven thousand square meters. We expect this dossier from the tax office to come to the Directorate-General, to be introduced into the Museum Council and approved. From there on opens the way to an international competition for a great museum, bright, worthy of a name of enormous international importance, able to welcome the famous mosaic of Europe's Grabishment, the portrayal of Europe itself, which is being hidden and kept at the moment. And from there on, let's see how we find a financial programme, a financial instrument. I don't know if we're gonna be able to make it through the ETUC, the new ESDP, because there's not even the study to incorporate it, while we'd be integrating it now. However, you have given me the opportunity to see how slow political leaderships and services work and how an initially mistaken - perhaps perhaps - choice to become a huge building complex in an archaeological site where a long and difficult excavation had to be done has gone since 2004, starting this thing to date. There's at least been the excavation. We have the animal husbandry programme, and we have nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Davakis, before you take the floor, allow me a brief announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the private School of Pedagogical Piraeus. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, as the Minister has said, it is indeed a good thing that for a decade, 15 years, an issue that continues, which is, I would say, a challenge to our historical memory and sensitivity as representatives of the Greek people, but also as citizens above all, lies in this very perfect situation. Indeed, as you said, some specific archaeological work has been done by the Department of Antiquities of Laconia, an address distinguished for quality, adequacy and self-determination, I would say, of duty in terms of both archaeological and technical staff. In addition, however, Minister, I feel that there are many stumbling blocks or, I would say, many of the involvements of other institutions, which have turned everyone who wants to deal with the issue called the Sparta Museum into a stumbling blocker of all these processes. And I explain: Study, premeditated by a Prefecture Council on 21 April 2010 of the expelled and abolished by 'Kalikaratis' of the prefecture for the Museum of Sparta. Homospheric. Nothing happened. He didn't move on. A Programming Contract on 27 August 2010, as I told you, between the Ministry and Ms. Mendoni, the recurring Secretary-General, who was abrogated, with a total budget of EUR 1,200,000, including VAT, of 12 months with a time of implementation of the study six months. That was in 2010. Five years ago. He didn't move on. And we come to a second programming agreement on 21 March 2012 - two years later - of the District Administrator, Mr. Tatoulis, with Mrs. Mendoni, with a total budget of 2,785 000 and a duration of twenty-four months - twice as much time as ten months. And that hasn't moved on yet. And we have amended the second programming contract, from the 1-3/2012, which I mentioned to you on 16 January 2015, three, four months ago. This changes in thirty months the duration of the contract with the start of the signature. Is thirty months from January 2015, two and a half years ahead or not? Anyone involved must have divining skills in order to overcome the various issues that we have before us and for which I think we cannot be informed immediately and genuinely. The questions arise from a simple Member of Parliament to the Government, to the executive, who is currently called upon to answer, in the theoretical sense: The synergy of the Ministry of Culture throughout this process, Minister? I would like you to note this in order to start a new start. The Peloponnese Region must be assisted, since so far the issue has been pending in its hands. I remember the words of the current Regional Director, Mr Tatoulis, that there can be no programme contract unless there is a project file. Is there a project file? I feel there should be no record of the project. The Museums Directorate has expressed itself on this matter, the matter so far and what are included in the two programming contracts signed between your Ministry - I am not saying about you - and the Peloponnese Region? Is it a question of the regions finally becoming a museum? And if it is a matter of the regions, because now the regional programmes are in the regions and the money is there, you must help at a work rate and at the suggestions of yours. The special addresses will be expressed? They must be expressed. In other words, you must call for involvement of your own - and I see the sensitivity you have - of services with what is being done in the region. The region cannot make a programme contract to build a temple, for example, with the Department of Byzantine Antiquities, the region and you and the same with a museum. These are issues where I feel the excellent staff of the Ministry of Culture should be involved. And I repeat: Project file three, four years later is there? I believe that the state, the Ministry of Culture, must now be assisted to the region in order to get the whole thing out of the way or to move forward. Unless things go well and we don't know that. I don't want to tell you what the local society says about this case. We'll all go to the museum and museum in a little bit. It won't have happened in Sparta. All the other things, 'Nicomachia Ethics' - let's say that, to remember Aristotle - and everything else is another textual issue. We must finally understand that it is a disgrace to the Greek culture and the cultural stock that this country has and it is a shame to pity when Sparta does not have a museum, when the then Greek state of 1875 decided that the first archaeological museum in the country should be in Sparta. And we have the Museum of Sparta of 1875, which, of course, is in another situation today. Minister, I would like a fresh start. Help the Peloponnese Region to proceed with suggestions, with the technical knowledge, with the scientific knowledge that your Ministry has in order to proceed with the case and not to come back a while later to ask you questions on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u158	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u159	Mr Davakis, in the case of the Sparta Museum you raise a major issue of relations between the central government and the regions. There are some problems with regard to some people in the regions, who are attempting by pass, bypassing the central government. This sometimes has to be done, because we have to have decentralised governance. Sometimes, however, it must not be because there is no know-how in regional government to make major-scale projects or projects which are required to be part of national planning. We're not a federation with autonomous states. We are a single national territory and in some things of major importance, such as transport or culture, there must be no decentralisation. Culture has a ministry and a central agency. There is no decentralisation in culture and fortunately. Because Article 24 of the Constitution requires uniform treatment and protection and management of the natural and anthropogenic environment, namely cultural heritage. In this direction over recent years, some regional authorities, who have also legitimate ambition and funds, have been trying to design and implement some things. We often have achievements. Sometimes we have runways and delays. From my research in the case of the Sparta Museum and which you know much better than you, we obviously have such a delay, a distance of actions and declarations and a tragic loss of time. For ten to fifteen years, Sparta cannot even have a study for her museum. I consider this to be an exemplary case of national uncertainty, for which everyone is to blame. It's the "coarseness of Laceymon" From that point on, the regional and local authorities must understand that some things go beyond their powers and their boo and must cooperate with the central government. The central government should understand that it should be close to the region and help with all its powers, which are often no longer the financial resources, but the know-how and the national plan. They must understand that in the other regions too. And I'm glad you're giving me this opportunity. In the case of Sparta now, to close, we have the following: We are waiting for the file on the veterinary programme, which will come within the days. I would be happy to inform you and all the members of the Laconia Prefecture of where it is located. The only thing we can do from there on, as a Ministry, is the Museums Directorate to introduce the dossier to the National Council of Museums, which will approve this veterinary programme and pave the way for an international architectural competition. A museum, of such scale and of such importance, must be made with such specifications. The key word is how to find a financial framework that supports this programme. And I fully agree with you that the Sparta Museum can be, not only the sub-mobile, but the locomotive for Laconia's development take-off. I hope you'll be with us in every effort we make as government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u160	Is it the Museums Council that was abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u161	No Council of Museums has ever been abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the topical and urgent debate and before entering the agenda for legislative work, we will be adjourned for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. We enter the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Publishing a payment order for claims by an administrative contract concluded in the context of a trade transaction". I propose that articles and amendments be discussed as one section, in accordance with Rule 103(3) of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind the House that the debate and vote on the articles are taken in turn and in accordance with Rule 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 102(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure, inclusion in the list of speakers in the debate may be requested from the beginning of the debate on this Rule until the end of the speech of the fourth in turn. Records made after the end of the speech of the fourth speaker and until the conclusion of the originals of each article are valid only as a secondary one, which are given by the abbreviations of paragraph 3 of this Rule (Rule 102(2) of the Rules of Procedure). The right of second-guessment in the written debate is only those who have taken the lead and, if they so request, until the end of the phase of second-handness of each article, on the basis of Rule 102(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The pleas in law referred to in Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure are governed by Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I would remind the House that the speaking time of Members in accordance with Rule 103 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure cannot exceed four minutes of the time for vocabulary and two minutes of the time for denology (Rule 103(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). In this debate the Ministers and Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups may speak at any time, for four minutes of the hour the first time and for three minutes of the next time. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups shall be entitled to speak for four minutes in the first time and for three minutes to two more times under Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure. If exceptionally the debate takes place according to articles, the speaking time mentioned above is doubled. The House shall decide, on a proposal from the President, to further increase the speaking time in accordance with Rule 103(3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u165	Do you want the floor, Minister? Before the position of the rapporteurs begin, I will give the floor to the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Paradise. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to tire you by repeating yesterday's debate. I would just remind you that there was a broad consensus and a vote in principle. As far as I understand it, this is a tradition of Parliament, of broad consensus and of opposition in some bills that echo the views of more parties. I would therefore remind you that the bill has now been drawn up on the basis of some legal corrections, which have emerged from the debate in the committee and were announced yesterday and tabled. Today I would like to add - to announce, to read, if you like - the legal corrections that have arisen since yesterday's debate on the principle of registration. I would remind you, therefore, that the recasting of the title of the law was decided yesterday to add the words 'and other provisions', precisely because at least one article was added yesterday as an amendment to me and a third article concerning the entry into force of the law. In addition, apart from the title, we have a small addition at the end of the second paragraph of Article 272C of Article 272C, where after the end of the subparagraph of Article 272C, which refers to preventive control, i.e. after the words 'preventive control', the three words 'where provided' are added, so that there is no misunderstanding on the basis of the fact that preventive control is not provided in all cases. Finally, the last article of the draft law - it is referred to as Article 2 and it will probably take number 3 after acceptance of the amendment - is recast as follows: ‘The provisions of Article 1 shall enter into force on 16 September 2015. The provisions of the other Articles shall enter into force on the date of publication of this Law in the Official Journal of the Government unless otherwise specified in individual provisions.’ I would remind you that an amendment of my own, which is entirely relevant to the subject-matter of the law, has also been tabled. I mean, it regulates matters of administrative justice. It is added as Article 2 of the law - Article 1 - is the whole regulation on the transposition of the directive - and I think that, as I said yesterday, it is a rather technical and simple regulation, which extends the powers of the courts so that it is not just Athens with the relevant competence, which of course also has a special burden on its courts. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Minister. The Minutes will, of course, be presented with what you have just said and will be distributed to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u168	Before we went to the first rapporteur, Mr Skouma, the Deputy Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Ioannis Panousis, spoke. Minister, two minutes is enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u169	Just a minute, Mr President, I'm going to need a minute. If I may be allowed by this House, this is the amendment on postponing the army of the successors to the Greek police, police officers and officers, who had postponed their registration, because of the laws of 2013 and 2014, and are now being called upon to join forces. So we have made a provision that, until they are introduced into the schools that have succeeded, there should be a postponement of military service. Because it would be strange for someone to have succeeded at the Officers' School and found a veteran, while in three months they'll be invited to go back to school to serve. That is what I wanted to explain, that is, both the substance and the need to deal with this matter quickly, because they will be recruited in a few days' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are going to the parties' rapporteurs, with Mr Athanasio Scum first speaker on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in yesterday's debate, I believe that a very rich and fruitful debate has taken place, which I think from the previous debate in the committee has made many improvements and corrections which the Minister has accepted. I think that the final text, as it is put forward, but also the amendment, which does not in itself concern the draft law, but improves the possibility in terms of procedural requirements for the issues it raises, is positive. As far as the articles of the draft law, as you know, are concerned, they are added to the Code of Administrative Procedure, after Article 272, nine articles and they are proposed to be voted on and the conditions for issuing a payment order are laid down, as we mentioned in the previous debate. Subsequently, the material and local competence, and with regard to the material competence, has been identified, the Minister in detail, that in relation to the initial introduction of the text, it is now proposed that the competence be in the Administrative Court instead of the Court of First Instance, as originally was. As far as this provision is concerned, I believe that, from all sides and from the bodies, from the judicial associations and from the Association of Administrative Judges and from the Union of Judiciary officials of the Council of State and from the Assembly of the Bar Association, this proposal was unanimous, but also from fellow Members who were put in this direction. With regard to the submission and signature of the request for payment order, the provisions of Article 27 of the Code of Administrative Procedure shall apply, and there shall be an inadmissible penalty for payment of a judicial act and the provisions of Article 274 of the Code of Administrative Procedure shall apply accordingly with the legal improvement - correction added, for the time in which it was lodged. The application must contain the information referred to in Article 45 of the Code of Administrative Procedure, the number of the Tax Register and the full information on the application for a payment order and, of course, the request for the issue and the cause and exact amount, by capital and interest. All documents showing the claim and the amount of the claim must also be attached to the application. A copy of the application shall be communicated to the counterparty within eight days of its deposit and, of course, to the legal improvement submitted by the Minister, under the responsibility of the applicant, who shall provide the court with the proof of service. As the payment order, the counterparty, the public or the legal person governed by public law, must present to the court's secretariat - and the relevant innovation of these arrangements - a certificate of the agency responsible for clearing and issuing a payment order, stating whether or not the result of the prudential review is complete. If this time-limit is extended, it is presumed that preventive control has been completed and that it has proved positive. We note here that, following proposals by bodies and Members and from the debate as it has evolved, the Minister for the improvement of the provisions added that, if it is stated in the statement that preventive control continues, it is also presumed in this case that a positive audit has been carried out and the payment order is issued. This presumption is fighting. In other words, it may be overturned by an opposition, which may include the reason for opposition to the late issue of that certificate, for the failure to complete the preventive or negative control. The payment order shall be issued, if the conditions are met, in formal and substantive terms, within sixty days of the lodging of the service attestation or after the end of the period for lodging the certificate. As regards the content of the payment order, it contains a reminder to the person who is entitled to challenge within 30 days. The payment order shall be served on the person concerned within 30 days of its adoption. If that time-limit has elapsed, the order for payment shall automatically cease to be valid. If the counterparty is the public, the payment order shall be served on the Minister of Finance within the same time limit. The performance report shall, of course, be submitted within the same time limit to the Court's Registry, which issued the order for payment. The payment order shall be enforceable and shall not be executed before the expiry of the period of opposition referred to. The formal and effective legality of the order for payment, i.e. the requirement itself, may be challenged for its jurisdiction to be determined in accordance with the general provisions of national law on the matter to be brought before a court, i.e. the administrative court, which may, in accordance with the procedure laid down, suspend its enforcement until a final decision on the opposition has been adopted. Furthermore, the issues of the opposition and of the application for suspension and the applicable provisions during the proceedings shall be settled and the articles of the administrative procedure referred to in the main proceedings shall be applied accordingly. The limits of the court's control shall also be laid down. Here, I would like to point out that these provisions have also been dealt with and provided for by the Minister of State for the purpose of adopting the remedial proposals made, both for the time in which the opposition is to be heard, in order to be heard in a time which is no longer than six months from the lodging of the opposition, and for the time in which the statements are now entered by the provisions in force, i.e. three days. In other words, in accordance with the general provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Finally, I would like to say that the omission of the obligor to exercise the anticipated opposition within 30 days of the delivery of the payment order or any resignation thereof from the opposition already brought about by the undertaking of a specific procedural act and only makes the order of payment inadmissible by admissibility for those reasons, in particular, provided for in Article 101 next of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Finally, in relation to the limitation, the performance of the payment order is provided for as a breakthrough for a declaration of limitation, while in the event of its cancellation, the limitation is deemed to have been suspended from its service until a final decision on the opposition has been published. Of course, I would like to say that a model payment order is set. Its content is determined by the General Commissioner of the Regular Administrative Courts, so that there is a single model for all the courts in the country. It has emerged from all the debate that this regulation and the draft law are not, as some colleagues have said, a Memorandum of Understanding, but implementation and introduction of a European directive into national law. The need for regulation with these provisions is clear in order to satisfy quickly established requirements against public and legal persons governed by public law resulting from administrative contracts and to satisfy directly and quickly small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly. On this basis, we are proposing the adoption of the bill on articles, as amended and improved by the relevant interventions of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Skuma. The rapporteur, Mr Athanasios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I shall speak from my seat, Mr President, because I do not have much to say. We ran out of the thing yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u174	As you think.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u175	After the improvements made by the Minister - many of them are also colleagues' comments - I believe that an almost perfect piece of legislation has been made. Therefore, as I said yesterday, the New Democracy is voting in favour of the bill. Of course, I had a reservation on the matter of jurisdiction of the court. The original draft provided for the Court of First Instance. Since the judicial associations and most colleagues have said that they have to go to the court, we also agree on the improvement made by the Minister. With regard to General Number 157 and Special Number 13, tabled on 25-5-2015, the Minister of Justice's amendment, as it was limited, we agree and propose that it be accepted. The amendment brought by the Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr Panosis, is also correct. If he didn't, we'd have a big problem. That's absolutely right. I would just like to refer to one point, so that there is no doubt - I am not addressing my legal colleagues, but to the non-legislators - as regards what was said yesterday, namely that the Supreme Special Court has resolved the dispute regarding the jurisdiction of the court in order to order payment and said that the civil courts are responsible. I said this in a summary yesterday, and I had read the order a few days ago when I was in committee. So I tell you that the Supreme Special Court did not say such a thing. If you want, so you don't have any doubts, I'll explain. The Supreme Special Court shall be the Supreme Court referred to in Article 100 of the Constitution, which shall resolve disputes between civil and administrative courts. What happened in this case? The Supreme Special Court, not to tell which court the jurisdiction, is subject to that difference, i.e. if it falls within the jurisdiction of the civil or administrative courts. He said, however, that the court examining the execution of a judgment that came out with the diagnostic trial - that is to say, the trial in which the requirement is found, is called a diagnostic trial - when we are adjourning against execution, it must be the same court, the same procedure, which will be considered. He can't go to another court. He had only to judge which court is competent to settle the dispute. He said that if the diagnosed trial - that is, the specific issue of a payment order - was taken out by the civil courts, the civil courts would also judge in the execution trial - the opposition in particular - whether or not it had competence. That's what he judged. He did not say that the Supreme Special Court, as was wrongly said yesterday, solved the matter and that he is responsible for the civil courts. I have the decision of the Supreme Special Court. I'll testify to it in the Minutes for anyone who's interested in reading it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos Athanasios, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. The floor is given by the Special Rapporteur of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Miss Sveroni - Chondosios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. And I don't have much to say. Already, I developed our positions yesterday. Today, I will only start the amendments tabled. The first day I heard the first sitting of this House, during which the President spoke, if I understood correctly, what he said is that late amendments - what has been done in the past - will not be accepted. So far, of course, we have seen several delayed amendments coming. That's what makes us tempted to say otherwise it's in the words and otherwise it's in the plays. The standing position of the Golden Dawn is in late amendments to say 'no'. I am struck by this, Minister, because, in fact, as far as an amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure is concerned, we are talking about issuing a payment order for claims under an administrative contract, that is, what is stated in the order of payment - of the administrative courts. My question is: Since it had to do with the administrative courts, why did it have to come not only with an amendment but also with a late amendment? Because this is all part of the same context. It's not something that came up right now. We were dealing with provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure. For this reason alone, in order to be clear about what we say and believe - at least we, while the President has said otherwise, are going to vote 'no' in practice. As regards the second amendment, this amendment refers to children, to successful students, students, who successfully passed their examinations and were enrolled in the Schools of Police and Police. I would like to say that these children have nothing to do with them, because apart from the tsunami that brought the memorandum, they have unfortunately been taken too, so they are successful, but they cannot be registered in their schools. Because among the other cuts that have been made, there have also been cutbacks in the collectors' Schools, police officers and police officers. Of course, there have also been cutbacks in the Schools of the Armed Forces, the productive schools. Of course, for these schools, there was another kind of provision, namely to reduce the number of importers. Here, it is not only that the number of importers has decreased, but also the successors of these years are successful, but it is "expected" until the next year or the following year, so that they can be registered in schools. You understand that this is very tragic for children themselves and for their families, just from this fact. I don't count the second one that comes and says: "Now, you can't reasonably, even though you're successful, go to your schools because that's how we decide with the Memorandum Laws. Nevertheless, we invite you to join the Army." At least since then, the provision had to be made, from the previous ones, since they said that those who succeeded in those years would not be able to register directly in those schools. In Greece, however, we are the most often of the foot and "what we are anticipating now". That is why we have come, as I said yesterday, to vote for a law which is five pages and the amendments to that law are five volumes. I see this goes on. But these side-effects of memoranda cannot be left on the back of some families and some children. For this reason, as far as the second amendment is concerned, it concerns those who are successful in the Schools of Police and Police, even though it is late, so that you do not say 'all else you are doing in the works', we will say 'yes'. We will vote on this amendment. For the rest, unfortunately, I referred to yesterday in detail and said that this legislation should now be done on the basis of a European order. Since we are a European country, since we are a European state, we must move in some areas and some issues in the same way. Greece, of course, is usually one of the last countries to change its legal status according to the European Union's directives, in advance. Here we had to adapt the legislation of the Greek state, according to what Europe demands, and for the reasons we have said, namely that a party to trade with the State, with the State, with legal persons governed by public law, has the possibility of having a short, rapid procedure, having a judicial decision in its hands, has the title of enforceable, that is to say, in order to be able to shake, fear, something to try to do from this great monster, which is said in public. And I say "father" because you know, it sounds like the public doesn't pay because it doesn't have money. Now he doesn't have any money, but when he had money, unfortunately, the public wasn't always one of the well-paid. Most times he was a malicious payer. That is exactly what the President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamanis, said yesterday, namely that the local counterparties with the public have also received. And I imagine it's Mr. Kaklamanis' experience from the time he was in the Municipality of Athenians, it's not now. That means that it is an excuse for us to say that, you know, the state coral now is empty and has no. We are very sorry, however, because the draft law reminds us of a memorandum. I was not a Member of Parliament, of course, when the memorandum was passed, but I was listening and watching that with an article all the provisions were passed. We have some reservations which we said yesterday. With regard to the preventive control to be carried out, do you know what this shows? We say that if a month is spent and preventive control is not completed where necessary, there is a fighting presumption. What does that mean? There's a fighting presumption, which means that a payment order is issued. It is issued and offended by the public at opposition. For what? What now has the result of preventive control in his hands. What does that mean? Firstly, that the rapid process is almost going on. You're gonna tell me, shouldn't there be a defense? I had to. But that means there's a job, not just for the judge, but for the court. We should take into account what I said yesterday when we make a piece of legislation and say that it must go ahead if there is all the rest of the infrastructure. There are the courts, as they must be? Courts are not just buildings. Is there the logistics infrastructure? Is there the inspiring stuff? Are there the secretaries, anyway? The judge is a judge, but we all know that a court and a judge without secretaries cannot proceed, no matter how much we talk about speeding up justice. That is why we have had our reservations. But, unfortunately, I see - because I told you about the memorandum - that this draft law also has two articles. Article one, which contains all the amended articles, in 272 A', B', C', D', Z', and in Article 2, in which Article 2 says when the law will enter into force. And if they were differently numbered and there were no 1 and 2 and there were regular articles, we could say yes to someone. Now, for all these reasons that I have developed to you, we now have to say'residents' and some articles in which we believe we should say 'yes'. Nevertheless, I wish we could disprove and succeed this system. In Greece, however - you know at least the lawyers and all the other politicians - we do not suffer from legislation. We have one of the world's most democratic constitutions, we have one of the most progressively criminal law systems. Generally speaking, our legal system is governed by a strong democratic feeling. Still, we're in a lot of trouble, because it's not just the law. Laws are an empty letter when we don't have all the other infrastructure. We say that it is in Europe as well. In Europe, however, we must be ashamed of ourselves. We all went to some courts. Even in the Albanian courts to go, we see that they are a long way from our own courts. There are courts in the region. Inside this is the building of Larissa, which has been built since the splendid seven years, and since then nothing has been done at all. They cannot, therefore, in such a structure that is all cramped up on each other, when parts of this logistic infrastructure are missing and when there is no inspiring material, the laws are themselves to operate. They also need those who will implement the laws. And that's where I think we're remaining. I wish, Minister, next time you could bring in other things or do some other things. First start with the courts and then start legislating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u178	Thank you. Before we move to the next special rapporteur, Mr Christina Tachiau, I have a statement to make to this House. In the meantime, come to Stepma, Mrs. Tachiau. The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, National Defence, Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Ministers for Home Affairs and Energy, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Financial, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, State of the Fight against Corruption, Environment and Energy, Foreign Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Social Solidarity, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, National Defence, Culture, Education and Religion, Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Foreign Affairs, Economic, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Social Solidarity, Health and the State Secretarys of Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religious Development, Education and Religion, and Refugees of the European Union, have made a contribution to the European Union's "Reconstruction and Reconstruction" project of the Union's Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Union's Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Union's Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Union's of the Union's of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction of the Reconstruction and Reconstruction and Reconstruction Here you go, Mrs. Tachiau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u180	Mrs Tachiau, the Minister asked for a second intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u181	I can wait for Mrs. Tachiau to finish because she's standing and after she's done giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u182	Good. Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since the first debate we have already talked about the correct amendment to the draft law, in our view. These proposals were also proposals from the river. We consider our cooperative co-legislative position and constructive opposition to it in the right direction. In the end, I will take advantage of the step taken to make a more general point and an appeal for the future in this respect. In this draft law we have our positive approach as a whole, but we insist more on the condition of the unquestionable requirement. It is something we are afraid of, that is to say, how the conditions set for the undoubted requirement are demonstrated and we said that we want the law to be clear, so that there is no misunderstanding, so that it is towards the citizens' actual service. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] With this bill, we want to overcome the technical problems of issuing payment orders by the civil courts, to create competence for the administrative judges quite rightly. In this context, it makes no sense to make the conditions difficult. That is why, if we insist on something, it is because we believe that we should make it easier, that we are in a right direction. As far as preventive control is concerned, where it facilitates things to 272 C, we would also like to see 272 A'. We believe that this is how the meaning and the typical part will be well-intentioned. For paragraph 4 of 272 C on the deposit of the judicial record, it is correct to testify, not with the filing of the application, but at the end of the thirty days. Therefore, the private investor will have the opportunity to know the result and may abstain from the procedure in the event of a negative result. We believe it to be in the right direction. Of course, it must be said that the public, as a counterparty, should submit the result of the prudential review to the secretariat where the application was submitted. If, in other words, the application was lodged with the Administrative Court of Veroia, which is owned by the Administrative Court of Thessaloniki, the State should also submit the result of the prudential review and, where appropriate, a memorandum or a note at the Registry of the Administrative Court of Veroia, namely that of the deposit. Thus, the applicant will really be served and the forecast will be consistent with that of the deposit. There, therefore, referred to in paragraph 5 of paragraph 272C: ‘According to the Court’s Registry, the application must be inserted within 30 days of the date of notification of the application’. We will not insist more on preventive control. We've been through a little bit. We also want to point out and emphasise once again that the great and real problem that exists is the question of forced execution against the public. Giving enforceable titles, but deaf, it's problematic, it's judiciary protection. The n.e.c. 17151951, Article 19 provides that enforcement of judgments in administrative disputes against legal persons shall be suspended until such time as they become irrevocable. That should be amended. Enforceabled securities, to be issued under this procedure and after the opposition has been heard, shall be excluded from the obligation of irrevocable judgment. I would also like to stress that these instruments are the instruments - the instrument of judicial protection, the acquisition of a enforcer's title - to act as a deterrent and counter-incident from unjustified non-payment of contractual commitments. We need to change the attitude, especially that of the public. It must become a more public-friendly, more accessible, more reliable trader, pay on the basis of his contractual commitments primarily and not consider the courts to be a legitimate reason for delay. The purpose of the law must be to treat the public in its commercial transactions, just like its counterparty. That's justice. That's equivalency. I don't want to add anything else to this law. However, I am taking this opportunity to appeal to the Government and the Minister for Justice: it is forbidden to put to debate and vote many different articles. It's a distortion of legislative work. It is also an appeal from Members of all the parties. This bill may have had no appalling impact on the substance of the legislation, but in previous bills it was not good for the person shown by the government. If it is once declarable that the laws have articles that are irrelevant to each other, then it is multiplely declarable that only one article contains two, three and thirteen unsolved arrangements, as had been done in the prison bill, where we actually saw some articles, which were from where to start and where to finish. They were adjusting a lot of different things to each other. Of course, the Bureau has a very important role and responsibility. The people who vote for us consider suspects and evil MPs. They also consider governments to be suspicious and wicked, who pass bills with titles unrelated and under the pretext of 'the other provisions'. At the end of the day we see how many unrelated things are being regulated, regardless of issues. In this way all Members are committed and blackmailed to vote or not to vote for an article, because they like the first paragraph that regulates another issue, they do not like the other one, which regulates another issue. There is a very serious problem and distortion. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I wanted to say something about the amendments, and I forgot about it. I'd like another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u184	You have time, Mrs. Tachiau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u185	I didn't even look at the time this time! As far as the amendments are concerned, we will vote on both of them, the first for reasons of equality, the second because it comes to regulating a number of issues which need to be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Tachiau, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u187	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u188	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u189	Two brief explanations I would like to make and a little comment on the amendments, which are incorporated into this law. I would like to say first of all that I do not think we will have a problem because of the lack of secretaries and because of the introduction of this legislation. There are, of course, shortcomings in staffing and staffing, which also concern judicial officers. However, this legislation leads to a reduction in work rather than an addition to work, if compared to the regular procedure, which would be foreseen without it. I would also like to say to Mrs Tachiau that in the case of the provision of a statement of objections, the application for a payment order, the Court of First Instance and not the Court of Appeal, the Court of First Instance will not be charged with any work, because she becomes a mere recipient of the statement and immediately forwards the file, which she is not handling at all, to the Court of Appeal and, therefore, the case is not the case. Otherwise, as far as we have an article, which includes more individual articles introduced into the Code of Administrative Procedure, this is a technical issue. That is, an article of the Code of Administrative Procedure is what changes and is analysed in more individual regulations. That's why he was chosen to join a single number. After all, the debate so far had shown that there were no significant differences between Members, where some articles were welcome and others treated as problematic. The debate has barely shown that the remarks have all been constructive and have in fact been incorporated. That is why, so far, there has been no reason - and not just that it had not appeared, there has been no reason - to analyse Article 1 in more. As far as the amendments and, in particular, the amendment which I have tabled, and which I have tabled, concerning the jurisdiction of courts, i.e. they must also have administrative jurisdiction in the region and not just Athens, I should like to respond to the fact that the reason for the late submission is simple. Lately he was informed of the Ministry, I was aware of the problem. The issue was entirely relevant to the subject matter of the bill. It was again a matter of administrative justice. It was an open problem, and it seemed to me that because of its relevance I can ask to join the bill. You are right that in general there should not be completely irrelevant provisions with the main content of a bill. I must also inform you that in many cases the President of Parliament has acted improperly on this point, in relation to amendments or regulations which are introduced. And the ministers are well aware of that. You, of course, in the House, see what is finally going on. Finally, with regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Panoussis, he has already produced a document with a legislative improvement. Of course, this amendment is signed by Mr. Panousis, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Quiet and myself. If I have the Bureau's permission, I can read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u190	Please, Minister, read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much. "The ranking in the Armed Forces of the successful soldiers in the previous cases is postponed from the date of issue of the paintings of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs until December 31st of the year of classification in the relevant Greek Police Schools. In order to grant the postponement, soldiers shall submit to the relevant Military Service an application and a certificate of success of the competent Greek Police Service, which shall indicate the date of the publication of the schedules of successors of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, as well as their academic year of registration at the above schools. The deferral of classification shall be suspended at the request of the party concerned. The competent services of the Greek Police shall inform their respective Military Services of the inclusion of these successors in the Schools of Greek Police.". This is the text. If the House approves it, I can testify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Minister. I'd ask you to testify. I would also ask the services to distribute this text.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u193	I put it before you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u194	The reason is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us that the main objective of the inspirations of the bill, both the government and the European Union, is clear. It forms part of the general logic of facilitating the capitalist recovery of the economy in our country, facilitating liquidity and commitment to the troika. In detail yesterday in the debate on the principle, we tabled our opinion and our reflection. I would like to add the following, however, taking into account the development of the debate yesterday. For example, the argument invoked by common sense is unconvincing. We cannot say that since this legislative initiative is imposed by common sense, it is of little or no significance if it is or is not a Memorandum requirement. But it seems that the memorials for SYRIZA have been growing in common sense in recent years. I would also like to point out that, as the course of the negotiation goes on, the further the evaluation in the various groups and the new agreement comes closer and closer - a memorandum, the more it will go on with new anti-grass commitments, such as the one which today's coexistence is taking on. What are the criticisms made by other opposition parties about this matter? With individual differences, of course, on secondary issues generally say that the bill is good, it moves in the right direction, but that is not enough. They say there must be an economy, meaning this capitalist economy, and so there must be an agreement immediately - I quote what they say in general. And to do that, of course, they say that the government must find it with the institutions, i.e. the troika and, in any case, end the uncertainty we are experiencing. What did the coup d'état say yesterday from this Step? He said: “We, too, seek the same thing. We want a sustainable agreement, a long-standing agreement, an agreement with which we will go in the future, move towards growth and be redistributive. So we want an agreement, yes, but not an agreement on the subject. We will negotiate hard, so that we can save the country." It's not enough the last five years to save her. The other opposition parties cannot - they say - judge the agreement that comes, because they simply don't know it and wait to see it first. From this step, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say to the workers who are listening to us and to the people. At this point in time, we do not need any waiting, we do not need to see the agreement first, in order to know what direction it is going to take, that the people do not have to give any more time. Pending is a waste of time for the people and a profit for coexistence and for energy. The only thing for sure is that the Golgotha for the workers will continue with new anti-grassroots measures. The sure thing is that all the measures taken in the previous Memorandums and breaking the lives of the people will remain untouched and new ones will be added. What is coming is not an embroidery - in introductory terms - a compromise, as they are trying to'saving' it, but a consolidation of poverty for workers and people's families. Now he needs a racing answer. The power of the people lies in the struggles. With these struggles, correctly oriented, against the cause of and acute problems, we can reverse this situation. Now we need an uproar against the new memorials that come, against the new anti-grass deals. In order not to take any new measures to abolish all the anti-Fraud laws that have been passed in recent years, there is no need to wait, because every day it is becoming more and more evident that what is needed is the rejection of all the obvious and covert blackmails, both of the government and of the troika. In the last few days they have been giving and taking such blackmail, for example, 'if the agreement is not closed, we are going to check on funds', 'if we do not end up with the partners, we go to the drachma', 'there is a risk of becoming Zimbabwe' and I don't know what else and I don't know what else to say. It is literally a lousy game, when the SYRIZA coexistence - ANEL officially assures that the anti-grass agreement is a matter of hours, days, a game that has been set up on the back of the people to create a climate of insecurity and terrorism in order to accept this agreement as a redemption, consent to another slaughter and say "thank you". Is there any other perspective? In our opinion, yes, there is. What the people need is to choose the path of resistance, the way of breaking with the European Union, the break with the capitalist development path that brought the crisis. As much as they try to obscure this perspective, this will always be timely and always the only one who can give the people everything they own. Now, in relation to our position on the articles, the JRC has stated that it will vote'residents' in principle and on the articles. Taking into account the parameter concerning self-employed and small businesses, we are in any case asking for the amendment of paragraph 4 of the Code of Administrative Procedure to be made to ensure that the legal instrument is escalated according to the level of the claim, so that small enterprises or self-employed persons with relatively small claims are not disproportionately charged. On the same basis, in order to facilitate self-employed and small entrepreneurs, we agree that it is up to the administrative authorities to determine the payment order. We disagree with what ended up in the law, that is to say, that this competence should be passed on to the administrative courts. The legislative improvement made in Article 272C which refers to the possibility of submitting an application to the Secretariat of the Administrative Courts, in our opinion, is in a positive direction, but does not really address the problem. As far as the amendments are concerned, we agree with Amendment No 156 and vote 'yes' because it is right that those who have completed the twenty-first year of their age should be able to postpone. But, Minister, the Minister is not here, of course, and there is one point here too. The successors in these Schools should be immediately registered. What will they do one, two years? Why should this time be lost? As regards Amendment No 157, we have no problem with paragraph 1, we have no objection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Madam President, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u196	Go on, Mr. Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u197	With regard to paragraph 2 of the amendment, which concerns fines imposed on employers for certain important infringements relating to the insurance of workers, the amendment actually facilitates employers, since they will now have the possibility of appealing against accounting in the court of their place of business and not the seat of the administrative authority which imposes the fine, which is the norm and so far is the case. I would like to make it clear that we agree with the logic that everyone should be tried as close as possible to the place of residence or exercise of their profession. In particular, this should be the case for the popular layers. But why, Minister, for example, do you choose to make it easier for employers and not make it easier for the seafarer, who should come from Chios, Thassos to Piraeus, to resort to NAT, since the seat of NAT is in Piraeus? That is why, although we agree that the trial should be brought closer, we will vote'residents'. For Amendment No 158, which did not mention whether or not accepted, as for Amendment No 159, we are voting'represent'. These are amendments tabled by SYRIZA Members. We agree, of course, with the three-month extension of the application for recognition of working time. However, in no case do we agree that workers themselves pay the premiums. This cost must be borne by the state. We are voting on Amendment No 159. We have also voted in the original regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. We continue with the special speaker from the Independent Greeks, Mr. Vasilis Kokalis. You've got eight minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u199	And less, Madam President. We talked in detail yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Red, and yesterday you said you'd talk less, but you've spent all your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u201	First of all, I would like to say that this bill is the implementation of a European obligation and not a Memorandum, as was heard yesterday. It was a directive to all Member States, which they have to comply with. It resolves important issues for which it has dealt with and divided the case-law of the courts, for who is responsible, for issuing a payment order, for the political or administrative courts. This issue is being resolved definitively. The administrative courts shall be responsible for issuing the payment order. We, the Independent Greeks, are very pleased that we have identified and proposed the most central point and the most important one. What's that? The second condition laid down by the draft law, preventive control. We raised it as the most key point. We are very pleased that, with the legislative improvements that the Minister has brought, he is moving in the right direction. We are also very pleased that all parties agree with our position. Moreover, improvements, such as the end of the judiciary, are totally in agreement with all articles and with all legislative improvements. Finally, we agree with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Red. I get what I said before. You were very real in what you said. The reason is the special speaker of PASOK, George Arvanitides, for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, by introducing the possibility of issuing a payment order from administrative contracts, especially for undoubted, financially audited, financial claims, the effective harmonisation of the Greek law towards European Union directives is completed. The new regulations therefore provide for a rapid, unilateral and judicial recognition procedure for requirements. In this sense, we basically and legally agree with the attempt to supplement the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure. Article 272 A describes in detail the conditions to be met in order to request the issue of a payment order. This is, as we have said, an important innovation, because for the first time our administrative courts are given the opportunity to deal directly with a case and to give a claim against the public. Of course, as has been adequately explained, it is imperative that it be undisputed. It is essential that the amount should be cleared, that is to say, that the financial control of the expenditure has been completed and that all it remains to be disbursed. As rightly stated in the explanatory statement, this is necessary in order to create the necessary legal basis for satisfying the rightful claim. Also, as the directive requires, this requirement should come from an administrative contract in the context of a trade transaction. It is crucial here to clarify and make known in the trading field what categories of cases fall under the new regulation. This will ensure the maximum use of the new administrative mechanism and thus avoid failures and errors. Subsequently, the remaining articles follow a exhaustive description of the same procedure for issuing the payment order. We note that the new procedure has been quite similar to the one already followed in civil justice for several decades ago. This seems right and desirable because it does not cause unnecessary confusion in the legal community and in the trading sector, which will be called upon to take advantage of this new institution. Of course, a number of basic differences are also introduced from the order of payment of the civil procedure. For example, the new procedure will require performance of the application to the counterparty. This is necessary in order to speed up the screening of expenditure. The law in paragraph 5 correctly lays down a time limit for the public authority to produce the relevant service certificate, which will have the effect of checking. It is also right to provide a presumption of positive control in the event of public intervention. It may, however, appear as a suffocating deadline. Thirty days may be few, in order to deal with a dossier, to end the issues of legality and regularity in expenditure, which often needs to be deep and thorough and at the end of issue of the payment order. That is why, in order to avoid the risk of the provision being degenerated into a simple list or abuse, it might be wiser to provide for a longer deadline, which is more realistic, but of course not to burden the overall duration of the procedure. Speaking of a deadline, I would like to say that we also hope that the deadline set in the draft law, in the new Article 172 IV, for the issue of a payment order, will be respected faithfully. Of course, we are aware of the consistent case-law of the competent courts which speak of indicative and not binding deadlines for the adoption of judgments. We also recognise the huge volume of outstanding cases, especially in administrative justice. I think, however, that we will all agree that one of the key criteria for the success of this new procedure will be its overall duration from the submission of the application to the acquisition of the enforceable title. The fact that this is about incorporating the European directive on procedures of a total duration of 90 days is in favour of this view. In the immediate future, and since we have the expected use of the new institution by public creditors, we believe that the average time for issuing the payment orders in Greece should be closely monitored and that immediate measures should be taken to strengthen the respective departments of the latent administrative prototypes. That is to say, as far as possible, the problem must be tackled at the earliest opportunity in order to avoid any delays in other judicial proceedings. Furthermore, on the matter of the judicial document, which must accompany the request for the issue of the payment order, we note that the draft law in Article 272c(4) contains a quite significant difference in relation to the original text, as was submitted for public consultation last October. The Court of Justice now follows the general provisions. Instead of 1, it is now 8, plus any increments. We realise that this is obviously an attempt to bring about the necessary uniformity to the payment orders of the political procedure. However, it may also give rise to a concern about the amount of the note, given the level of the public's own claims. In other words, it must be ensured that the law does not go to dissuasive levels of action against the new institution. For this reason, Minister, it might be useful to see a regulation which would set a ceiling or a threshold at the overall level of the instruments. With regard to other arrangements, the draft law correctly and unequivocally provides for all necessary details concerning the legal aid for the opposition to payment order. The debtor shall be entitled to retrospectively, following the issue of a payment order, his objections and claims and, under conditions, after having exercised the opposition, to obtain the suspension of its enforcement. In this way, the interests of a creditor and debtor are balanced in terms of legal protection. Of course, the question of time and the overall length of the procedure also arises here. We hope and hope that the opposition will not prove the achilles heel of the whole model and the trials that will open up will not follow the average duration of the other procedures in the administrative courts. Of course, this also requires a general change of attitude on the part of the State and the Council of State in order to avoid unnecessary legal proceedings and the long-term and costly exercise of all pending courts. It is very important and deserves to receive the attention of the Ministry of Justice as a whole and strategically and not just on the basis of this bill. Of course, we also have the question of suspending execution during the period of opposition. I said yesterday that this can be seen as a procedural prerogative of the public, which is likely to disrupt the equality of the parties and the equivalence of their weapons. In fact, it is important that the Legislative Committee drafting the original draft had not provided for anything similar in Article 272 G. This bill attempts to bring about the quicker satisfaction of the cleared, audited and certified financial claims of public creditors, and I think that is enough, in order to ensure the necessary consensus in this House. By the same procedure, the beneficiaries of the non-disputed financial claims will be given an immediate enforceable title. With this content, the proposed arrangements are a strong public-supported weapon, in order to directly pay the sums due to its suppliers, but also to thousands of businesses that are traded with the State and the administration. This draft law could therefore be incorporated into an overall effort to restore the normality of the life of the transaction and to improve the liquidity of the market. The question, Minister, is whether this strategy should be implemented and implemented by the current government. In principle, we voted on the bill. We are voting on it in the articles, as in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. We're going to the list of speakers on the articles. Mr Javarras, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. I take the floor, ladies and gentlemen, to develop an opinion that I expressed during the drafting of the bill in the committee responsible. In particular, I would like to comment, with two points, on Article 1 of the bill, provision of provision 272b, in which it establishes the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal for the issue of a payment order. The first point I want to make in this debate is that the competence of the administrative courts is not self-evident. And it is not self-evident, because we are not literally talking about jurisdiction, but about jurisdiction. And jurisdiction, as the teachers at least taught us, science, but also case law, is the genuine diagnosis of the existence or absence of a legal relationship. So it is not a diagnostic procedure to issue a payment order, but it is a creation of an enforceable title, which, of course, the state could have delegated jurisdiction and non-judiciary authorities. For example, notary documents that are enforceable. So here it is created - from a point of view, I would say, mistakenly - that a gap is covered, which is obviously closer to the question, obviously - I repeat - there was not, because the state, Parliament, could put an additional paragraph in the provision of Article 623 of the Code of Civil Procedure and there included in the range of requirements which are equipped by payment order by the judge of the one-sided court and in the case of claims arising from administrative contracts concluded in the course of trade. It's not, I repeat, a diagnostic trial or a diagnostic procedure. In other words, there is no authentic diagnosis of the right to administrative law or of the legal relationship between administrative law, and in that sense there is no problem at all. It would be much more economical, in terms of legal energy, which would not bring a burden to the Greek courts, because regular political justice had already been guided in issuing a payment order, on that very basis. And, of course, within the framework of Article 20(2) of the Constitution, it now considered that it could provide judicial protection and in the form of issuing a payment order for claims arising from administrative contracts concluded in trade. That is why I think that this regulation is not entirely a success, although I am not in the mood, since my party has been put here, to differ in terms of voting. But I am reluctant to see whether it will eventually succeed in implementing. Of course, I have reservations, when it is assumed that so far from the way the civil courts applied or provided the relevant judicial protection, they did not ask for any prior preventive examination by the competent audit authorities, but the judge himself did, as was the case in the case, precisely in the relevant investigation. The second, Minister, with great respect and unlimited respect, which I have as a comment to make, is that, from what I understand, you have changed your mind and while you had initially adopted the competence of the Administrative Court, you have then chosen the jurisdiction of the court of appeal, because you have heard the representatives of the competent administrative judges who have told you that there is a very heavy burden of cases in the administrative courts. For thirty years I served a lawyer in a provincial court and was honoured for many years with the office of President of the Bar Association. The problem with the district courtrooms is that most of the judges meet once a month, most of the judges live in Athens, from which often telephone calls give temporary orders, even considering the conditions for extradition or not to be issued by phone. I do not know whether the trade union representatives of the administrative judges' group have said that. I regret, however, that the Administrative Court of the Tower, which has two transitional seats. If you take away Christmas and Easter holidays and summer holidays and both transitional seats, which are obliged once a month to meet the Administrative Court, you will meet every year six times. Tell me: Is it possible that there is no unjust case burden? You will allow me, with great appreciation, Minister, to tell you that the state, which has three functions, must, at least in terms of the expression of its legislative function, not be confined to and not adopt unreservedly and unreservedly the proposals or opinions of the professional groups concerned, because they are intended to save legal proceedings so that their privileges or any of their acquired assets do not affect them. A great wise man of Enlightenment, whose wisdom - and of course this wisdom still applies - said that the law is the expression of general will and the general will can only express, ensure and protect the general interest and not the partial interest. That is why the state today must be the primary objective, the primary objective of the great reform to be carried out, because for thirty years we have done nothing else in this House than to adopt such proposals, that is to say, requests for professional privileges. That's what I had to tell you. I am, of course, voting for this bill, but also because you are a university professor and you may not have experience of the day-to-day court act, so I say to you that you should have the opportunity to form your own concept and not all of us here adopt what is organized in groups of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u207	Madam President, may I clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u208	Mr Athanasios has asked for the floor. Come on, Minister, and then Mr Athanasios will speak. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u209	With the same respect and respect, Mr Javarra, I will tell you that, in my opinion, the issue of a payment order is a judicial act. This has been judged by the Marble Ice as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u210	It's a judicial act. Diagnostic...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u211	And court order. Date of birth: (a) Approximately 1964.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u212	Mr Bey supports this view. I didn't get her out of my mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u213	I would also say that the only fact that the requirement should be unquestionable leads to the need to formulate a judicial reasoning, which is the task of the judiciary. So we're right about going. After all, the opposition to an order, the lodging of a payment order, which is a clearly legal procedure, which should not belong elsewhere, must also be followed. Moreover, as regards the preferences of the appeal court, as shown in that opinion as a composition of the views expressed here, I would simply remind you that the burden of the prima facie courts, in relation to the corresponding burden of the appeals, has arisen from records rather than from the points of view of the judicial associations. After all, so did lawyers and, if I remember well, one of the business operators who submitted their views here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u214	May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Javarra, wait a minute. Thank you, Mr. Minister. I had already given Mr Athanasios the opportunity to make an intervention and I will then give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much. Just a minute. I have to say that Mr Javarras is a law-abiding lawmaker and has proved it in both the years he holds the law, but also in Parliament. I do not disagree about the separation of jurisdiction and competence. That's right. After all, Mr Javarra - you were not here yesterday - so did I. And I know very well that he respects judiciary officials as a lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u217	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u218	It was probably at the edge of the speech that he said they were syndicates. Judicial associations shall be scientific associations whose establishment and functioning are provided for in the Constitution. They are the only trade unions whose establishment and function are provided for by the Constitution. In this respect - and I will repeat it again - the Minister said so - there was indeed a great division in science and jurisprudence until now if the order for payment is the subject of a diagnostic trial and whether it is a judicial decision or an enforceable title. This issue has already been resolved since the last case-law since 2011. It's a court decision. The Minister said so, too. It's not an execution title. It is mainly a judicial decision, which becomes enforceable by its diagnosis and periodicity. Therefore, we have body of decisions - the last decision that has been made is 369/2014 - in the years 2011, 2012 and 2013. And that was the object that had gone to the Supreme Special Court, by decision 18/2005, which judged the matter of jurisdiction and whether the order for payment is a simple enforceable title or a judicial decision. And it has been decided that this is a court decision. This is as clarification. What he said is commenting on the honourable professor, Mr Beys, is a minority aerospace decision - I do not remember exactly the decision now - several years ago and he has his scientific opinion that it is an execution title. However, the case-law of the courts has solved the matter and it is a court order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. Mr. Javarras has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u220	If, in fact, we were in the United Kingdom, I would be persuaded by the claims made by the chosen former President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, my chosen colleague and former Minister of Justice. We do not, however, have a legal form here. And, as we know, court law changes. But what does not change is the scientific approach of the legal phenomena. It is therefore clear that either a decision or an act is the order of payment, as an act alone, does not involve a reproach, that is to say, an authentic diagnosis of rights and obligations. It is another question of whether the opposition proceedings are enforced. That's another decision. And, of course, because it contains a diagnosis, it has a reciprocity and, of course, it is issued in the context of a diagnostic trial. Others, then, the order of payment and the trial that starts in opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u221	And for the order of payment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u222	Let Mr. Javarras continue and finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u223	I repeat, why didn't you follow me, Mr. President? I said it's changing. The issue is the scientific thought that is being guided. And one last. What I said is entirely in line with the European Union's texts, because from nowhere and in the regulation and in the directive there is no need to impose or establish jurisdiction of administrative courts or political courts, depending on the type of claim sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Does the Minister want to comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u225	No, it's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u226	We therefore continue with the speakers on the articles. Mr. Lappas Spyridon, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to feel a very special pleasure this weekend, because this House may have despised itself from the point of view of numbers and only legal and certain friends of legal science are present, but I must say that, before the debate that has been distributed, the Minister with Mr Javarra, but also yesterday, if something is going on, it is the ideas surrounding the law, democracy and legal science. First of all, we must resolve a few things, ladies and gentlemen, which are urgent. Mr. Javarras isn't right when he says he doesn't produce the order for payment in a predetermined manner. If the period laid down in Article 633, no opposition is to be exercised, i.e. the second service and the second period, the same payment order shall produce a res judicata. That's foreseeable, theory, case-law, etc. Also, Mr. Javarras is not right on another matter. Always before the change of case law takes the lead in changing the scientific approach to legal and legal phenomena. This is also based on scientific foundations, at every level and in every respect. I read it, Mr Athanasios, in an analysis of the institution of the order for payment by the legal library. It's a quote from Mr. Bey, Mr. Keramea and a German, who I don't remember his name. I have it, and I'll give it to you in a minute, as soon as I finish my speech. Madam President, there are two fundamental points here: the view of the representatives of the Communist Party that this introduction of the institution of the issuing of a payment order and of administrative procedure is an option that is essentially in response to strong capitalist, monopolistic and other anti-grassroots interests. And another view that says yes, but it is a good institution, but it has many imperfections and weaknesses and could be better. None of this is true. The institution of the order for payment has been established for many years in the field of civil procedure, political trial and civil perception. It exists in our country and in all the states of the European Union and the world. The first thing the lawyer learns when he swears, the first almost legal act and legal decision he is issuing is the issue of a payment order. I'd say the first income of the new lawyer is the execution of a payment order. It is an institution that has met the needs of society, the needs of the economy and the needs of the society as a whole. And in that sense, it also appreciates the satisfaction, in many respects, of the public interest. Mr President of the JRC, I could join your opinion and tell you that there are some dozens of people who do not belong to people who have a claim against the public, the Otta and the legal persons of public law of 3 000, 5 000, 10,000. There are some who have a million-dollar claim. I can assure you, however, that in what you said before, you are in favour of the whole, in favour of the workers and the self-employed, 85% of public and OTA lenders are self-employed and medium-sized enterprises with a claim below 50,000. Are you going to say something about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u228	Yesterday was 65%. So today they're 85%?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u229	65% is only for the Ottas, Mr. CEDEFOP representative. We are talking about all public, OTA and legal persons under public law. 85% are micro-professionals. Should we tell them that our country now needs to transfer, remove privileges from the great power of the economy, which is the Greek State and transfer these rights as rights to lenders, which are small and medium-sized enterprises? What does the bill do you think? Is he doing anything else? It removes age-long privileges from the Greek state, which has held a hostage for tens of years - not to say more - micro-loans and micro-enterprises. For example, in my region, I have nine years of litigation at the administrative courts for a company that sold a card worth 11,000 euros to the General Hospital of Carditsa. And a lawsuit was filed against him, and we're in the regular diagnostic trial nine years. What will you tell this man when he could not issue a payment order for 11,000 euros then? Will you tell him that he is in favour of monopolies and capitalist perception and development of the economy and society? Answer him at last. What does he have to do? This institution benefits in many ways. Firstly, it benefits because it restores a fundamental balance of equality of legal and procedural weapons. On the one hand it cannot be the public, which has a patronage of a multitude of arrows and weapons, and on the other hand, the weak micro-loans and small businessman, who has to wait and think about what he will do. Is it going to resort to the 11,000 euros, which will be spent in a decade's judiciary? Shouldn't we give him an answer? We give the answer and say something else about what was said yesterday by Mr Georgiadis here, not least in view of the fact that his view that our country's obligation is a Memorandum of Obligation. So, this obligation, the Community directive, is an ad hoc directive concerning Greece in a Memorandum programme? Is that what you want to say, Mr. Representative of the JRC, which you fully agree with Mr. Georgiadis? Are you saying it's an ad hoc arrangement for our country, which was in a memorandum? It's not. It's about all the states. It concerns Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Do you find any connection with these countries with regard to a memorandum programme? That's honesty. That's the truth. Even if the Community directive did not exist, we should once, as a fundamental democratic country, transfer the successful institution of political procedure, namely the institution of payment order and administrative trial, because there is a reality here, which is the shame of Greek society. Because the administrative courts, the administrative court, are indeed the shame of our legal system. A claim of EUR 10,000 or EUR 15 000 or EUR 15 000 can not be in the courts for seven to eight years, when the micro-loanser has now spent time, money, mind, powers. At the end of the day, when he is satisfied, it will now be a completely useless decision, because the amount he started as his claim has become a small percentage of the expenditure he paid to satisfy his claim. That's the truth, Mr. Spokesman, that you're reacting to the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In addition, Mr Javarras a moment ago, again brought back the well-known issue, namely who should be the judge responsible for issuing a payment order. I said yesterday - and I repeat now - why the Minister has chosen - and rightly so - as a body responsible for issuing a payment order for the administrative year. I told you four main reasons. Firstly, since we are talking here about transferring the institution, Mutatis mutandis, issuing a payment order from civil procedure to administrative procedure, we must also see what this institution says and what is done in civil procedure. The one-sided court judge is the extrajudicial court. In the same courtroom, the whole process goes after the opposition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Here, in fact, we have another criterion, according to which the administrative authority is imposing. What's that? All administrative disputes arising from administrative contracts shall be the sole responsibility of the administrative appeals. What are we gonna do now? Are we going to remove a competence to which the main trial goes in relation to the administrative court and take it to the administrative court as if we were not due? Therefore, the administrative authority is the most competent, because the administrative court is judging all disputes arising from administrative contracts, it is vindicating the opposition of this draft law. And only a payment order, which is a procedure on the documents, would go away, since we have four basic legal concepts, namely an administrative contract, an unquestionable requirement, a trade transaction and a preventive control. They're legal, of course. Let us lawyers we're dealing with, that's what we're thinking. Therefore, the administrative and administrative appeals were correctly chosen as exclusively responsible for the whole procedure for issuing a payment order and ordering an opposition. I think - and I conclude, Madam President - that the institution of the payment order for us fighting lawyers is not just an institution that helps or will help a bit. It is a necessary institution, because the purpose of the bill is one, the acceleration of acquisition by the lender of the public and the OTA of enforceable securities, which means simply having a procedural capacity to collect his money. This means 'implemented title', i.e. the process of collection by execution is initiated. I think that this institution will find its justice and application, as will the respective institution of the Code of Civil Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Lappa. Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou, Member of the European Parliament from Potami, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, without wanting to be annoying and boring, you will allow me to repeat the point I made yesterday. Of course, our space, our movement, our party will support this provision in this draft law. We believe it is in the right direction. That's how it has to be. In fact, the right to the payment order must be granted. It's something we don't talk about. Apart from whether it is a Community directive or not, it is a matter of justice. I now come as a lawyer to tell you where I am concerned, from the moment I read this bill. Of course, this issue has also been discussed with your partners. We're coming to get a payment order. If preventive control is not completed, I have the possibility within the time limit laid down by the law, either continue or do not continue to issue a payment order. But I can issue the payment order. The presumption of preventive control is combatable. But if negative preventive control arises, with the opposition brought by the Greek State, the order for payment will be rejected for a formal reason and I will lose my legal mark. I am sure that in the big differences this will lead me from now on: even if I have tabled the payment order, if the preventive control does not come, I will be withdrawing it and I will be tabling it again and again, until the preventive control comes and I see that it is positive, because if it is negative, I will lose a high amount of judiciary. I mean, for a difference of one million, I'm gonna lose 10,000 euros a judiciary for a typical reason. In similar cases in civil courts, when we talk about checks or exchanges, when for typical reasons the judge does not accept the payment order, he returns it to you, he tells you that this point is missing from the exchange rate, this elementary point from the check and allows you with the same court paper to come back. I repeat - and I close - that it is in the right direction, but it creates a problem for lawyers. It is certain that it will lead them not to lodge payment orders, but to continue to file a complaint with a voter's request. It's very likely that it will lead to something else. A lawyer who is a big lawyer, such as Mr Hadjigeriou, who because he is a Member of Parliament, has the ability to press to quickly get the result of preventive control - whether negative or positive - has the possibility of ordering payment, knowing the result of preventive control or having the result of preventive control within the deadline laid down by the law. I am a province lawyer and I do not have that possibility, I will file the payment order, I will never have the result of the preventive control within the deadline, and when he is negative - which can often be for any formal reason - the payment order I have tabled will be cancelled, so that I lose the money I have deposited as a judicial instrument. You have to make a provision - even if it is not now - in cases especially where then, while preventive control may have been at sixty, seventy, eighty days, for a typical reason may be negative. But then this standard element missing from the contract can be corrected, and after six months for the same difference, for the same requirement, preventive control can be done positive and I can issue a payment order. You lead me to pay the law twice, or to lose a lawsuit from a difference that I could really win. We don't have to burden people with this extra exit. It's wrong, and we have to deal with it, because we'll find it in everyday life. It will surely lead to recognition, and it will certainly lead to the acceptance of recesses for formal reasons and not for substantive reasons. It will definitely remove our lawyers and clients from this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Hadjimitriou. Mrs Kozobol - Amanatidis Panagiotas, Member of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u233	Madam President, I shall speak from my point of view, because what I want to say is very little. I think everything was said on the issue of the bill. It has been thoroughly discussed. I will only point out that the position of the State as a party to the dispute is well known and really is inappropriate and unqualified for a rule of law. But that's not the issue of the bill. That's why we need another bill. It is a matter of many factors how to become the Greek State, as is indeed the case with a rule of law. This piece of legislation solves exactly what Mr Spyros Lappas said just now, that he equips the beneficiary of a claim, a public claim, in short, famously with a title of executioner. I think everything has been discussed and solved. In particular, I have taken the floor to applaud the present procedure. There was a detailed discussion of the bill in an exemplary manner in committee. Our Minister, having opened the ears, has heard all the comments made. It has carefully filtered them, incorporated them, and the result is that we have a bill which is not only operational, which is not just for the reasons that have been developed - it is at the moment serving the speed of judiciary, but it happens to accepting almost all of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Amanatidis. Before we move to the last speaker, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and five educational attendants from the Elementary School of Eastern Thessaloniki, which is my homeland. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The last speaker, Mr Efstathos Leucakos, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u235	I want to talk about two amendments, Madam President. One amendment concerns school guards. An extension must be given, because it has not been possible to settle and to recognise, as has been voted on in law, their employment time in work experience programmes to measure premiums. On this basis we propose, together with other colleagues, that we extend the deadline for another three months from the end. An additional amendment is the extension of the deadline for applying for the application to be made under the arrangements laid down in Article 19 of Law 4324/2015. This is because social security bodies, despite the fact that an initial extension had been granted and because there is great interest, because of the lack of staff they have not been able to respond to this obligation. That is why we propose that a new extension be granted until 26-6-2015 and, secondly, that this extension should not apply to renting of immovable property of social security institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Leucasco. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u237	I have no objection to the amendment proposed by the honourable Member. I should like to say, in reply to Mr Hatzidis, that I do not believe that the question of the judiciary is not raised because either his payment can be made on the 30th day of the relevant deadline - that is to say, the deadline within which a preventive check is carried out - so there is no possibility of us retrospective monitoring, which is negative, or even after the 20th day, that a resignation from the address for issuing a payment order is possible, so that there is no need for the payment of a judicial record and, if any, that has been paid can be carried out. Of course, once the order has been issued, no doubt the value of the use of the judicial instrument has been consumed and no question of its return or withdrawal has been raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u238	Am I coming, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u239	Wait, Mr. Georgiades! But there's no time for anyone to talk, and you're on your way!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u240	Okay, I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u241	Minister, Mr Leucakos referred to two amendments, 158 and 159. If I understand correctly, you're accepting both of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u242	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u243	Well, thank you very much. The discussion process on the articles of the bill has been completed. The rapporteurs, the special speakers and the speakers have finished. We are now going to the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has been asked to speak, representing the New Democracy. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for eight minutes. I would also ask the other parliamentary representatives, if they wish, to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. I apologize if I was a little hasty before, it's sometimes my character. Ladies and gentlemen, today, thirty-six years ago, in 1979, the late nation-state of Constantine Karamanlis placed Greece at the time of the EEC. The truth is that many then reacted to Greece. And Constantine Karamanlis led the country to the safe waters of Europe, perhaps not with the absolute consent of all. In the course of time, however, everyone understood that this was the right choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u245	Not everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u246	Except the JRC, so I don't blame you. And even those who reacted sooner or later realised that Greece's future can only be anywhere else in Europe. And we are coming today on an exceptionally critical day, ladies and gentlemen, especially SYRIZA, because the amateurisms of your government - and it seems from the Prime Minister's point of view, unfortunately - this great achievement of the country is for the first time putting it into serious doubt. Today we are talking, Minister, about incorporating a European directive. You disagreed about our Memorandum of Understanding, which Mr Athanasios said and I supported, and you said that it was a European directive. But the question is: will Greece be a member of Europe in a few days? Because if Greece is not a member of Europe, it obviously makes no sense to incorporate European directives. And that is the real responsibility you have, because from now on whether Greece will be a member of Europe depends on the decisions made by the Prime Minister and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. And you will forgive me for telling you, but this is where things are going completely incomprehensible. Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister of the country does not have the real picture and knowledge of the real course of the negotiations? Is the negotiations taking place, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of the Prime Minister, or does he have a problem of understanding? Because here yesterday something has not yet been explained: the Prime Minister - not the cycling leak, not the usually popular Mr Varoufakis, not a counsellor, but the Prime Minister himself - announced to the Greek people that we are close to an agreement. Only 12 minutes have elapsed at 17.42 p.m. to an announcement from the German Ministry of Finance that we are not close to an agreement. By night, the International Monetary Fund, the Commission and all those who constitute the mesh of our partners and lenders, who have clearly disproved what the Prime Minister said. And take note, ladies and gentlemen, before you hurry to ask'support what foreigners say'. See how wonderful the Greek language is! Deal! What does it say 'agreement'? ‘voice’ and ‘cost’. That is, both parties must say the same. If both parties don't say the same, it doesn't matter who's telling the truth and who's lying. There's no deal, because they don't say the same thing. It is amonophony in this case. And if Mr. Tsipras wants to make a deal with himself just...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u247	And an offense!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u248	...then in this case leads us to falsification or rather to irrationality and rather to destruction. And, unfortunately, that's not funny at all, dear, Mr. Tsouula. It's very serious. We're no longer...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u249	If we negotiate like this...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u250	Listen, sir. I have heard the argument 'if we do so'. Whether you make a good deal or not will be judged by the result. We have told you that many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u251	Let's see what the ending will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u252	You sold the Greek people a nice story. And at the moment you gave the Greeks or a large portion of them a sense of pride, that they should negotiate, while the previous ones did not know how to negotiate. It was the time when the government partner, Mr Nicholas, said the previous ones were negotiating on four! But you know, this first impression of false pride has now left and all there is in Greece is concern. And I will tell you because you have caused me: the result of the negotiation will judge whether all that you were saying had substance or not. For the time being, we are on a day when international rating agencies issue one after another that Greece's bankruptcy is increasing. And for the first time, there is the feeling - not to us here in Greece, not in the New Democracy - to the international media, so to world public opinion, that Greece is bankrupt. Don't think about taking Greece to the rocks. I told you yesterday, and I'm telling you again, 'cause you're probably messed up. To the Greek people you have sold a nice story, what you have, he says, says how to ensure his stay in the euro without the memorandum. So you should take Europeans' money without the obligations that bear that money. That's what you told the Greeks, and that's why they voted on you. You never told the Greeks that if this hadn't happened, I would turn Greece into Venezuela. That's something else. So, an order to do it, you don't. And if a large section - 40%, 45% - of your Central Committee, this is an internal account of the SYRIZA and it is not about the Greek people at all. And do not you have any doubts about those who today on the road call you 'bravo' who are making the heroic negotiation. I say that you are making the worst possible negotiation that you could do, which will also be reflected in the result, which can be an absolute disaster today or a very bad agreement, unfortunately, much worse than the e-mail Hardouvelis. Because yesterday, SYRIZA's colleague, Mr Gerovasili, challenged me and said, 'because some people are anticipating that it will be worse than Hardouvel's e-mail, since they do not know the agreement', we should reverse the question. The Prime Minister had come here on a nice day, there the first days you said the good things, and said, "We will not negotiate in secret. We will inform the Greek people about everything." Since then no one has learned exactly what you are talking about. Baron Munchausen would be ashamed to meet him! He came here to Parliament and said 'we will not negotiate secretly'. And you told us yesterday 'and where do you know what the negotiation is?' The answer is that we should know why you made yourself free. But let me take a step further. So let me say that, in fact - and, unfortunately, this is happening - you are not telling anyone what you are doing and we need to read the foreign press to find out what the reality is. Because if we believed you, we would have celebrated the deal a couple of times to this day. Forty times you have announced it so far! But listen to something, Mrs Gerovali: Ten days ago a so-called 'Yunker Plan' was released, which Mr Yunker devastated after twenty-four hours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. But in the first few minutes your own MEP, Mr Papadimoulis, came out in public and celebrated how good a plan is and how good a deal that is! Mr. Papadimoulis did it, Mrs. Gerovalis, not me! Do you know how many billions this plan had? He had 5.5 billion dollars! Do you know how much the e-mail Hardouvelis had? He had 1 billion! So don't tell me why I'm downgrading. Take a call from Mr Papadioulis, who is in the Commission, to tell you why he celebrated, apparently considering that what is coming will be much worse than this 'Yunker Plan' which we have seen. In any case, we will see if and if you succeed in reaching an agreement. But what you certainly have no right to do is to work with the Greek people. And Mr. Tsipras certainly has no right to do so. Because I repeat - and I want an answer, Madam President-in-Office! - the following: Or Mr. Tsipras did not know yesterday that we have no agreement - and so he is completely incapable of this position and has no picture of the negotiation - or he knew it and in knowledge lied to the Greek people. There can be no other possibility, because the denial of his optimism, I repeat, has taken place in twelve minutes. It only took 12 minutes to answer the German Ministry of Finance and since then to follow a reply from the French Ministry of Finance, from the Community, from the IMF, from the international houses and from those who have spoken so far. And I want to say something to be informed and clear, because this is where the story is looking at us: if you take the country to the rocks, don't think that's going to pass like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u253	He's already gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u254	It hasn't gone at all, ma'am! You're making a mistake! You say that! He hasn't gone at all. Take a plane and go to the country that is your political model in Venezuela - whose currency was underestimated yesterday by 30% and has 100% inflation since the beginning of the year - and then go back and tell us whether the country has gone to the rocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u255	He's gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u256	The country didn't go to the rocks because we kept it off the rocks. And you took her now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u257	Where do you live, sir? Where do you live?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u258	And in four months you have turned the market into recession, in four months' time unemployment rises again, in four months' time tourism is at risk again, again, Greece has become the first topic in all international media. But, I say again, to be recorded in the Minutes: If you take the country to the rocks, do not think we will have laughs and tranquility in Greece. If you take a country and destroy it, responsibilities will be sought. And this time they will be searched to the end and as they should. I therefore ask the SYRIZA Government to do what it was elected for, to keep Greece in Europe and in the Eurozone and to sign an agreement. If you can't do it, if you're completely incapable of doing it, if you lied to the Greeks in an election, get up and leave! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u259	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u260	The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA Mr. Olga Gerovasili, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of PASOK Mr. Athanasios Pafilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u261	No, Madam President and Parliamentary Representative of the PASOK!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u262	That's never gonna happen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u263	I'm sorry, Mr. Paphie, I'm confused. Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, please allow me to repeat them correctly. After Mrs Gerovasilis Mr Pafilis is followed by the Communist Party of Greece, then Mr Koutsoukos from PASOK - because Mr Theocharis asked me for the floor - and Mr Theocharis came to the end. Mrs. Gerovali, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard of plagues, earthquakes and strains. We heard Mr. Georgiadis trying to terrorize. Mr. Georgiade, we are neither terrified nor blackmailed. As Alexis Tridras said yesterday, we are in the final straight line of an agreement and we recommend temperament and determination. The determination I keep for us, the coolness I recommend to you. You should be more careful. The moments are crucial to the country and the Greek people. I understand the anxiety not to prove that it was not the one-way policy that you have supported for so many years. I understand your anxiety, but this does not allow you today to be pleased with the possibility of not concluding the agreement and doing everything you can about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u265	On the contrary, he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u266	So I understand that you said that a deal should be made. You say this whole thing, and you automatically turn the whole thing. Report articles, information, announcements - not all, as well as those that suit you, of course. You know very well that on your own days every time a dose was disbursed, the word 'Grexit' was heard. The word ‘Grexit’, you know, was not invented in the SYRIZA Government. As soon as you arrived at the first dose, from the first moment, the ‘Grexit’, this word was on the surface. The blackmail was the same. Except that you immediately retreated into extortion, you signed the agreement - you often did not bother or translate it - and you thought you had ended the national one with your duty. So we don't do that thing. We on 25 January have been instructed by the Greek people to negotiate within the European Union hard. And we do. This is the first time that there has been a genuine negotiation for the country. The Greek people know and support this government. He isolates you every day and more. You're not helping your political body either. That's none of my business, of course. It supports us more than it supported us on the day of the elections. We would not be happy if the bankers said to the table, the interlocutors, those who negotiate hard for their own interests, "what good children you are, what good is Varoufakis, what good Tsipras is", etc. We're happy they don't say that. It means talking really is tough. You also offer something else. To weaken a negotiation, you first make sure you weaken the negotiator. So the outsides have no right to judge who will have a Finance Minister in this country and who we will send as a interlocutor. And you contribute to this, you make a facial degradation to dismantle the negotiation. So SYRIZA does exactly what he was elected for. We're in the final straight line. So, with coolness, and determination, we act. From the outset, the Greek problem was political. Of course, it was in the context of a global economic crisis, but it is primarily a political issue to resolve and political ones will also be the solution from now on. The institutions will assume their historic responsibilities towards Greece, Europe and the global economy. And SYRIZA does the same. And we are doing everything we can for that, and we have travelled a great deal from the distance that separated us. We are therefore very close to an agreement. In the context of a debate - it is announced by SYRIZA - you also know very well that, as far as specific matters are concerned, it makes no sense to discuss small numbers, improvements and minor differences. The framework of the agreement is important. It is well known what has been discussed so far and is also known as the context at this moment. This agreement, therefore, with the Prime Minister's assurances, with the Prime Minister's information and the negotiating group, will provide for low primary surpluses, non-essential measures, which are redistributive, no pension cuts or wage cuts. There will be a VAT reform, which will also be of a redistributive nature and collectivity. There is no scenario for 1.8 billion. The euro, which has been called. And of course, we are looking for and seeking a long-term solution with a debt relief and a next development package to pass on to the next day. We have a full consciousness of where the country is today. The truth is that we did not have a full conscience when we took it, they had hidden a lot, we found it much worse - and that is true - because the success story and the primary surpluses did not find it anywhere, and that is where we started.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u267	And how do you pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u268	With IOU!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u269	The deficit found in February did not mention it, nor did I measure it. It's an official lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u270	But we're telling you the official evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u271	And, of course, I must say from this forefront that pensions will be in the issues that are being discussed, in order to limit early retirement, but without prejudice to fundamental rights. And of course, we are going to unify the insurance funds. We made a commitment to start...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u272	That's what we used to say on e-mail Hardouvelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u273	But you were saying more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u274	Leave the e-mail Hardouvelis. We all remember very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u275	No, just, Mrs. Gerovas, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u276	No, Mr. Brutsi, please, I don't want you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u277	It's just, Madam President, I think it'll be constructive...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u278	I don't want you to interrupt this way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u279	But he doubts him, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u280	But to ask for the floor. You don't even ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u281	In any case, SYRIZA, his members, his MPs, the people in the negotiating group, the government and the Prime Minister are only moving in one direction in the common interest and in the interests of the country. We know that the country's interest is also an interest in SYRIZA. We don't think the country won't get out of here and SYRIZA won't get away with us either. So with that logic and that tactic we are moving. The Greek people have no reason to fear. He had reason to fear, if the previous policy remained, which had already taken us to the rocks and proved. So we fight and fight with all our forces for this country and this people to have a future, that is what you have not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. Mr Athanasios Paphilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, will be given the floor and will be followed by Mr Koutsoukos. Here you go, Mr. Pafili, have the floor for eight minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u283	I'm going to start a little backwards, because it looks like the pattern in the Chamber is going to change slowly. Lappas left, of course, knowing him since 1972...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u284	Then I was born.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u285	Looks like the pattern will change and be formatted along the way. So what's it gonna change? Here we were attacked for the bill, for a bill in which we "residents" vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u286	For what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u287	We explained it very well. You weren't in the Chamber. When you talk, though, I don't fly underneath. If you like it, fly, just give me time later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u288	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u289	You now have support from the New Democracy, from PASOK, from the river, from all of you. And we here are criticising you by voting 'at present' - this is a sample and I do not say it at random - because we say that, at the end of the day, we demand more for the small, small and medium-sized ones, for whom you are 'cut' and why we say that, as it is, it can work for the large ones and the small ones cannot respond. And we are making specific proposals to you that you do not accept. And you come out like the cat and yell at the tiles and criticize the CCT. I say to you - and life will prove what is happening - that from now on it will be: New Democracy, PASOK and Potami will tell you, as you are told, 'Get her to vote', we will criticise you and attack us. That'll be the pattern. That's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u290	And to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u291	We have one more thing to say. One - I don't remember who he was, I don't want to be mistaken - said the classic: 'Everyone other than Lachedhemons'. You said so, Mr Emmanuelides. You know, it doesn't sweat our ears. We've heard of it, not to say a hundred years... When the Maastricht Treaty came here, the coalition rapporteurs said to us: 'Everyone but Laeken. You do not see that we are leading to a united Europe, you are backwards and you are not voting on the Maastricht Agreement.' And you go out today and say: 'We voted in good time'. The Lakedamones, however, went to the Thermopylae! Okay? Secondly, when it became the Macedonian you were all at the rally saying "Macedonia is Greek", we said "no, it's not like that". Then we said it's not just a name issue. The name must be geographically identified. We said the issues were different. It is the intervention more generally in the Balkans. It's the aquarium thing. It's about changing the constitution. That's what we said then. And the Syrians told us at the time - together we were on television - 'all but all Laceemones'. And you come here today and what do you say as government? That's the place we were talking about. So be more modest. Yeah, because we're gonna stay Laceymones. We're not getting zealous. Because there have been no unscrupulous ones, from what you know. Now, to go to day as well, the declarations are good, but here we have a framework, which was given by non - paper - in genuine Greek - but which is also officially given, which leaks about what agreement you are preparing. We say that the agreement refers to new anti-grassroots commitments. Are we wrong? Are we suspicious? Of course, we do not know and neither are we - again in genuine Greek - on line with the institutions that have escaped Mr Varoufakis and said it was the Troika yesterday. It can be the New Democracy, the PASOK that has lines and, of course, you who are negotiating. So what does it say? What it looks like now. First, is the Memorandum currently in existence maintained, yes or no? Does he say any agreement you said you would abolish the Memorandum? You have invented a new thing. It has been said by some of your people - I do not want to say names now because they will ask for the floor on staff - on television that there is no memorandum. You abolish the Memorandum by ruling with all the Memorandum Laws. This is never-timed and you're mocking the world in our opinion. Does the agreement maintain, yes or no, all the previous anti-linguistic laws? Go out and say it. We say it keeps them. It does not appear anywhere that you will be abolished and you do not have any programmes for decommissioning. On the contrary. Secondly, it brings new tough measures. Sounds heavy. Is it hard measures and new tax burdens that will come with VAT and all the changes that are taking place even at the end of the traffic? Yes or no? Who's gonna pay the bride for the next period? Who's gonna pay what's going to be gathered? Big chapter? Here you are exempting them from taxation. You say to them "get the means, it's black, or it's white, and let it be 15% and clean," plus other arrangements you make. Is there a debate on an increase in the pension threshold - yes or no - with the abolition of early retirement? He's coming and you're going there. Now, if you take it in six months, it doesn't change the substance. Is there a question of opening the road to overturn the entire insurance system, regardless of whether you will take it after September, yes or no? What's the deal? That we're going to make sustainability studies for the insurance. When you hear'sustainable studies' and all the rest we all understand - and you said that beforehand - that we are going to the worst for the workers. Here comes the cherry, that there will be no new reductions in wages and pensions. Thank you very much. If you're fond of people in taxation, you don't have to make cuts. Wages and pensions may remain the same, but when taxation is increased, it is a mockery to the Greek people, because there will be a new tax raid. This tax raid is obvious. What is written every day does not concern big capital. Are you really going to hurt the shipowners? They had another raise. Where? Will you sign a deal that would hurt the shipowners because Mr. Shoeble says for other reasons, of course? Where is he? Did we hear that? Will you increase the tax limits on large capital? You're gonna take 45%? Will you sign such a deal? It's not said anywhere. But why don't you put it that way? And you put the second cherry or cherry, which says'redistributive' again. So what? The traffic charges each will pay out of the smallest to the largest car will be redistributive? I'm saying this. In the VAT, who's gonna pay the bride? The rich? Employees will pay her again. So move right where the previous people have stopped and that's why they're yelling, you're eating their bread right now. That's why they yell so much and they yell more. At the same time, of course, this whole story is evolving - it is incredible! - creates a psychological blackmail against the Greek people who tells him, in the final analysis, "a deal whatever it is, to finish, to resurrect, and we do not care what the agreement is". And you all contribute to this, along with this chord. We tell the Greek people: no one feeds you and no one feeds you in your life. We tell the workers and the people! You work, you produce all the wealth there is. This country is too rich for its size. It has all the potential and a handful of pluralists, those who possess the means of production and the European Union that serves the interests of them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I did not speak yesterday. Show me some tolerance, I won't be long. Secondly, you are all saying 'a fair deal which serves both the lenders and the people'. And the whole pie and the pot dog don't know if it's done, unless it's airtight -- and I guess that's what's happening. Is it possible? Are the interests not contrary? You say you have war. That's what you're saying, but really, who's the opponent? How can you make a deal that the loan sharks - or what you have said are and indeed are, we subscribe to it, the interests of capital are - to be satisfied that the Greek people too are? That's not happening! They don't fit, objectively. The issue of optimism is coming too. We must - he says - be optimistic. Honestly, we wonder to whom this feeling of optimism is addressed. What changes the people? The worker from Genoa to this day, all the popular layers, the unemployed, the small and medium-sized, all the others, what changed in their lives? Did they get anything more? Did they win something? Even with the arrangements that have been made, they are paying. They keep paying. What's changed? Is anything changed? Here you had made the Thessaloniki program strategic flag. That's what you said, isn't it? We said it was crumbs. But let go of what we said. What you said tell us where you're applying them? Where? In the face of the humanitarian crisis you say, with EUR 200 million? Where? What about the dosage setting, where the world goes and pays unlocked all the time? What did you give him? The fines? What did you implement? The minimum wage? The collective agreements? Do you have these on the paper? You're all referring it back. The thirteenth pension? And that's what you say they're going away. This did not go back to the needs of the people and to the restoration of the losses, which we have to say, but to what you yourself have said. So where does optimism come from? We understand that optimism can be found in business groups, in the various cords that are ready to come and get the funds from the European Union - they are supposed - and from the Greek people, to invest in jungle and slave labour relations. To them there may be an optimism. You say above - and the world cannot analyse them at one time - 'we will not take any more substantial measures'. Is that what you told the Greek people? What does 'new substantive measures' mean? What exactly does that mean, won't we get you any more? You'll get them if all these devices work. All that money from where he's gonna get it from and where he's picking up? We are therefore saying that there are fewer four months of time, but as a political time it is sufficient to draw some conclusions. First conclusion. We were calling it election, and we are continuing today. Philolic policy within the European Union and the imperialist organisations cannot exist. What did you say? That the negotiator will change and the pentosal markets will dance. And you dance in the bassy, but not you, the Greek people. He's the one they dance in the bass. Isn't that what you said? Secondly, how can people's life change? What are you waiting for? You said Europe was changing. Is Europe really changing? What we are living in is tragedy and the Greek people must lift their heads up. What we have been living with the European Union all these years, and in particular lately, one thing must say, is that this union of imperialists, the dictatorship of capital, which you regard as a one-way path for both the country and the worker and for all the peoples of Europe and not just Greece. That is why we say that there cannot be a road within these imperialist organizations with capital in power for the benefit of the people. All mankind bears witness to it. In 2015 thirty thousand people die a day from hunger! These are the deadlocks. Of course, Mr. Georgiadis is gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u292	I'm here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u293	Oh, here you are. I'm sorry, but you went and sat back. The great achievement of the New Democracy is that of joining the European Union which some did not understand, but they understand it today, Mr Georgiadis. They understood it very well all the previous years with a capitalist system again, when Greece from an industrialised country, when Greece with a positive trade balance became exactly the opposite, when wealth was sanctified and concentrated in a few hands, with the result that 1% of the world's population held 99% of wealth. The same is true in the European Union of about 2% -3%. These are the results. And of course, don't think - and I want to tell you with all the honesty and beyond politics - that even the people who vote for you sleeps. He may still be scared, but your own fans see it, all of you, and they say "you're right" and look for a way. There is only a way to make him decide, outside the European Union, outside the imperialist organizations, with the economy in the hands of the people. There is wealth, unstoppable wealth. Finally - and I close, Madam President - and thank you very much - I would like to give an answer because yesterday and in a cowardly way, as usual, the Parliamentary spokesman for the Fascist Golden Dawn has raised some historical issues. He spoke of Lambrakis and spoke of World War II. I mean, not to them, but to the Greek people, that they're trying to put a suit on now. They try to get rid of what the Greek people know about what Golden Dawn is and they've known it all over the previous years, from the parades, from hunting with knives and stacks of impoverished immigrants, from terrorism, from what they did the previous period, from not hiding that they believed in fascism. Now they're trying to appear as innocent pigeons. He caught in his mouth Gregory Lambrakis and gave a lousy post here, vomit. Of course, it's not a surprise. Geebbels is their ideal, and Hitler is. They're hiding now. They have no courage to defend what they really believe. And they even talked about the murder Gregory Lambraki. Do you know who killed him? Your political ancestors. Gotzamanis, Emmanoulidis, Josmash. I know them, I met them personally in Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u294	Are you addressing me, Mr. Paphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u295	Mrs. Sveroni, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u296	You will also give me the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u297	These killers - stabbing knives, partners of the Germans, renting spikes, underworld, pulling knives, we've lived all this. These were the golden ones of the time that were embedded in that parastate. They killed him. They murdered him. That's what they were and don't try. They were like your people who were hunting with knives of immigrants here and beaten them and imposed violence and terror, of course, on all the neighborhoods.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u298	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Palphie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u300	And now you're trying and in the face of the trial to present another person. The Greek people must not forget that. And they said about World War II. They're hiding again. Those who had headlines for Hitler in their newspaper, those who were celebrating Hitler's birthday, those who were celebrating the birthday of Goebbels - I will bring them to you here, I will send you a whole volume to have him - today they are trying to get away and even say - and the pact is the famous Molotov - Rimbredop etc. You know, a nightmare can't be avoided. It's the hammerhead with the red flag at Reichstag on top of Hitler's suicide. This will always be chasing you, and that is why we say the Greek people do not fall into the trap of the enthusiasm of those who believe in fascism are trying today to show themselves to be something different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u301	Madam President, I beg your pardon, but I ask why...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u302	Mrs. Sveroni, I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u303	Madam President, Mr Pafilis has addressed me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u304	Have a seat, I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u305	You haven't given me the floor, but it was directed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u306	And he appealed to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-nine students and students and four educational attendants from the 16th Municipal School of Chania. The Greek Parliament welcomes you, boys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor has been given, as it had been announced, by the Parliamentary spokesman of PASOK Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos and followed by the Parliamentary Representative from Potamis Theocharis Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Madam President. Since the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Georgiadis, reminded us of the late Karamanlis who joined our country in the EEC, I would like to say to you, Mr Georgiadis, that after Karamanlis, the late Andreas Papandreou, the famous Memorandum - it was another kind of memorial - with which our country has then set out the unfavourable conditions with which it has been integrated and won in many respects, with the first and characteristic example the Mediterranean integrated programmes which have been the pretext of the European Union's regional policies, because there are still, unfortunately, the enormous inequality of North and South, developed and undeveloped countries. And then, Mr Georgiadis, Kostas Simitis, who, after having achieved the objectives of Maastricht, which we voted on in the prophetic speech at the time by Andrea Papandreou, then, on whether developments will lead to German Europe or European Germany, joined the country with its sword in EMU. And many came to question this success, including some in your area, unfortunately, who were talking about creative accounting. And the last to question this success, Mr Georgiadis, is Mr. Tsipras the other day, who told us from this step forward that we will resolve the problem of the country by political negotiation, as we then entered EMU, to remind him of Mr. Venizelos from this step, also that Greece's finances were much better than Italy, and if there was a political goal, Italy was to join EMU, because it is a large industrial country belonging to the G7 and therefore Greece was headed by Italy. And where are we now, dear ladies and gentlemen, to leave Mr. Georgiadis and come to Mrs. Gerovasili, four months after the takeover of authority by you? We are at the point of jeopardising this great achievement of the Greek people, which has been achieved with labor and sacrifices, in order to be a full equal member of the European Union and our country and making use of this environment, to have become one of the countries that had the best standard of living in the world, much better than these examples you and your comrades bring us here. And I fully understand the objections of the Communist Party of Greece, which have an ideological content in relation to the European Union's character, although an old Marxist or Leninist would say, that you may more than ever achieve overthrowing within a regional integration, rather than enclosed in a nation-state. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this anti-Europeanism, which is being expelled every day from the lips of your executives, who are denounced by the partners, the blackmailers, the loan sharks, as you wish - and I do not need to go around in their broadcasts or statements - is a dangerous anti-European line leading to national isolation and a premium for false patriotism, which our country has often paid him, and to 'do not pay and see what happens' to them. Four months later, the country was in the sketch because it was necessary, as demonstrated by Mr Tsipras's presence in the Ministry of Finance yesterday, to be able to understand that the country is hanging in a thread - totally hung on a thread - and decisions are difficult. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will either take measures that will be painful for the Greek people or lead the country to a complete disaster. There's no other way. The political negotiation that Mr Tsipras says, invoking the interventions of the SYRIZA pro-Atlantic section to Mr Obama and Mr Liu, has proved to be a fruitful hope, because the G7 have come to tell you, okay, but you are moving to an agreement. The climate of optimism in which Mr Tsipras wrote to us yesterday - and you also wrote it in the paper - the agreement came to be disproved by Mr Sapen and by the institutions for which Mr Varoufakis today, if you saw his answer to Mr Cremastino about VAT on the islands, he said that we are being blackmailed - not our partners, but the institutions. So, the institutions are different from the partners? We're going crazy in the end! When he goes to sign an agreement, as Mr Tsipras says, after a meeting yesterday with all the financial staff, today Mr Varoufakis makes charges against those who want to get their signature and agree. Would you completely drive us crazy? You also told us that this agreement would have a redistributive character. I've read a little of the pasta Karagiorga in my youth, I'm going crazy. Is there a tax on consumption with a redistributive character? Can VAT be redistributive? VAT is paid by the final consumer. There's no other recipe. You also told us that you would not cut wages and pensions. We put this as a red line and told you to follow it. And what are you talking about? You say 'yes, we will open the insurance market to unify the funds'. You know, Mrs Gerovazis, that you preceded at Stepha that the funds have consolidated them and there are only three funds: one for the employees, one for the self-employed and one for the farmers. What are you going to unify? You also told us that you would not take any real measures. The measures costing 4 billion, 5 billion - I do not know how much billions will ultimately be spent - who will be charged? Will they be burdening the rich only? I wish you could find them and charge them. But be careful what the Treasury announced yesterday. Yesterday, the Ministry of Finance announced and put in the consultation the proposal on money laundering that has gone abroad with 15% and the one that is inside with 30%. Did you ask Mr. Nicoludis for commenting on why we didn't check the lists? Didn't you blame us here because we haven't speeded up the checks to pay all those who've made the money abroad and which we've done by institutional procedures, by opening up the accounts, by the introduction of the financial prosecutors, we've started to control and for which you've been constantly denouncing us? These cases that are under control today will give them forgiveness of sins and punish those who have their money inside, having them pay 30%? Is that what you're telling us? Is that the redistribution policy against the rich? After the act of legislation that has given fines and increases, now will we also give forgiveness to sin in such a provocative way and, in particular, to people who, in the interests of the efforts of our own governments, have them in a glue of paper? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the way things have been driven is not as simple and optimistic as the government has tried to give them with yesterday's no paper. Things are very difficult and much more complicated and it needs determination, as Mr Tsipras said yesterday. The determination, however, must be demonstrated in an agreement which is in agreement with both his party and his party's parliamentary group, otherwise it does not matter. As long as this is not done, as long as we try to earn time by taking the available 50 000 public bodies to possibly pay the next instalment and get an extension of a few days or get an agreement to earn a little time, the country's problems will be borne and the measures will be increasingly burdensome. We've told you there's no other way. You prevented us from completing the process of exiting the memorandum, which we described: a preventive credit line, a write-down of debt on the basis of the Council's decision in November 2012 and so on. Now, you must present, not an agreement to earn some time and relative liquidity, but an exit plan from the memorandum. And that is what you realise that it cannot be done with the signature of a third memorandum. We are therefore waiting here in Parliament with great interest to see what decisions you will take to bring us. We have called on Mr Tsipras repeatedly to inform the House and he has not done so. In any case, the seasons are unconscious. The knot arrived at the comb and the time of truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Theocharis Theocharis from the river has the floor. He's the last person to speak from the Parliamentary Representatives, because Mr. Poppas...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u310	No, Madam President. I want a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u311	Please, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u312	I want to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u313	I'm saying we're done. Mr. Georgiadis, will you hold on a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Colleague, he'll say a few words now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u315	Well, Mr. Theocharis is the last parliamentary representative because Mr. Poppas exhausted his second language yesterday. We will give Mr Georgiadis the opportunity, immediately after Mr Theocharis, for a minute to make a clarification he wants. In this way, we have completed the debate and we will move on to the vote on the bill. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the moments are crucial. We learn that from the Greek media, unfortunately, only by reflection. They reflect foreign media reports. I've said it before. Let me say this now: from DEUTSCHE WELLE we are learning what is happening, as they did in the occupation and as they did in the dictatorship. The Prime Minister asked us yesterday not to listen to the cassandras. We don't. Close the ears on the cassandra and provide support. Support, of course, also means criticism. Only with criticism can you provide real support, not "yes to everything". But he should follow his contributions. He should not listen to the chant himself and not listen to the drachma troika himself. No one should have any doubts. There is too much money to bet both on the inside and on the outside to get the country to the drachma. He'll have to close his ears. There is a time when every leader should say the big yes or the big one no. It's time for our Prime Minister too. What Kavafis has not told us is that every "yes" has one not and every not has one yes. You choose, choose, choose, and allies, and enemies. That's what he has to do. Don't get tired, don't give in to the Prime Minister and move on. Don't listen to the poodles, and finally learn from the students. The option that you may need to do is not "euro or drachma", "memorandum or non-morandum". It can be "euros with a support and development programme" or "draft with a memorandum of exchange rate support". What SYRIZA can finally bring to this country is also a drachma and a memorial. That has to be considered. This will be a second real Minor Disaster. Listen to us. Listen to the voice of the river. Listen to the voice of Stavros Theodorakis. After all, six months later, what we are saying about which we are being beaten and told by germans, that is what you do six months later. Hey, start over. We'll all be happy. In the debt we told you there was no haircut. Now, the Finance Minister says 'we have agreed not to say it'. Whispered ‘cutting’. We tell you what negotiation means: you give, you take, they give and take. You want to take both sides from austerity and from reforms. Hey, there's no that. You'll see. You see it now, sadly. As far as Distomos was concerned, when he dared to say that it is not possible to make seizures at the Goethe Institute, the parrots fell to eat him that he is German. We welcome the attitude of the Minister of Justice present yesterday, who explained to us that no such matter is raised. Well, that's what we were talking about. Luckily, it's late than never. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The world is anxious, ladies and gentlemen. He's asking us on the street. We're even asked by journalists and friends of ours. Are we close? What's gonna happen? Are we gonna have a deal? The answer we give is yes and no. We're close, but we're far away. If we're serious, yes, we're close. There are certain differences now. Differences are defined. These differences the government must put them down. He has to make priorities to decide what he's fighting and what he's giving. One call - give it up - we've said it again - the negotiation. And a parentheses. The government is still moving with internal logic. He's trying to delay the negotiation, bring her overnight, so he can't get the party to know what kind of deal he's got. And he says he has to bring in the big deal. If he brings the big deal, gentlemen, when the country is three days or ten days away from bankruptcy, he will give in. The big deal is wrong to be when you're weak. The big deal has to be done when you're strong, when you have confidence in the people you're negotiating. It must therefore bring in a small agreement, implement it in the summer, strengthen its position, and then, in September, in October, make the essential negotiation. It is wrong now to bring an overall agreement to internal consumption for reasons only. You will get 1/10 of what you can achieve in September and October, if you govern, because you are still not ruling. Otherwise, the solution will come from the outside. Tomorrow you'll be sure he'll come from Dresden the first bell. Next week he can come from Brussels or Berlin, and certainly Monday, not the one that comes from us, the Holy Spirit, but one week later, he will come from Berlin. There, however, control can be lost. If the solution comes from outside, if we go worse in an accident, control will be lost, and that is the first rule of governance. I don't know why you can't do at least the basics in governance. You never lose control. That is why governments never go to war except as a last resort, because they do not control things. So we never lose control. Can you not respond to the simple everyday life here, can you not respond to hospital gauzes and will you respond to the accident or the shift to the drachma? Let's get serious. People understand, they don't eat gossip. Set priorities, we'll see you again. It is not priorities for him to sign, when we have no gauze in hospitals, we do not have 3,000 euros to send our children to the IT and mathematics Olympics, and we call them "take sponsors". This is where the JRC is right. You're privatizing education from the window. Grants to Olympics for the first step, a little - a little and then we'll go to the rest of the privatizations. And is the President of Parliament signing a Committee of Friends, who are taking them along and traveling to a CDE of 3.6 million? Immediate committees, which have been abolished everywhere and have now been left here with signatures from the President of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u317	When did this happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u318	Yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u319	Of course, yesterday. Let the President of Parliament come and explain to the House what these committees are. We started with the free YouTube videos, then we saw them, we liked them and we took them to the subway, again free, no cost, and now we have committees to view the work of the Parliament with 3.5 million. To explain to us how we went from the free videos to 3.5 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u320	You are not saying how much the remuneration of the members of the board of directors of the Financial Stability Fund has been reduced, 40%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u321	Good for you! Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u322	Mrs. Kozobol, please. He's talking about this article. He's very specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u323	Ten Financial Stability Funds has just signed by the President. Remunerated marketing? Remunerated marketing cannot be allowed. Well, get serious. Stop statements and non papers and close the deal. You have a few days. The frustrations come after each other. First our hopes for Mrs. Merkel to kick out the IMF. Then Mr Liu will intervene in favour of the country, so we will be saved and mitigated. Four times he called and said, "Please, Prime Minister, give me something to help you." Plus, Athena and the hand is on. The solution, ladies and gentlemen, is not in Berlin, is not in Brussels, is not in Frankfurt or Washington. The solution lies a few meters away from here, in Maximos. We wait for her like the entire Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u324	Thank you. He has asked for the floor and will take the Minister for a few minutes for some amendments, and then Mr Georgiadis will be here to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first amendment, signed by Mr Leucakos, Mr Stathas, Mrs Haitani and many other members of the SYRIZA, concerns the extension of a deadline for applying for the system of debt arrangements to the insurance funds. The Ministry accepts this amendment. It solves us a real problem because we've been in the last few days that we've been able to settle debts in the insurance funds until 2 June. The tails are huge in the insurance funds. The debtors cannot be served, and it is necessary for that reason in practice. At the same time, I should like to inform Parliament that so far, now, on the information I have received today, despite the economic difficulties that exist, small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed companies and other undertakings have responded to this regulation of their debts. Now, 16.00 hours a day, with the figures today, debts of about 4.2 billion euros to the insurance funds. Some ninety-five thousand debtors have entered the insurance arrangement, all two hundred thousand with the latest elements of electronic regulation by night and we have received some EUR 150,000 in the insurance funds as the first instalment. Therefore, for reasons of avoidance of the suffering of the debtors conspiring to the insurance funds to make arrangements, but also for essential reasons, because it seems to be an effective regulation, which helps both the relaunching of the economy and the financial relief of the insurance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u326	How many of these are set? Do you have the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u327	Please, then you can make the comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u328	Yeah, I do. It's a reasonable question. Mr. Theochari, I'm going to give tables tomorrow and with Friday's figures. It's only 8%. In other words, the positive one - because I said that your question is very appropriate - is that 92% of the arrangements are new regulations and only 8% are transfers. But I'll give the House tomorrow and publicity precise tables, analyses, etc. I therefore thank the Minister who has proposed his bill of competence and has already accepted the amendment. A second amendment concerns school guards. They had a deadline to settle their insurance issues, to identify, that is, the time that was in work experience as an insurance year. In view of the fact that there have been some interference with the interpretations given by the competent authorities, we have had to give three more months to settle these insurance rights. Thank you for that, too. The Minister responsible has already accepted it, I just wanted to explain politically and socially and economically why we, as a competent ministry, are accepting the two amendments tabled by Members. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u329	Minister, may I ask you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u330	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u331	You don't have the floor. Did you ask for him from me? What about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u332	I need a minute for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u333	By way of derogation, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u334	Minister, I would like to ask whether the debts in March are also in the amendment to the extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u335	The March debts had entered because they were due by April 1st. In any case, however, we will see it with the implementative circular and deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u336	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u337	Mr Georgiadis has asked for the floor and we will give it to him for very few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u338	As Mr Solana came, we should put a little on the amendments. Minister, have you measured whether the last extensions of the arrangements introduced a culture of no one paying on time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u339	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u340	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u341	Have you counted it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u342	Yeah. Can I answer to have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u343	No, Minister, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u344	Let's answer. I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u345	Please sit down until my colleague is finished. He's submission his question, note. We cannot have this dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u346	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u347	No, no! Minister, you don't have the floor. Have a seat. Mr. Georgiadis, finish your speech and the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u348	The New Democracy has supported the regulation you have made and we have supported the extension that you have made...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u349	And now you will support us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u350	...and we will support you today. You, however, have the responsibility - take note - of the fact that the feeling of 'children, don't pay anyone, they will all go into regulation' in our home country. That is what you must know, Minister, is in danger of creating a hole and breaking down both the funds and the state and everything. If that happens, the military will have it. Third extension is this in a row, I would remind you. There's gonna be another fourth?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u351	No, that's the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u352	That's what you said last time, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u353	You didn't ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u354	I asked you. Okay. Just understand, though. This is where things get out of hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Georgiadis, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u356	Like the second regulation, in the second amendment to school guards, you know that it is an extension of the older regulation of Mr Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u357	Yeah, I've said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u358	Yes, it is an extension of Mr Brutsi's older regulation. But be careful of something. As you know, the dates are to be observed. If there is a feeling in our country that nothing is being observed and that no date has any meaning and that, however, a Minister will come to give an extension, we will never build a state. So let us show our great heart again, but note that if you do this all the time, we will not vote, you will not vote for a memorandum, which I hope you will vote for, so that you too can join the memorandum club. Now I want to give two quick answers to what has been heard in the Chamber. First, Mr. Koutsuko. But I see that Mr. Koutsukos is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u359	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u360	I'm sorry, I didn't see you. First of all, I do not despise any successes that have been made by many people who have ruled Greece and who have not belonged to my party. The Mediterranean integrated programmes were a success of Andreas Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u361	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u362	But be careful! Answer me. The Mediterranean integrated programmes were a success of Andreas Papandreou. It was a success, Mr President - take note - of Andreas Papandreou within the EEC, which Andreas Papandreou fought with the famous slogan 'EEC and NATO itself'. So Andreas Papandreou came and made a success by following the footsteps of the great Constantine Karamanlis. Let's get together! Because if it had not been for us by the late Constantine Karamanlis in Europe, Andreas will slowly not have completed the Mediterranean programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u363	About ELSTAT? For the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u364	And I'm passing a little fast on the rest that Andreas did, because I want to answer the JRC, and I'm going to answer you like that. He said before Mr Pafilis, Mr President, at that time he warned the JRC when Greece was going to enter the EEC and listed various economic indicators at that time. And he said that Greece had a positive agricultural balance, it was an industrial country, it had a low debt and then it entered Europe, they implied that they were lost. I am pleased that the JRC recognises how good Greece was in the right, which at the time ruled. This is an extremely pleasant admission. Indeed, the right of Constantine Karamanlis had a country and an industrial one, and with a positive agricultural balance, he had a country with a low debt. We gave Greece a doll to Andreas, Mr. Koutsouko. We handed her over to the KIC. Now how you made it a few years later, I think we're living in this country and we know it. The concern of the New Democracy, however, today, Mr President, is not to repeat the same story at the very worst, because, in my opinion - and I shall close - is the argument that SYRIZA said 'the first time left'. It's a completely false argument. The slogans of Andreas Papandreou in 1981 were much more left than today's SYRIZA. I am very afraid, however, that if you follow these tracks, Mr. Army, and because of the amendments you have just tabled, you will not take the country to the rocks, you will not take the country to the economic disaster that Andreas took and the debt went seven times over, but you will take the country out of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Georgiadis, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u366	You have a huge responsibility, Minister, and you personally will be able to keep the country thirty-six years later in the field of Europe in which the national authority of Constantine Karamanlis led it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u367	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u368	Just a minute, Minister. First of all, the debate - I take responsibility and say it - in the time I have heard from the moment I took over from the Chair is out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u369	Out of the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u370	I would like to ask, therefore, especially those who are often protesting reasonably and correctly, that the debate or comments are outside of the question not to fall into the same error. I am sure that all or almost all of the comments you want to make from here are out of the question. I'm not willing to allow it. Anyone who wants to talk about the bill will take the floor for a minute, but not to make reports - I won't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u371	Please, Mr President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u372	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u373	You want the floor on the bill, Mr. Pappa?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u374	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u375	You, Mr. Kutsuko, on the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u376	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Pappas, by way of derogation, because your time is over, has the floor on the bill. But to be disciplined and serious, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for a minute. When I say a minute, I mean it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I am not speaking in any way. I am speaking as a parliamentary representative, if you have not been informed, of the bill we are discussing. I say this for your information, So I take the floor. I had no intention, no intention of saying it better, to take the floor if this Chamber chaired by Vice-President Charalabidou did not take the floor by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, who made unauthorised designations once again for our political movement. Mr President, these designations to the Members, the voters, the followers, the collegiate ones - if you like - were not allowed - because we too misled voters of the JRC consider them to be collegiate, regardless of whether the leadership trades their votes. I therefore call on the Bureau and the colleagues in question - let me tell them - of the JRC to stop having their fantasies. We are not, gentlemen, in Berlin, 1945. We are located in Athens, 2015. You're trying to resurrect and create...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Pappa, you're out of the question too now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u380	As Mr Pafilis was out of the question and was allowed to speak to him, I too am allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u381	Okay. Please complete, because there are other members' obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, the JRC, which is derogating from the Constitution in this Chamber, should show a greater modesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u383	Did you hear that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u384	It is the party which, if you see its statute, refuses the Constitution and calls...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u385	He refuses your ideology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u386	Ladies and gentlemen, just a minute. We're not going back forty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u387	You're a criminal organization. The story has proved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u388	I'll finish and you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Lambroulis, please, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u390	That's your ideology. Your story has been condemned by the people of Europe and by the whole world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Lambroulis, don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u392	You're fascism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u393	You're rude.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u394	Do you have the guts with the hoodmen talking about the JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Lambroulis, please don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, I have the floor. So the JRC, and I'm finishing...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u397	In the Bureau, Mr Pappa, you will be able to complete it. You asked me for a minute and we're at three.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u398	You have the courage to falsify the reality and the truth about Gregory Lambrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u399	So I call on all those with the rich wages and pensions, such as Mrs Papayannakis or Mrs Kanelle, to show a modestness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u400	You're not ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u401	I will finish and stand up to no words of mine. I will stand by the words of one - and we will say it from the Golden Dawn, we have no problem - of relentless politician, George Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u402	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u403	We're going to Lambrakis. You're patient. I say this with knowledge my word, a relentless politician, George Papandreou, who had described the Communist Party of Greece as a party of crime and treason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u404	You're done, Mr. Pappa. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u405	I have my time, Mr President. I will also stand by the words of a great Greek hiker and scholar, Nikolaos Kazantzakis, who said that "Communism is spiritual crusts".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u406	And Papadopoulos said that from this Step and swinging the finger on the people! If he has a point of view to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u407	You're done, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Bright, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u408	No, we're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u409	Prove with your attitude and your position the purposes and ideology of your actions, for which you have been dragged into the courts, those of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u410	With regard to Lambrakis now, because your colleague Mr Kaklamanis has asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Pappa, you're done. You're not going to have a lecture now on issues outdated. You said your opinion, it's respected! You're done now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u412	How much time did the other Parliamentary Representatives have?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u413	Did you get the floor? I ask Mr Pappas to respect what we agreed to! You first don't have the floor. Mr. Poppa, you asked me for something, I gave it to you, you're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u414	I'd like to make an explanation for the photographs of Lambraki. These photographs can be made available to everyone for expertise. Lambrakis welcomes eight days before the Italian invasion with a tense right. It hurts you because you're scared!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u415	You're a slander! This is an insult and you must not allow it, Mr President. I request that you be removed at this time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u416	These photos were posted before...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u417	Mr. Pappa, you're done! I'm turning off your microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u418	You've always been murderers. You said 'price and glory to the battalions'!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u419	It hurts you! Go to Moscow to necrophilize Lenin's relic and remains, Stalin's remains!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u420	Bring the photo you're like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u421	Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u422	You're a nice democracy, you're a nice Bureau!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u423	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u424	I want half the time from the man I'm entitled to. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I address you, respecting your encouragement, since the debate has been completed in a smooth manner. But you, too, know from your experience that it is the duty of the parliamentary representatives to intervene when political issues arise. I would therefore like to make two comments, which is why I have said that I want half the time. My first point is that Parliament must protect itself when the remembrances of democracy, such as Gregory Lambrakis, are insulted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u425	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u426	And other things we have to do as a Parliament, when these insulting expressions are being heard for heroes and fighters of democracy. My second remark is on the occasion of Mr Georgiadis' intervention. I listen to it in relative tolerance, because Mr Georgiadis was not a member of those governments who received the debt and deficit half and doubled it. I'm talking, Mr. Georgiades, about your report on how we delivered Greece. So look at Greece's budgets in 2004 and 2009 and then we'll talk about it. That was my brief intervention. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr. Theocharis has the floor and then we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I too would like to speak for two minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, I too would like to make two brief comments on the delayed amendments which the government has accepted. The first point is that, in the end, the derogation seems very sweet! We have started well, with great announcements, that we will not accept interventions and derogations. We did one, for the sake of law and his reasonable request, and now the avalanche begins! Everything is extraordinary, everything is important and we must not lose them, and finally I see that this path of derogations is too slippery. I say that with knowledge and compliance, so that we don't at least make fun of the people who see us. Don't say these majestics, at least from now on. I hope the government doesn't do that. The second is something that Mr Georgiadis also mentioned in relation to compliance. If the arrangements, which are part of the revenues, were successful, then we would have some kind of increase. But, from the figures published for the state budget, we see that the funds are being narrowed. And they are narrow, because people are paying for the arrangements, to save what they are getting away with and leaves unpaid current instalments and debts that they should pay. So eventually, the public's lost. Because he's giving and he's not collecting it eventually. And if the government at last would want to give a solution to the procedural questions of the queues that taxpayers and insured persons want to take part in the arrangement, let it give a protocol number, let it bring in a provision and say: 'With protocol number until the day after tomorrow, these applications will be handled while they are taken. And two and three months." In the end, it will also give a solution to taxpayers and insured persons who want to get into the arrangements. Not to give extensions on extensions and eventually to consolidate this climate of battering, that is to say, 'category, the arrangements are like buses. Wait and if you've lost this, it'll go through another, more spacious and better." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u431	We didn't start this debate. It's all done. I would first like to reply to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mr. Georgiadis, don't you have any other arguments and you're trying to use arguments from the JRC? I told you Greece was a capitalist country. If you want to talk about Greece, to which you say you were not born, but we happened to be born and lived, we know who Greece was. Even strikes were forbidden. Laskaris had abolished the class struggle by law. People lived in misery then. Industrial development, of course, existed. It was capitalist development and Greece had treasured. Because there are younger people who do not know, I inform them that the growth of Greece after the war was based on the blood of the worker, who received the money from the IKA who paid and gave it to the industrialists. The majestics of the time, for example Bodosaki, Chachoi, and many others, I can say, did not put 10% on. They were given the mountains of Greece that were full of ores, they were given the workers' money, so they won. They didn't give any increases, they had the Dahau regime, and when they were going to make modernizations they gave up. Then came the PASOK, loaded them to the people and gave them back for free. That was the story of capitalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u432	Finish it, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u433	I'll finish. I won't be long. I said I'll talk about two issues, don't cut me off. Not in the cuts. So we are talking about this development path as it was. You have all come out and told the Greek people that we will go out in the European Union, we will become entrepreneurs, Greece will triumph in Europe's markets, farmers will become Farmers and so on. That's what you said! So today, in the face of the barbaric reality of the European Union, do not go with the tricks of borrowing what the JRC says, because the JRC says exactly the opposite. Secondly, on the matter of the Golden Dawn, I do not want to go on because this is where we know each other. I just want to make a point about the Minutes: please, what I said to put them with bold (instant) and capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u434	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed the debate. It is simply because I am not used to comment and you know it - I cannot fail to give in to the temptation to say that the debate we have been having lately was out of the question. Nor can I give the temptation to say that there was a reference to Gregory Lambraki yesterday, which we honoured with one minute of silence and this estimation of honour participated - and I think that is a good thing - in all the wings of this House. I think the report today was outside of this climate. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is finalised: "Publication of payment orders for claims by an administrative contract concluded under trade and other provisions" and their vote will be taken separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u441	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. We shall now vote on the amendments. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 156 and a special number 12, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u448	The amendment with a general number 156 and a special 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 157 and a special number 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u451	Yeah. If I am not mistaken, the last paragraphs have been deleted. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u453	You're right, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u454	That was the only change. We are voting 'yes'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u455	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u456	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u458	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 157 and a special 13 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 158 and a special number of 14?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u459	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u462	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u465	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 158 and a specialist of 14 has been accepted as it stands, by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 159 and a special number of 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u469	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u472	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 159 and a special 15 was accepted as it is, by a majority, part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u476	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u477	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u479	The office of departure was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. The Law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Publishing a payment order for claims by an administrative contract concluded in the context of a trade transaction and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u480	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u482	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u483	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u487	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Publishing a payment order for claims under an administrative contract concluded in the course of trade and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in only one debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u488	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-28-S1-commons.u489	With the consent of the House at 16.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, May 29, 2015 at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) the debate on topical questions; b) the debate on the number 6/5/4-2015 question of Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject: "Public projects".
