ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The second question under number 171/28-4-2015 will be discussed first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis to the Minister of National Defence on the modernisation of naval cooperation aircraft. In this timely question, the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos will answer. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 7-4-2015, I had tabled a question to you and to the Commission on Defence and Diplomacy, which was followed, concerning this question, and you have also tabled a note on it. However, I think there are some issues which have been left unanswered. That is why I am coming back to this timely question. I would first like to make it clear that I am not here, of course, because I question the need for maritime cooperation aircraft. Obviously, the Navy needs them and we are obviously not the first country to modernise nor the first country to follow the practice of the transnational agreement. However, what creates unanswered questions is why our country has to pay right now, with the budgetary situation we have, about $100 million for each. And I'm explaining. In fact, I will also submit to the Minutes an independent expert report to the British Parliament, dated 19 September 2012, on the very same issue, which refers to the most suitable solution for Great Britain on the issue of maritime surveillance. Very briefly, Minister, the cost of modernising the P -3, according to this report, is £30 to £37 million for each, i.e. about EUR 41 to 50 million. Germany has modernised eight aircraft of the same or newer type via FMS to 42m euros each, New Zealand likewise, Brazil with 41m euros, while the most expensive modernisation was from Australia, at a cost of EUR 50m per aircraft. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The question, therefore, arises - and indeed inconsistently - whether a convincing answer is to be given to the great discrepancy in the cost of modernising our own aircraft in relation to those countries - and even more modern than those countries - and how much more than that, for two years now, there has been a letter from the contractor, which determines the modernisation of aircraft as economically inconsistent. I would also like an explanation as to whether this letter of May 2013 was taken into account and why it was rejected. Why, Minister, cannot the company say in 2013 that it is financially inconsistent and comes after two years and tells us that we can actually move on. Both at the same time cannot be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Kammenos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think that first of all in your questions Mr Dendias, the former Minister of National Defence, who actually not only signed this programme but also a few days ago on television, came out and supported the government's choice - not the Government, the Hellenic Navy - to proceed with the signature. As far as time is concerned, I should first of all like to say that it was signed on the last day that the last date was set by the Americans to accept the Senate's decision. The system of financing by the US Government is not a corporate agreement with the Greek Ministry of Defence. It is a transnational agreement between the United States and the Greek Government. So on the day when the last date for the agreement was over, we signed and took the decision of the KYSEA to proceed with the programme, signed by the former Prime Minister and Head of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, the Head of PASOK, Mr Evangelos Venizelos, Mr Gika Hardouvelis, former Minister Dimitris Avramopoulos, former Minister of State, Mr Dinopoulou, Mr Dendia, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Mr Manatis, Mr Kikilias, Mr Varvitsiotis and Mr Stamatis. I therefore address the decision of the CSCE with the signatures of all New Democracy officials as government and all PASOK officials for this programme, with the specific arrangement, with the specific payment and specific instalments. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the transnational agreements will tell you that they are without interest. That is, essentially, funding from the US public for the purchase of this armaments. Several numbers are heard and written in a Sunday newspaper almost every week. It's not real. Basically, this $499 million is the ceiling. There's no program that doesn't have a 20% or 30% discount. So we're talking about 350 million dollars. Of the 350 million dollars, 150 million dollars are to be awarded first to the Greek Air Industry, to the EAA. Is there any Greek who doesn't want to secure the work of the ODA for seven years? We are basically talking about non-DAB money, which is about $200 million, with which Greece has planes that the Hellenic Navy has judged and three previous governments to be absolutely necessary. As far as the other tenders are concerned, I too have heard about Australian and have read a question from a colleague from Potami. I give you officially, therefore, that the Australian Government paid $2.15 billion to upgrade its aircraft. I submit the document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the record the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Germany has done the same, which is the country of production of the aircraft, which is allegedly the competitor. We should not, therefore, be misled by these questions which are brought on the side of representatives who have lost the 'bizna'. Because that's actually the job. What would be the other solution? The other solution would be for this government to say: 'We reject the recommendations of the Navy, we believe that the suggestions of all the previous governments were from the evil one and we go to the market for new aircraft'. How much would the new aircraft, which are of the other type, cost what Turkey uses? They would, he says, cost EUR 250 million less. What does 250m euros mean for a new plane? It means that this plane, purchased with 250 million, has included in it the value of having the aircraft only. We would lose 49 million that was the spare parts, which are currently there for PB -3, we would lose about 10 million, which is the money of the engines we have - they are new engines for PB -3- and of course all the training. Do you know how much the cost of the other company was? It was 1 billion euros. I couldn't sign and go to jail. Since the Navy has this requirement, since all governments have agreed, since the competitive bid was twice as much as the existing one, then the option was one, which we signed. As far as the old and worthless are concerned, I would like to tell you this. Do you know what chronology the B-52 bombers of the United States are? It's 1950. At the moment we are talking about BOEING, the United States Air Force buys all the old engines of a particular type of Boeing to replace the eight B-52 engines. These aircraft, as they upgrade, are practically new. We have a guarantee from 'LOCKHEED MARTIN', from the manufacturer plus 'Follow on Support', that for the next few years these planes will be available to us. Do you know when we get the first plane? Within 12 months. In twelve months the first aircraft will be delivered. With the other solution of 1 billion, which many representatives and publishers seem to want, the first aircraft we would receive would be in nineteen months - and if we received it - up to twenty-five months. Do you know how much advance we had to pay? We had to pay 30%. In other words, instead of disbursing 42 million that we are disbursing for this year, we should disburse in the first year 85 million. So that's the truth. All the other things that are heard are pretexts, pretexts which even the operators belonging to the New Democracy themselves, the former Minister, Mr. Dendias, but also all those who say 'yes', but not now'. There is no 'not now'. Either now or this programme and the approval of Congress would have lost it. That's what the current government did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u6	Minister, because you have repeatedly stated that you will respect the Greek people's money, especially as regards armaments programmes, I will be allowed to tell you that your explanations were not so sufficient. The same in the information note, which you gave us in the Committee on Defence last week, says that, taking into account the different situation of the period before 2009, five new aircraft were selected at the corresponding cost of the P-3B total cost of EUR 250 million, that is, EUR 50 million one, and even an international tender. And I wonder how, in 2009 and even before the crisis, the Ministry of National Defence had budgeted about half the budget for the same aircraft? You are also talking in the information note about the benefits the Greek Defence Industry will have. In 2009, when the similar design had been made, I wonder, was the design for the Greek Defence Industry not taken into account? I imagine that the same questions were asked by you and by your party in the 2014 Arms Commission by Mrs Koundoura, the State Secretary for Tourism, had not voted in favour of these programmes. And Mr Dritsas, the current Minister for Maritime Affairs, representing SYRIZA, had voted against this programme, even saying that it must have taken precedence in order to move forward with these programmes. I wanted to know, Minister, and I ask you as a question, what has changed since then in terms of your attitude and you as Independent Greeks and SYRIZA, in relation to the July 2014 Equipment Commission. In your note, too, you claim that this company insisted, that it said - among other things - perhaps in fact, in 2013, lies. In other words, you imply that he insisted on buying used aircraft from the US Navy, precisely because this reasoning did not require us to invest in the Greek Defence Industry. But if that is the case, you have actually chosen to deal with a company which has at least one credibility in doubt and which adjusts its views to whom it has at all times to it. If that is not the case again, I would like you to commit today to bringing to the House, perhaps even at the next meeting of the Committee on Defence, the report on the company's technical scale - the last - confirming that the choice made by the Ministry of National Defence is ultimately the most economic and operational correct, so that we can compare it to the initial position of the company in May 2013. I now come to the last question I asked you in the timely question concerning the Secretary-General of the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Tafyllis. I would like you to tell me whether you consider it politically and morally acceptable that the same person who has had an indirect professional relationship with this company to be in this position and, above all, where there is, at least in the light of publicity, an investigation into the case of the previous compensatory benefits of the Civil Aviation with the company in which Mr Tabilis was technically head of the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u8	First of all, come and receive the document you are asking for. It's classified, though. You will be aware of this, but do not see it as we have seen in the minutes of the Committee on Equipment, which, Mr President, I would ask for an inquiry to be carried out, because twenty-two years in Parliament, since the Committee on Equipment has been set up, is the first time that the Minutes of the Committee on Equipment have been leaked, without anyone having taken them from the Members. The Committee on Armaments is having a secret debate, and here we have seen the Minutes of the debate on the front page of the paper. I have never taken my life, despite the fact that the chairman of this committee has made a practical point. That means some interests share a lot of money to get cards. As to what you told me about 2009, why don't you ask Mr. Maymarakis why he didn't take it? Mr. Meimarakis was Minister of National Defence. Why didn't the new planes take it with the 2009 programme? Why did the PB-3 set up in 2009 to get the new planes and what finally stopped them? If here, then, we disagree about who will become Head of the New Democracy, if Mr. Dendias has to be hit by the means, if Mr. Meimarakis has to join through or outside, I will not enter that logic, but I will tell you that we are following the proposals of the Navy rather than the representatives. Why doesn't it make you any more impression? I'm glad you're a new Member of Parliament who took over the defence sector. The 84 billion programmes from 1998 to 2003, the German programmes, no one was interested in this Chamber? The new submarines, the compensatory benefits they received to open the PIRELLI - Mr Liakunakos took 68 million to open a factory to work Greeks at PIRELLI, 68 million euros, to the Prosecutor, Ms Raikou, are the case - all the programs for which it proved in Germany that there are bribes and 30, 32 and 37 million allowances - are not of interest to the New Democracy? Absolute protection in PASOK? Are you starting to ask about a programme that you signed? Your Prime Minister signed it, your Chief. The answer, then, is clear: in 2009 some set up the aircraft to get a new order. But they didn't get the order, because everyone would go inside. Because they set up aircraft where there were fifty million parts, and where the staff were trained, which if they were upgraded then, you would be right, we would pay 120-130 million dollars and not 500 or 350 dollars, which eventually comes out. But some wanted to take the aircraft from which from 250 million new ones would have, with 20% estimated at 80%, that is 20%, is the acquisition value and 80% of the later "cap" for training, spare parts and the rest, some brokers would have made large supplies. The answer is, therefore, that we, Mr Kefaliannis, follow what is recommended by the Navy. The interiors of the New Democracy must be solved between you. As far as Mr Tafyllis is concerned, the Secretary-General is responsible only for civilian personnel. It shall not sign any document relating to supplies. You chose to hit him. Why? Because she was working - she says - in a sub-manufacturer of 'LOCKHEED'. But the 'LOCKHEED' itself was the company to which Mr Taffilis, who is involved in civil servants, had rejected. And then repeat a post on which he has appealed to Justice, that he has been working for a private armaments company. Mr. Taffilis has been officially working in NATO in recent years. So let's leave the mud in the fan. Let us open up the programmes to see them really and let us not blame your colleagues in the New Democracy who have been ministers. Come along and I give you my word that I have to tell you about all the programmes Mrs Ryku has received for which we can talk for hours here and that a lot of people will go to prison. That's what I promise you. From 84 billion, do you know how much we paid from 2010 to 2015, the broken Shemite government? We paid 30 billion in judgment! We pay for the contracts which we once had from these benches as a New Democracy and as an Opposition I denounced and went indicted by lawsuits, with sues. Do you know how much Mr. Chohatzopoulos has done to me? Do you know all those who were on the Koridal when I was talking about the submarines, how much did they have me across the street? Do you know when we talked about AOs, the monkeys, which the Greek people paid for, how were we in the corner? Now comes the vindication. And instead of you now go out ahead and get the word and the New Democracy can be justified - if you want - for what he was saying at the time, you are now coming and you are partners in PASOK. Oh, man, if we catch the name of Yannos Papantoniou, it's like we've caught the sanctuaries! Come follow this course of law, this race that New Democracy once did before becoming a partner of PASOK. As far as today's programme is concerned, you have no doubts. Mr. Dendias followed the proposal of the Navy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. They will follow three questions to Mr Spirtzi. But first, I will announce three questions that will not be discussed. In particular, the fourth question under number 155/28-4-2015, the fourth question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning measures for the new anti-nuclear period, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The first question under number 161/28-4-2015, the second question of the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy. Anastasios Purchas, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, on the legislative arrangement for the adoption of the Preciousness Claim, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second question, with number 168/28-4-2015, is the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers on "the assignment of our Macedonian name to the Skopje", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The second question under number 545/6-3-2015, by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the recovery of 1.2 billion. which, in the government statements, were 'graved' by the previous government to big business with a specific amendment, will not be discussed and deleted. We will now discuss the first question with the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, first question by the Prime Minister of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the "dismissals and scandalous contracts at the Preveza Toll Station". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr Barkas, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, at the Toll Station of Preveza, they worked from 1-1-2002 to 31-12-2014 eighteen workers, covering fixed and continuous needs. Workers were initially hired under contracts of indefinite duration by the consortium "TEO S.A." and then by "TEO S.A. - MOHOLOS S.A.", while from 1-1-2009, although the consortium was maintained, they worked in the contractor "BEE TECH S.A." with fixed-term work contracts per month or fortnight, without any void period between the signature of the first contract and the next one. However, from 1-1-2015, New Year's, the new contractor "ATTRIBUTIONS S.A." fired all employees and, in their place, hired new low-paid staff through the programs of the NRP. Because there is a direct need for the Greek State to intervene in order to restore legality and re-enter the workers, as there is a serious question of their own and their own family survival. As Article 103 of the Constitution and Clause 5 of Directive 1999/70/EC states that fixed-term contracts may not be concluded to cover fixed-term and fixed-term needs, and therefore contracts signed as fixed-term contracts are in fact fixed-term contracts as they were continuous and cover fixed-term and fixed-term needs. Because in the event of a change in the person of the employer, the self-evident transfer of the employment relationship shall be established, which shall be a principle observed by all the successors except for the last ‘ATTRIC RULES S.A.’. Ask yourself, Mr Minister: will you take the necessary steps to check the new EGNATIA S.A. Convention with the 'ATTRIAL DRIVERS S.A.' to include workers in the company's staff, as was the case in all previous conventions? What action do you intend to take to re-enter the workers? Will the Greek State continue to use contractors to maintain the road network and if so, will you adopt a clause on the employment contracts of the previous workforce? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr Barkas. Minister Spirtzis has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barcas, it is well known that the institutional framework has been eroded in relation to the working framework in force in the country under the responsibility of the previous governments and that the positions of the government are also known in relation to the ways chosen by the previous governments in general, not only for the construction, but also for the operation and maintenance of the motorways. You will also see in the responses of EGNATIA S.A. the above-mentioned political guidelines containing a basic legal documentation. The feasibility is obvious: New workers with no rights with very low wages. Over the next few days in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour - because, although our Ministry is involved in maintenance and operation, the matter also touches on the responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour - and on the association of workers who have sent us a similar letter, we will consider the matter. In addition to monitoring the new contract and the re-entry provision for its staff, we need to deal with what workers and debt issues have until recently informed us. Evidently for maintenance of road network were always used as contractors, contractors. If I understand well from your question, you include function, not just maintenance. We would not be unequivocally opposed, provided that, firstly, labour rights are guaranteed, and secondly, that there is a reliable public control system, which does not exist, not only for this point, but also for the rest of the motorways, as well as for concession projects. Of course, there must be accurate and modern tariffs for the construction, operation and maintenance of public infrastructures, which do not exist. So here we have two directions. One way is institutional in order to secure a new system of invoicing public maintenance and operation. Secondly, the working rights of workers are guaranteed so that we do not have such unwanted situations and a eruption of the real working framework that must exist in the country that no longer exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Barca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listen positively to your reply that contracts with road and road administration companies should be reviewed. Here, we have a flagrant violation of labour rights and human labour procedures, which have for years been in their hands the fate of motorways and the management of tolls. These are people who are family leaders, and from one day to the next they were on the road, in fact, by a company, which seems to be human interests - I can say it, I have no problem, Mr Leonidas Bobola - who managed to find one and a half million euros and deliver it to the Greek public as a result of tax evasion. So this man was able to lay off eighteen workers who, for thirteen years, gave their lives to the tolls of Akti. I know, Minister, that the government aims to review all contracts. I think we need to make a commitment - and they were our commitment in the run-up to the elections - that we will be claiming people who were on the road from one moment to the next and without delay left without work and who have been unemployed, to return to work immediately. We have nothing with the new workers who work in these companies. Besides, they are children, who work uninsuredly for four hundred euros. Nevertheless, the flagrant violation of labour rights and the right to work for those people who have been fighting the tolls of the Coast for 15 years, I think it should be a government commitment. You and the relevant ministry must also be able to discuss this with me - I think you have the power, but if you consider it to be the case, you must also discuss this with another co-determination minister - so that these people can come back to their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you too, Mr Barcas. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u16	I have nothing to add, Mr President, to something. I shall submit for Mr Barkas the Egnatia document to prove what we are saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. The sixth question will then be discussed under number 130/21-4-2015. Second question by the Member of Parliament, Atolokarnania, of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the reduction of the cost of crossing the "Harilaos Trikoupis" bridge in western Greece. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the 'Harila Trikoupis' bridge is the most important project in the country's infrastructure and development. It is the link between the road network of the Peloponnese and western Greece. In her eleven years of operation she has forty million passages. The cost of transit, however, does not serve the daily lives of the permanent residents of neighbouring regions and, secondly, does not contribute to the development and strengthening of tourism of the municipalities and municipalities of western Greece. Minister, today, toll prices on the bridge are as follows: For a simple passenger car crossing the cost is EUR 13.20. For transit of return passenger cars after three hours the cost is 13.50 euros. For simple transit of trucks the cost is between EUR 19,90 and EUR 41, depending on the type. These prices, Minister, are forbidden in the midst of the economic crisis for most citizens. Today, when average income has shrinked by 40%, wages have hardly reached 30 euros. A citizen who has to cross the bridge and go back home must give 26,40 euros. So the bridge is forbidden. Take into account that the Region of Western Greece is the poorest region after Epirus, which is why the current toll prices of the bridge are an obstacle to its development. At the same time, the West Greek Region notes the highest unemployment rate. Recorded at 29.9%, i.e. 30%. That is why, Minister, the consequences of the crisis require a reduction in the cost of crossing the bridge both to facilitate the daily lives of the citizens and to the development of our region. If the Ministry fails to act immediately, the bridge will simply become another sightseeing without any added value for the local society, for the citizens of western Greece. After that, Minister, I would like to ask: Is the Ministry prepared to take action to reduce tolls on the bridge? If so, what is the timetable for their implementation? Secondly, is there a plan to renegotiate the terms of the concession with GEOFYRA S.A., since we are in its eleventh year of operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantopoulos, we have repeatedly said about the six objectives we have in connection with the negotiation of all the concessions currently in existence in the country, whether projects for the implementation of projects are under way or have been completed and we are in the second phase, in their operation. I repeat. The first is the creation of the first pan-Hellenic hybrid toll system on all highways in the country. The second is to reduce tolls. The third is the use of indicators of economic progress in relation to the toll price methodology, namely the use of other than this model we have today and the calculation of tolls, which do not take into account either the economic situation of the citizens or the country. The fourth is to have free passages to our specific categories of fellow citizens, such as the LEADER. The fifth is that citizens can cross free of charge on the geographical limits of a municipality, because we have municipalities with six or seven toll stations. The latter is the introduction of a specific number of free passages, depending on how the model will come out, so that permanent residents of certain regions can have free access to their work. From there on, we are preparing a special plan per concession in order to call on the concessionaires to negotiate. We have said that in this negotiation we will also call "GEOFERRA S.A." and "Attractive IO". I would ask you, however, to do your utmost to see the contract of concessions not only of GEOFYRAS S.A., but also of the "ATTITUTIONAL WORLD" and of all others. You will see that there are some indicators, such as the index of consumer prices or the inflation of the European Union or others, which are not consistent with times of crisis like today's calculation of tolls. How to tolls are calculated is not the responsibility of the state. It is a specific type and is calculated by the concessionaire. Therefore, negotiation or renegotiation of such contracts is not a very easy story. I think that if the concessionaires want to have a real sustainable situation both in projects and in Greek society, they will respond to the model that the Ministry will give to any concessions from those that are running, especially those that are in operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u22	Minister, thank you for the briefing. I know that you also informed the members of the Committee on Production and Trade 15 days ago. You have pointed out that there is an attempt to change contracts so that they can respond better nowadays. You have already announced reductions in toll prices, which you say can be achieved through the extension of concession time. We understand the difficulties that may arise in implementing. We know that there are specific commitments with GEOGRAPHY S.A... However, the country's economic reality has been overturned. There is no Greece of 2004. That is why it is imperative that reductions be made immediately. It is not possible for the bridge to be an obstacle to access the University Hospital of Patras. It cannot be an obstacle to SMEs, a financial burden on the daily lives of professionals, students and vulnerable social groups, as we have said. Everyone wants a reduction and there are decisions. Local government, trade unions, workers, students, TEI, public transport, all demand a reduction in transit costs. The reduction of the tolls of the bridge will alleviate the daily life of the citizens of the wider area of Mesology, Nafpaktos, Doridos, Eupoli, Agrinio, Thermos, Astakou, Mykas, Vonicas and Amphichia. It will contribute to the development, not only of them, but of the rest of the municipalities and regions, both of Western Greece and of Epirus. Ten years ago, Minister, we thought that the bridge would be a bridge between the prefectures and it would be a tool for the development and service of the citizen. However, this is a barrier with the honour it has today. While the studies have shown that there will be a benefit to the overall development of the wider regions, as there is demand for first and second residences from the Peloponnese, the tariff policy of the bridge prevents a benefit for Aetolokarennia. If the ticket falls, the bridge won't lose profits. Reducing transit costs will increase transit costs, so the bridge's revenues will increase. The institutional bodies of local society have drawn up proposals, which I shall be tabling. I am also tabling to you in the outlines that the reduced transit requested is by 40%, a euro 10 retrieval card, a identity card with special care for workers with reduced transit. Special care is also requested for the students of the TSYD of Nafpaktos, as well as the TEIs and TEIs of Patras, a reward fee for the tolls in bodies that take place events of tourist and cultural interest throughout the year. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, the local society is at a dead end, and you need to proceed directly to what you have planned, which will actually work. Because we believe you will have it. And while for the bridge there is assured clientele, there are no benefits for local society. This concession to the company ‘GEVYRA S.A.’ under these conditions is likely to have an appreciable impact on the public interest. Finally, along with the reduction of tolls, you also need to make a comprehensive renegotiation of the concession agreement. Please commit to your direct actions. We trust you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Minister, would you like to fill in something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I am tempted, because obviously the same situation applied three months ago to Greek society and a year and a half ago, when the four of the five ongoing concessions were revised. To use the bridge, so that it is not a bridge in the desert, one must use the Corinth - Patras National Road and for Antironius the Ionian Road up to the Yannina. So there, Mr Constantopoulos, your party had a different position. I must therefore welcome you - not personally, but the party you represent - to accept the demands of Greek society and the forces that support the current government, because they were called them a year and a half ago when these revisions were made. I would also like to give some clarification, Mr President: we are not talking about reducing tolls with an increase in concession time. We say that time should be a variable given. In other words, if the road load rises, the concession time will be reduced. When the load is maximized, therefore the revenues will be reduced. In times of crisis like today, we do not want to reproduce a phenomenon that is to increase tolls. It is not possible for citizens and society to cope with any kind of paradox - and it is not safe for them to use it. So we have a reduction in the revenue for motorways. How are they treating this? With a second toll increase. This is a chain that is disastrous for society, for development, for projects themselves, for all. And that's what we're going to overthrow. We simply do not go to a reasonable reduction in tolls and an increase in concession time. We go to a logic where two, three sizes of what are now considered to be constant, such as time and return on capital, to be variable. Because the IRR, i.e. the return on capital, has been set to be very high because of the country's economic situation. In a short time, as we hope, which will be the country's economic situation, it cannot be at the height of the revision of the conventions. So that's where it has to be reduced. So we have at least two data, two features, of contracts that must remain stable, so variable. And that is what we believe to be technically, and also in favour of society and especially of Western Greece which has been afflicted by the highway from Olympia, from the Ionian road and from the toll level. That is where we must pay particular attention. I'll see you at the next time question Mr. Javaras has submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos and Mr Minister. The first question will be discussed under number 1298/30-32015 by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the proclamation of the Communes of Dodoni and Zagori as a flooding path. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mrs. Jufi, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent months the region of Epirus has been affected, as is well known with the collapse of the historical bridge of Plaka - which, of course, has happened in the Prefecture of Artas, but the county of Ioannina has also been hit - by repeated and powerful rainfall which has caused enormous damage to the road network, public infrastructure and private property. The municipalities of Dodonis and Zagori were particularly affected, where the destruction is so great that it is impossible or extremely difficult to access many villages even in dwellings within the settlements. Specifically for the Municipality of Dodonis, there have been discounts and descents which have hit the road network, housing, livestock facilities and water network infrastructure. Finally, as far as the Municipality of Dodonis is concerned, the foundation of the traditional bridge at Helimodi in the settlement of Senikos has also been damaged. As regards the Municipality of Zagori, serious damage suffered the water network and the road network. In the same municipality damages were the foundations of the bridge at the second entrance of the settlement of Vobossa and many forest roads. Of this, it is clear that for decades in these regions, with the responsibility of the former governments and local self-government, serious infrastructure projects had not been made, so the constantly accumulated problems were almost insurmountable. A sloppy review of the decisions of the region's financial service and of the Ioannina Prefecture in previous years will show that many of these regions which have been affected this year have unfortunately been affected several times in the past. Rehabilitation works are done, but after a natural disaster, problems remain. For decades, the problems have been faced with a sloppy policy of 'to resolve the problem temporarily and then we see'. Through this policy, we see that the clientele of public works continues, so that malicious crafts and the lack of prospects for the development of these regions dominate. However, as can be seen, the restoration of losses in both municipalities goes beyond the economic potential of these two municipalities. Only in the Municipality of Zagori the pre-estimation of damage recovery costs touches one million euros. Given the economic failure of the municipalities and the lack of long-term political development and prospects of these regions on the part of the former governments and the Epirus Regional Authority and the Ioannina Prefecture, which was responsible for prior to the establishment of the region, you ask: First, do you intend to declare flooding of these two municipalities and what amount do you intend to grant them immediately to solve at least the pressing problems which make it difficult for the inhabitants of these regions? Secondly, do you intend to recommend to the Regional Authority of Epirus that a study be carried out to make road infrastructure projects that will solve the problem permanently in the regions concerned? Thirdly, do you intend to give relocation incentives to residents and farmers whose dwellings and building sites are located at places where landslides are chronic and irreversible? That is what I reserve for some supplementary questions in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jufi, from the questions you have asked, some are within the competence of the Ministry, others are within the competence of three or four other ministries. I say this because it must be understood by everyone that we have a truly disgraceful institutional framework in relation to dealing with disasters, so that citizens are troubled, that we have too much delays, that no one knows who will be addressing the Ministry to whom. We do not have an integrated system for water resources, particularly in regions that are sensitive. I should now like to answer for these municipalities. The Ministry is responsible for restoring damage to buildings after certain natural disasters. Inside these are landslides. Obviously, the case where the region, which is affected by a joint ministerial decision, is expected to be included in our ministry's rehabilitation programmes, is another case than the floods, there is another tariff and there are other compensation. In this case, the areas of the Municipality of Dodecanese, the Regional Unit of Ioannina, affected by the landslides of January and February 2015, have been included in a draft joint ministerial decision demarcating the affected areas from landslides and setting out measures to provide housing assistance to restore damage to the affected buildings. This CSR has been signed by the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, as well as by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, pending its signature by the Minister of Finance. That's where it's as a process. The Municipality of Zagori is not included in this decision since no damage has been recorded in buildings. Another type of damage has been recorded. I would also like to stress, for information by this House and also by the citizens, that because the disasters have been caused by landslides, in order to proceed with the compensation through the CFD, there is a need for geotechnical studies carried out by the regional authorities. You will also see the notes of the relevant services. Many times, because we also have other prefectures in which we have very great disasters and phenomena of landslide, decisions are not easy. Several times require metastases of entire settlements, no compensation for new buildings. Therefore, these studies need to be carried out and there is a need for dialogue and consensus in the regions concerned, in the municipalities concerned and with the authorities of local government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u30	First of all, thank you. I understand the great difficulty. There is a very serious question from the citizens of these regions who will actually be addressed and how they will find their point of view. You have explained the great difficulties that exist. And, of course, the issue of damage recovery is a matter of overall economic policy. That's understandable from everyone. However, I would also like you to allow me some additional questions, because, as you have rightly said, the responsibilities concern both the prefecture or the region and the local authority. I would therefore ask if you intend to proceed with some administrative control in the Region's Urban Agency for any responsibilities that may exist in building buildings - because I have said that in the past the same areas have again become landslides - and also in the competent departments responsible for drawing up studies, but also for the receipt of projects, since the results of the studies are either inadequate or the works have been found of miscarriages. I would also like to ask you, because of the financial difficulties that exist, whether you are thinking of energising the European Union's Solidarity Fund to tackle the major natural disasters, given that the two-month time limit for applying for the activation of this European mechanism is close. I also wanted to ask whether you intend to review the BALTATZIA programme to include road infrastructure projects in these areas. Finally, in cooperation with the regional authority of Epirus, do you intend to approve specific road infrastructure projects in these two regions in the new Epirus RDP 2014-2020? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u32	I would like to reply to the questions raised by the chosen Member. The whole situation really shows how dispersible the responsibilities are in the various ministries. Building control cannot be carried out by the relevant departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What we can do and for which we are prepared - you will also see the document from the competent authority - is this: we have anti-military emergency studies in the Prefectures of Epirus, Artas, Prevezis, Thesprotia and Ioannians, an estimated remuneration of EUR 3 000 000. Second action is to draw up a register of existing anti-military works, to assess departments for emergency anti-military projects and to plan for their implementation in the departments of Western Central Greece, Epirus, Attica, Eastern Central and Thessaly, amounting to 1,100,000 euros. As of the 2015 public investment, urgent studies and emergency support projects have been carried out to deal with exceptional flooding phenomena in various regions and municipalities in the country, an estimated remuneration of 10,000,000 euros. In particular, through the third action, we have a programming, in order to support such geotechnical studies, to support the regions, which are competent to do so in order to move forward with the next step, which will be the restoration of citizens. What really needs to be done requires the coordination of five ministries. As for what you have asked me about the "BALTATZIS" programme and so on, it is also the responsibility of another Ministry, because it is infrastructure projects that are mentioned either in primary production or in small projects that have to do with local government. So what we have anticipated is to help the region, in order to make these studies where there are landslides, so that we can go to the next step and revise this miserable institutional framework that we have at any time faced natural disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Thank you, too. Next is the third with number 202/24-2-2015 question of the Member of the Ilias of New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Javara to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the construction of the west part of Olympia Road. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am transferring to parliamentary control a justified complaint from the citizens of the western Peloponnese, namely Elijah and Messinia, of these societies which have now been unjustly burned in the past, is that they are systematically excluded from the governments of post-multiple what they are entitled to themselves from a motorway. At a time when all the prefectures of the Peloponnese - in its geographical sense - have a motorway, that is to say they have the basic infrastructure for development, this region, unfortunately, does not have it. I say this because I cannot understand - not only as a parliamentarian but also as a citizen of this country - how it is possible for that state of post-multiple to be so strong in the face of the weak and to become so weak in the face of the powerful. This refers to the fact that while this section of the motorway leading from Patras to Pyrgos, called "the completion of the Athens - Eleusina - Korinthos - Patras - Pyrgos - Tsakonas", was made at the request of the cartel of the national contractors. Separately, it was excluded from the concession projects with L.4219/2013. In the parliamentary procedures - and I must remind you that you were not in this House at that time - which led to the vote on this particular law, by which Parliament approved the amendment to the concessions of the country's road corridors, we have succeeded in getting a number of Members from the then government to join, with Article 5, the specific penalty, the obligation of the state to auction as a public project, once it had accepted - I repeat - the irrational and unethical requirement - and I do not know whether anyone could still say - the contractor's cartel to exclude this section. We have therefore succeeded in being auctioned as a public project. We have also succeeded in having the agreement of the European Commission, the Commission of the European Union, which has been given it by the funds and has called for EUR 475 million to be used. On 31 March this work would be published and expected nothing but the opening of the financial tenders to find out what the name of the contractor would be. Unfortunately, however, your Government, in a way that continues this tradition of granting privileges to specific castes of private contractors and economic institutions, has reached the point of being consistent with this trend, thereby excluding - in a specific act - a decision by the Minister of State, Mr Stathakis, the annulment of the operation of this tender - from the construction of the whole motorway, which reaches Tsakona, the part that we are concerned with and, of course, I exercise parliamentary control over this question. When this question was tabled, however, it had not been made in terms of government, in the way I have said, the will to cancel, because until then we have had various rumours. I never thought, therefore, that this government would come to deprive Elias and the Messinia Prefecture of this valuable good of infrastructure, of the transport that is necessary to develop an area that - I will mention it, because it also happens that the Vice-President who chairs this process comes from this place - from the depths of the centuries, from classical ancient times still, was named by Lysia, when he was speaking his Olympic word, as the best of Greece. I regret that I am obliged to look at the government on such a matter that, despite the promises that we have made today and from you personally, I believe that you have had the obligation to let it lead to its complete completion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, you have answered Mr Kutsuku's question last week. However, we are also waiting - I do not want to get misunderstood by being a locust, because I come from Elias, from the historical Elias - further specificities in what Mr Javarra has clearly and unequivocally explained. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously, the Vice-President may answer you because he followed the answer 15 days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u37	This does not relieve you of the obligation to reply to me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u38	No, I will even ask you another question for me on this matter, because every ten days we find new evidence. In other words, ten days before Mr Koutsuku's question, we had made the meeting at the Ministry, where you and all the MPs and the city's leaders were. We are therefore pleased to see you every ten days - Mr Vice-President, because you are from this region - finding other elements that confirm our policy. So we will repeat the previous ones so that there is no gap in information and we will also say the new ones. As to history, the Patras - Tower road and then Tsakona - Good Water was in the concession of the Olympia Road. With the revision of the contracts a year and a half ago, the natural object was reduced. The natural object that was reduced is the whole motorway after Patras. So for reasons that you have explained better to be a disgrace, it was stated that this work will be done separately. But let us see how this work would have been done separately, as you have said, with the previous government's commitments, which were largely respected. First, then, date was 27-1-2015. Uploaded for 13-2-2015. And it was postponed, I imagine, again abusively - as you blame the current government - and criminally for the project and a new date was set on 31-3-2015. We, Mr Javara, committed ourselves to the Greek people for some of the election announcements. We said that for all the competitions, we'll rediscover the terms, the usefulness, everything. For this project, obviously, usefulness does not want to talk and we share it. However, we will see all the terms of the competition and not just the specific one, but also all the others. In order not to misinform the Greek people, as to what you're asking us, there were some gray zones. First, could the competition be implemented on 31-3-2015? The answer is no. The destructive law that you passed on August 8, 2014, n. 4281/2014, provided for the existence of an electronic system to make the tenders, provided for the adoption of ministerial decisions and presidential decrees to be implemented. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You will allow me, Mr President. I need plenty of time. It was also foreseen that this law would be revised after a year and a half, i.e. we would have a card in tendering and in the public works system.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u39	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u40	Did you say anything, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u41	When the work is done, give him time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u42	It's going to be the play. And we give him time and work will be done, Mr. Kegeroglu! Please, Minister, continue with unlimited tolerance. The same goes for you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u43	We believe that this is another area where the government had to deal with a set scene from the previous government, which did not allow the country's first months of governance to tender for neither a project, a study or a procurement contract, in addition to the other aims of the negotiation. And you come and ask us why? Two, for the contest. Let's see how the previous competition came out, and if you want, I'll redo the paperwork. They're also tabled to the previous question I've answered. Article 18 entitled ‘Studies’ indicates that existing technical studies have a different status of approval. As you know very well, the studies were performed by the concessionary. It says, therefore, in brackets: "(approved studies, approved with comments from the independent engineer or under approved studies)". This is a very serious competition. In other words, we have three categories of studies, those that have been approved, another piece that is subject to approval with comments from the independent engineer and some that are generally approved. It's never happened before! I'll put it back in the Minutes, so Mr. Javarras doesn't look for it in Mr. Koutsuku's answer. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] So would the competition be implemented? If we had an electronic system, had you drawn up presidential decrees - which you hadn't made - and went with these studies, could the competition be implemented again? If we had done all of this - that is, if you had done it - because we obviously couldn't make an electronic system in fifteen days - and if, Mr President, the tender would have opened in late October with the beginning of November 2015. Because the decision, referred to by Mr Javarras, and according to which there was a commitment from the previous government to a public project - not from the EDP, obviously, even though it has such a number - says, "we approve of accession to the programme..." - etc. '... and is approved provided that the competitive process (opening of economic tenders) is not completed before the final adoption of the 'Great project file in the European Union'. I would also like to present these two decisions, one of the Ministry of Infrastructure and one of the relevant department of the Ministry of Development, so that Mr Javarras has them, in order to understand how seriously the previous government had committed itself to the project. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decisions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In order to approve this dossier, that is to say, to join the new EPA, a committee should be set up for the new EPA, all the necessary procedures for which projects are included, which projects do not fall within, which will be approved and not what the Government or Secretary-General of the Ministry suggests. So if we did the competition on 31 March and the previous governments had done all the previous ones, the financial offers would open up at the end of the year. Then they'll open up now. I would like to refer to the new elements, so that Mr Javarras and the citizens of the region can also enrich their archives. Information on RCF and National RCF resources for motorways: On the basis of the strategic framework for transport investment - pages 81 to 83 - and by decision of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance - under Protocol No 2031/28-11-2014 - the following five road projects I will read to you have a budget of 1 705 000. What are these: Construction of the Patras - Tower motorway, 475 million. Construction of Good Water - Chacona motorway, 150 million. Completion of the construction of the coast road linking with the western axis of the North-South phase II, 130 million. Construction of the Chalkida road bypass, 180 million. Construction of the section of Lamia - Xeniad of the motorway of Central Greece, 770 million. Within the framework of the 2014-2020 EPA, these five major projects are part of the priority axis 3, on pages 92 to 106 of the Operational Transport Infrastructure Programme, etc. The overall financing of the Cohesion Fund is 430 million. So we miss them, in relation to the previous government's commitments, 1,175,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u44	A topical question is raised by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u45	I say this to see how committed the projects he had told the Greek people were the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u46	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u47	Therefore, Mr President, even if all the funds of the National ETUC are made available, in relation to the Ministry in road projects by 2018, we are again missing 727 million, compared to what the previous government had committed. The previous government's commitments were perfect! We commit ourselves, as you will see from the service documents, that the work will be done and that the work will not come out as Mr Javarras said. Mr Javarra, you have denounced the great-workers, but you have not denounced that a work was going to be done, a auction and that this work, like the others that have been cut, was directed at the six major companies and that the physical object of concessions has been reduced. So what public work? Public work, which is now directed at six - seven large companies? So the citizens, the inhabitants of Elijah, Kalamata, the contractors, the suppliers there don't want to work? They don't want projects in the area to go to lower-class companies? So what we are committed to, Mr President - and it has been tabled - is that, in June, the services responsible, depending on the natural object of the motorway, will have prepared those tenders so that, at the end of June, early July, the tenders will be made, in part, for all the work and not for a project which, as Mr Javaras said, will again be addressed to the cartel of the major contractors. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Javarra, you have a corresponding time to support your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u49	Minister, I would like to agree with you, and I fully agree with you about the necessity and great usefulness of this work. I find it difficult, however, to follow you, because I have to make it quite clear that as a Member I am committed to my institutional role, which is why I do not belong to artificial controversy between what you said 'we and you'. So I am in control of the present government and if I have had the opportunity from this moment on, from this year on, I would have checked the previous one. Because I have no hesitation to say that he has wrongly accepted the exclusion of this part of the projects from the concessions, giving - if you like - privileges to these 'national contractors'. But here, even though I want to believe you, your works create a suspicion for me. First and foremost, the haste with which the "budget" has been made, as you say, of the project in question and that the legal procedure has not been chosen, impairs me to a great deal of concern about the way in which your Ministry is dealing with such serious situations. Your Ministry invokes the provision in paragraph 4 of Article 27 of the Public Works Act, which in fact gives the right to withdraw and not to cancel - there is a great difference in these two words - the proclamation of a tendered project, since by reason of its decision, among other cases, it is willing to re-publish it, by amending only the terms of the declaration. But this one, which you call on, I do not see in Mr Stathakis' decision. Because Mr Stathakis' decision refers to the annulment of the opening of the tender rather than the withdrawal of the declaration in order to amend the conditions laid down in that declaration and to re-publish the work. On the other hand, by reading its recital, I find no reason why it is the essential and legal basis of what the operative part says. Because in this particular case, there is no mention of what you have said. The only thing that is said is that, yes, if he wants to rethink the tendering method and not to re-publish and, secondly, he will do so in conjunction with the integration of this project into the ETUC. This means that you leave too much room for suspicion that this project will go away, it will be exempted from the 2014-2020 EPA, that is, from the new ESDP, and, of course, it will never find the specific resources, which are of the order of EUR 445 million. I would therefore urge you to implement this assurance. It cannot, of course, be a commitment, you know that much better than I do. You right now have the knife, you have the melon, but you know one thing. In this place Greece will never be able to enjoy the exit from the crisis, economic, social, institutional, if it does not give anyone, the last citizen of that country, the commitment and the assurance that it will keep away from stateism and populism and if, of course, it does not implement a principle. To stop the state finally being a mechanism to serve individual or some interests, branches or trade unions and to make the permanent organisation in a legal person of a people, who nothing else asks its Government to create a daily belief that there is a rule of law, which does not unequally share the resources and opportunities for development in the various regions of that country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u51	A lot, Mr President. I fully agree, Mr Javarra. We should not really give this message to the citizen. We must keep the citizen and Parliament and all of us away from populism and from inequality. And I say this because only when the Ministry that I serve with the competent bodies has contracts of 18.5 billion to the large technical companies, that is what you understand in itself creates unequal conditions for disequal distribution and injustice to the Greek people. I should like to inform you that millions of unemployed from the technical sector exist in the country and in the region of Western Greece - I imagine you will meet them every day - and thousands of engineers, over 65%, cannot really cover their insurance contributions. So it is not just regional distribution, it is the other distribution, the one that has brought millions of unemployed into our country, while at the same time a few are more rich than before. This is what an injustice it creates in the Greek people. Secondly, you have entered a logic - I am an engineer, I am not a lawyer - whether we have revoked or have cancelled this particular competition. If, then, we kept up with what does not cause you insecurity, if we were to go and then we were to renegotiate the terms, examine them and rejoin them, we would again address six companies. I do not know if this raises a question in relation to the competitions that were expected to take place in reducing the physical object. In other words, you cannot blame the cartels of the major contractors on the one hand and on the other hand blame us for cancelling a competition which was again addressed to the same contractors and not to smaller companies. And believe me, this is neither sectoral nor syndicate, it is how the wealth of the country is shared and to whom it shares. Does he have to share in many or a few? The previous governments have chosen very few, however, no fewer. And, of course, these are not specific castes, Greek citizens are, the whole of the Greek people. Now, we really won't follow populism or the promise. We when we have something to say, we say it and we commit ourselves. And we commit that this project will be done, it will have the funding it should obviously have from the ETUC. And for the previous auction, from what I read and submitted to the minutes, the EPA will give it. Where's the money coming from, like, 454 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u52	You make the play.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u53	Again - although I have given the figures - there is a billion missing and something about the projects that the previous government has said and had promised the Greek people and regions of the country. Well, for this project, what we're saying is it's going to be done. Within June or early July at the latest there will be partial invitations to tender, as we said 15 days ago in the corresponding question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Minister. The cancelled work will be reopened, Mr Javarra, said the Minister in June or July.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u56	We're done. Thank you, Mr Javarra and Mr Minister. We enter the third under number 165/28-4-2015 top-level question by MP II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, about the "provocative actions of fanatical Muslims within the Greek territory". The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will answer Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos. Here, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a few days ago there was the greatest celebration of Greek Christians, Christians in general, the Divine Resurrection. During the Great Week there was an incident in a Greek village. In the village of Echinos in Thrace, we were surrounded by the Epitaphi and had organized the fourth Army of Xanthi. From where and until a Muslim journalist goes out and says that this was a scandal, he goes out and blames the government, the SYRIZA MPs from the region, the Regional, the Municipal Council that this thing was a scandal and a resiliki? How have we reached this point? Was it scandalous and resiliquitous that there was an Eptafios' roam in the area, in a Greek village, in the Greek soils? Where have these people arrived, and where has the Greek Government come and tolerated all this? But that man didn't get the courage so suddenly a nice morning. Obviously the situation in Thrace - and we all know it in here, or even some people who don't know it - has reached the unprecedented. Thrace is now, unfortunately, being run by the Turkish consulate. We want to know as Golden Dawn what measures the government will take on this matter. And tell us officially, so that we also know the golden people and the Greek citizens in general, what the role of the Turkish consulate is. What exactly is it that he does in our Thrace, except for challenging situations, except for creating national risks in our country? There are many issues that we need to develop. Let us stress here that there is a specific Turkish bank in Thrace, Ziraat, which provides dedicated loans, mainly to Muslims, at a rate of 3%, when the other Greek banks give at 13% and 14%. These people buy all the Greek property there. And especially in this time of crisis that the Greeks now live, unfortunately, only sell and Muslims only buy. These things we need to discuss and we need to find a way as a Greek government to stop them and see how they are here, which are currently a snake in the node of Greece, will stop these provocative statements. I cannot - and I repeat again - say this journalist is a challenge and a resilience to this thing, when in the center of Piraeus or Athens we see dozens of illegal mosques being smuggled by Muslims and not talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. The Minister has the floor, Mr Nikolaos Paradopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. MEP, following my correspondence with the Prosecutor of Xanthi and on the basis of a document sent to me by the Ministry of Citizen Protection, Mr. Yiannis Panousis, I was aware that the Prosecutor's office was not directly or automatically initiated, because the journalist's text had been published in the online press and not in a press release, which is immediately known, but at the time of the correspondence, I was told by the Prosecutor of Xanthi that a preliminary examination of this particular event had been initiated. The document by the Minister for Civil Protection has given me no responses from the minority to the vicinity of the Epitaph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Rabbit has the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u61	We thank the Minister very much for what he has told us. It's the legal feeling that's become. It's very right, and that's how it should be. We accept that there is a slight delay if it is not something of the evil, and if there is just a bureaucratic process. But I will repeat, Minister, that we want you to respond to us, and if not at some point in the near future, we want to see what the role of the Turkish consulate is. We insist as Golden Dawn that his role is very mysterious. For us, of course, he's not a mystery, he's specific. It represents Turkish interests and the work it does is specific. We need to find a way. We did not say that there is still a problem with Muslims living up there, but certain people certainly want to guide them. Here too, I would like to refer to two - three specific examples of what is happening there. Because we know very well and know that 500 euros a month is the amount that provides a full Turkish businessman - there is his name, Omar Dad is specifically - for every child who leaves the Greek school to study at a private Muslim hierarchy in order to make Islam a better learning. Also, around 1,000 euros, 850 actually, gives for every minor girl, who will wear the traditional Turkish handkerchief. So here we see that there are tens of millions of euros granted by the Turkish state itself, through the Turkish consulate, to serve projects and 'games'. We also learn from a municipal councillor who is elected in the region - his name exists at your disposal whenever you want - that the amount that the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives exceeds EUR 20 million. What is Greece doing on this part? What are we doing? In a few years we will have a huge problem in Thrace and the reasoning you know what it is? It's going to be Kosovo and Thrace. It is to claim that the Turks separate this part of our Greek land with no reaction, only with signatures. This is going on gradually. We see a Thrace, which we have diligently left as Greece, as a Greek state. It's embarrassing what's happened. In many pomakohoria do not even have the opportunity to watch Greek television, they do not see the Greek trademark unfortunately. The Turkish consulate once again has intervened here and has put satellite dishes in order to watch and watch Turkish programs and, unfortunately, on our own, we have made a category of Greek citizens, the Pomaks, to take them to the hands and arms of Turkey. Why is that so? How will this thing stop? We definitely have to do something. And it is absolutely no coincidence that the son Erdogan showed up the particular village of Ehinos yesterday and made statements that "we are next to you" - and well, to the Muslim minority, so said the son Erdogan - "and when" - did not say - "when there is a problem, we will be here, next to you, to solve it." I insist once again that the problem is important. We have been stressing it as Golden Dawn for too many years. We want an answer, Minister, on these issues, and in particular we would like you to give us an answer on the role of the Turkish consulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. Minister, would you like to add something, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, very little, because these issues do not fall within the written question that has been raised or fall within the scope of justice. Justice is committed to legality, judges are independent of any influence on the part of the rest of the powers, so I have nothing to add. These concern other fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Rabbi and Mr. Minister. With the expected consent of the present Minister, Mr Voutsi and Mr Mavragani, I shall put the question to Mrs Valavani, because the Minister will take two questions. Therefore, we will now discuss the sixth question by number 145/27-4-2015, first question by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, Minister for Finance, on the directive on non-taxation of farmers' allowances and subsidies. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valvani, will respond. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I will say that one question indeed concerns precisely the issue that has arisen of taxation or non-subsidisation, compensation and other aid from the European Union. And how's it come about? While it is not provided for by any law, by any provision and has so far not been acted, either in Greece or elsewhere in the European Union, such taxation, on the part of the tax authorities, raised the question 'After it is not forbidden to state it'. Thus, in fact, a question arises to the Ministry of Finance in order to clarify and exclude - because it is not foreseen anywhere - any possible tax on subsidies. What we are asking the Minister is how he will clarify this, if he needs a circular, a POL, as it is called for in the Ministry of Finance, or if he is likely to need another act. The second point we are asking is whether it intends to accept the proposal that I have personally tabled and which had worked out the staff of the Ministry of Finance - the agency or any other, I do not know - on the previous government, that is to say, to adopt, for the first year of application of the system of revenue - expenditure to farmers allegedly expenditure at least 20% on revenue as expenditure without documents. And that's why we're asking? Because the farmers were not informed of the procedures to be followed in order to collect the necessary documents and have been provided with the data in the code so that they would not be overtaxed. So that we do not have such a chance, then, we ask the Ministry to consider and adopt this 20% proposal, which will give a solution for one year to the problem. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Olga - Nadia Valvaani, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u67	In relation to your first question, Mr Colleague, as I have already answered to Mr Diamantos Manolakou's MEP last Monday, in a relevant timely question, we arrived in cooperation with the Deputy Minister for Rural Development not to wait for a radical restructuring of the method of taxation for farmers in the new tax bill to be discussed in the autumn and to cover farmers' incomes in the financial year 2015, but to intervene now with legislation on how to tax agricultural compensation and subsidies for tax declarations in the financial year 2014. This amendment is ready and we hope that it can be debated and voted on by the end of this week. This amendment introduces the duty-free allowances without a plaque. Something different would be a disgrace if you think that this is a capital disaster, much more so starting with a 30% reduction in any compensation for this disaster and, of course, a lot more shame than that would be, without this regulation, the whole situation that exists, which would objectively lead to an exceptional overtaxation of farmers this year compared with 2013 - I mean the financial year 2014 as compared to 2013 - since, as we know, it provides for taxation from the first euro. As far as subsidies are concerned, I would like to say that the first EUR 12 000 will be taxed to all farmers. This covers - as far as we have searched - over 90% of the beneficiaries of subsidies. In other words, the subsidies will, in practical terms, be tax-free for all small and medium-sized farms. We expect that, regardless of how the n was drawn up. 4172/2013, the whole of the Opposition will support this regulation and of course you will personally. In relation to the second question, I do not know what the previous government was preparing or not preparing, but that is less than 20% of farmers' incomes as tax-free, it has not appeared anywhere. It may have been a personal initiative of your own. On the other hand, because the previous government with the n. 4172 saw all farmers businessmen, 13% of the first euro appeared, the trade fee, 27.5% advance, and of course what is out of every sense, most of all, which is the taxation of allowances and subsidies from the first euro. And you know, Mr Kegeroglu, that in the way n is formulated. As regards the second part of Amendment No 4172/13, they do not need to be explicitly mentioned. Where it is not stated that it is deductible, it shall be considered to be taxed. You know, too, with this I would like to end, that two tax bills and two budgets are not being implemented in the same year. The EUR 12 000 tax was our pre-election commitment for the year 2015 in which we would be a government. If we applied it now, that is, for the incomes of 2014, we would have to resort to this, because, as you know, duty-free is one of the main elements that the revenues constitute as they form on the basis of the current budget. We did what we could for the incomes of last year as a whole and not just for farmers. We faced three plus five extreme situations. The three were regulated within the law for the hundred instalments, the five - one of which is the duty free of compensation and subsidies for farmers - will be submitted and I hope, as I said before, that they will also be voted on by the opposition by the end of this week.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Minister Valavani. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Your answer, Minister, is twofold, ambiguous and contradictory. It is good on the compensation side and on which you said you will intervene on incomes and on compensation for 2014 and will legislate next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u70	This week.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u71	Or this week, yes, because tax declarations will begin, so as soon as possible. For subsidies, I would like to point out that the European Union does not provide for their taxation, it was not provided for by the law, which you mentioned, the speculation of the tax-payer that they must state it has no legal effect, nor must any speculation, so there must be clearly the duty-free - since you are moving to legislative intervention - regardless of the deaf and the flat. Subsidies cannot be taxed by the European Union and aid. The fact that you put a limit, which, in your view, is a matter of justice, will raise a question of removing this legislation, which means that the issue of the non-taxation of aid will be raised again. It should therefore be applied, without a cap, as far as compensation, aid and subsidies are concerned. For the second part, you said that after it has been legislated by the previous government, we cannot intervene and we will see what we will do about the incomes of 2015. No, of course not. Since you are intervening on the issue of allowances and subsidies and will you bring legislation for 2014, where and how far can you not regulate the issue, which you have rightly pointed out will lead to overtaxation of farmers? You have rightly pointed it out, and that is what it is. Because we, too, as a state and as a government before and you, will not have enabled these people to declare their actual expenses and it is difficult, it is not easy in procedural terms. Otherwise, the solution would have been given. It's hard indeed. I invite you to consider the 20% proposal, it will be salvages. If you had introduced 12,000 tax-free, it would not be a matter for you. If we had gone to the payroll tax scheme, which applies to 9,500 tax, there would still be no problem. But because, as I said, professionals from the first euro, this 20% must be introduced. They cannot get out of farmers because this is what you said 'as you know, it depends on the entire budget, on the tax rate of EUR 12 000, etc., which we will take next year'. Not from the farmers. There's nothing to reduce, there's something we're going to increase. So it will be unfair to these people at the same time as we have seen today with a front page of the newspaper "MAKEDONIA" in which the government has not responded...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u72	"THESALONIC" is the newspaper.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u73	"THESALONIKI", I'm sorry. You, as a Macedonian, know it well. This paper says that in March, the Deputy Minister - and it does not of course concern you - is the staff who are negotiating - it is said in journalistic housing that he is with a 'n' not 'n' - he made 80,000 euros without a specific purpose and a necessary provision for the purpose he is coming out. He hasn't answered yet. In other words, we also see contradictory elements in your own government which have to do with 'we cannot touch the part concerning taxation, because, as it is to be done', on the other hand, 'we must follow the bounty, which we have all denounced together as soon as we have learned it about the Minister of Finance of the previous government, and we must make it through negotiation'. I say this because it needs to be directly disproved, because if the Minister involved in the negotiations has indeed come out, according to this publication - if it is true - he is giving a wrong signal to everyone else. It is the same message as the one who said that "I will make all my money out so I won't be in danger". This wrong message should have been prevented by the government from the first minutes of the paper, which I will be tabling in the Minutes of the House, and which I will be waiting for an answer immediately. I do not know whether you or the Minister himself can give it to me with a'm' or any other government such as Mr Sakellaridis. However, this must be answered so that, if applicable, the person who published it may be denounced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Madam Minister, if you want to add something, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u75	Mr Kegeroglu, because those of us who are dealing with tax in the Ministry of Finance are a little bit underground in the Ministry of Finance, I must tell you that I have not taken into account the relevant publication at all, and I fully agree that there is a need for an immediate answer and I cannot imagine that it actually responds. I think the people who have to look at it will look at it and I suppose there will be this answer that you say has not been. I did not say that the budget would collapse if the farmers were to be taxed. I said another thing: that what we can do for 2014 is touch - and I referred to three plus five equals eight - extreme. "Extreme" means not only the most unjust and the more excessive. It also means extremism, that is, they are not the core. The issue of tax exemption for all categories, which does not exist in a direct or indirect form, such as all the categories of free professions of small enterprises, individual enterprises and, of course, the farmers who are the most unfair business, is the core of this tax. I have to say to you that the first issue that the journalists raised to me is: 'Will you abolish for 2014 for all these categories the total unfairness - and I fully agree with it - tax without tax on duty from the first euro?'. I have given this answer from the outset: that in order to do this, we really need to draw up a second, first bill, two tax bills in the same year. As you know, Paul 1041/2015 of the General Secretariat of Public Incomes, which I assume you are referring to, specialises in Articles 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 of Law 4172/2013 to determine income from agricultural activities. This has happened, precisely because for farmers, whether or not they are exempted from keeping CVO books, i.e. whether or not they have a farm income of more than EUR 10 000, which is the limit on whether or not they need to keep books, the so-called production costs, which are proven by mere incidents, such as seeds or pups, fertilizers and medicines, cultivation and irrigation costs, costs for wages and fuel and maintenance costs of agricultural machinery, interest and expenditure on loans related to agriculture, depreciation of fixed equipment, etc. These discounts are those for the financial year 2014. We cannot, for the previous year, which was not our government, do anything more than introduce the duty-free allowances and the duty-free allowances of up to EUR 12 000. We discussed this issue. In fact, it introduces this - and indeed taxation from the first euro - in the way it avoids being mentioned and, on the contrary, in the fact that the only deductible is the so-called production costs, which I have told you and which are mentioned. Nothing else goes off. Since nothing else goes wrong, it is clear that compensation and subsidies are normally taxed. The introduction of this tax rate of EUR 12 000 on agricultural subsidies, in fact in an indirect way, creates a small tax that everyone gets in line with the subsidies they receive. For a more equitable regulation we must, unfortunately, wait for the new tax draft for 2015 incomes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu and Mrs Valavani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, you must say, however, that the Hercules were short in time, while the Elians did an hour and a half and they did not come to a conclusion!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u78	You've heard, Mr. Kegeroglu. We enter into the development of the fifth under number 147/27-4-2015 a top-level question by Evia MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Economy, Infrastructure, Maritime and Tourism, on the disfellowshipping of the beach road of Efipsos from landslide and the destruction of the Provincial Network of Edipsos - Lake. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately I have the misfortune to be in a county which is the most neglected road network. You may have heard of it for many prefectures, but if you have been through Evia and you have made an attempt to run it from north to south, you will have found that my word has absolutely no exaggeration. In fact, when Evia is the nearest tourist field next to Athens, it acquires other dimensions. It is a fact that it is the only island that has no perimeter path, but it is also a fact that the network that it has is miserable and too dangerous. This particular piece, which we are talking about, is a piece in which the mountain slope has been causing a number of many years to cause problems. We're constantly falling rocks. It is the main road linking central Evia, Chalkida, with northern Evia through Lake to Eidas and Istia. They are dropping rocks at least once or twice a year, interrupting transportation, creating a huge problem and a risk of human life, because you understand that these rocks are huge in size. No one has so far acquired that minimum sensitivity that would be needed to help both the civil servants of the central stage and the civilian personnel of the regional scene, but also to move towards the armouring of these rocks so that there is no risk of life and that the central is not cut off from Northern Evia. I repeat, Minister, that this is happening almost every year, not once, but more. This year, it took place on 11 March 2015. I went on the spot twice. I photographed - maybe your ministry and similar photographs, I'll testify to them too - the point where the rocks appear to be huge in size and that they are practically boulders. We're talking about a provincial network or a second-class network. In accordance with Article 5(2) of the Law. 3155/1955 this is the responsibility of the Regional Administration of Central Greece, so that it can do the relevant work towards maintenance as well as for armouring. Please, Minister, I would like - and this is what my question says - to tell me what your Ministry intends to do in the direction of control of the Region of Central Greece - in relation to the projects and initiatives that it must take, so that this does not happen again because - I repeat - there is a risk of human life.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reform has the floor, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u81	With your questions, Mr Colleague, you raise a number of issues which are very serious. I'm afraid there's always in these questions, if there's a constant problem. It is obvious that when this work was studied and when the appropriate territorial studies were not carried out for at least some of its parts. The most problematic part is four to five kilometres, in which what you say is actually happening. The region itself as an answer and as a first estimate said that the right thing would be - but this is a deduction in relation to the country's current capacity - to provide a allocation of 25 million to make a new road from the outset rather than wires, nets and emblematic type support, and indeed to make a safe passage. I think it's a Reverend Lake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u82	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u83	Of course, that is too much of a potential. The entire allocation for the region is 3.5 million - if I am not mistaken - for a network of eighty-two-kilometre roads. My colleague is here, too. And not to say the word'suck' - but to get to grips with - it is sad. I happen to take the route you're talking about. This is a high-risk road in all respects. Of course, this is a very small infrastructure to be used for development purposes. Of these 3.5 million have therefore made an effort for 2.5 million, after a partitioning for projects of absolute topicality - one would say - in four and a half kilometres of the road. In other words, an attempt is being made to make a partition of 2.5 million, which will not be ready before the end of the year. So we're actually going to autumn, winter of the year. That's the truth. They've been bent on services, they've seen money. There are also responsibilities to those who have received such projects, because as an engineer I say to you that much more care is needed when we go through mountain tumors or concrete rocks and pebbles, as they are where they are evidently diffusion problems from a level. It had to be a much more serious task from the outset. At the moment, with great risk, the residents and the excursions and all those who are going there are going through these points. You are absolutely right to point it out every week or every fortnight and take the road to Evia. It is the economic reality of the region. But I think they're doing or going to make every effort. We are now considering whether the economic situation allows and should allow the economic situation through a fundamental increase in the Public Investment Programme - this is what we have been talking about in the morning with my colleague Minister - so that there can be further intervention central, because that is why you are asking for this, otherwise the region will have 3.5 million and will give the 2.5 million there, I imagine you were aware of it. We have the reports here. The question is whether we are in fact able to say that we are centrally giving another 2.5 million, another 3 million, another 5 million, so that the substance can be restored, I repeat, and not with the tumors, which are falling or supporting me of very doubtful technical importance. So these are recorded with their importance and prioritisation in the priorities so that we can actually cure such situations at the moment - and that is why we are working - that we will have this possibility centrally. It would be wrong to tell you now that "Yes, we will give so much more to...". This is what you understand that will be studied, we will see, going on a road if we can, because it is absolutely essential to contribute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u85	I have covered myself, Mr President, and thank you very much to the Minister. He's always accurate to what he says. All I would like to say and point out and take the opportunity that is here and the Minister of Development - is that Evia is indeed neglected in this part. It is dangerous both to the south and to the north and, of course, it is dead to the Greek state, in general, I say it, which, in previous years, and the economic potential, did not get involved. And, of course, we now have a much greater need than resources to do that. As far as possible, however, it is a priority. It's really a disgrace. Whoever walks Evia really feels it. It is shameful, for a civilised state, a region near Athens, but also far away from being, Kymi, who wants to believe that the state has taken care of it and has built it as one of the prominent commercial ports, but without any road, and aspires to have the rest of the ports as ports of entry into the country, without roads, but, in order to approach these ports, to continue to walk. I therefore ask you to take care of Evia, because its network is, frankly, fifty years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u87	Yes, Mr. President. I think that we have come to an agreement, put it in a few priorities and study them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u88	Next is the third with number 148/27-4-2015.Previous second question by MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks, Athanasios Papachristopoulos, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the management of waste at the Tower of Ilia. In the timely question, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsis will answer. Mr Papachristopoulos, develop the question about this very important and difficult issue. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that the fines imposed by the European Union, unfortunately, are not paid either by the district governor or the mayor who has neglected his basic obligations, but we are all paying them in here. I would also like to invoke today - today, not yesterday, nor yesterday - a post, Mr Minister, a newspaper of the Tower with the greatest traffic, and I would like to remind you of a few figures and say: we know that when employees strike waste collection, garbage, not for months, but for three - four days, there is a great mess here in Athens. We've all dealt with it and we all fall upstairs to stop this story, because it can't go on. I still want to tell you that I have experienced a personal experience in Haiti, because I am a doctor, where when the earthquakes occurred, we predicted with mathematical accuracy that if anyone doesn't interfere with these people, the infections that will follow will be terrible. A year later, after Port earthquake - Prens, five hundred thousand cholera incidents appeared and no man was approaching then to help the Haitians, who had been abandoned in their destiny in the streets and pets confusing in there, etc. It was a great picture. We went to Haiti twice. Is this an example relevant? Oh, no. I don't want to be overreacting. However, garbage in the Tower and in the forty - seven communities is not a story five to ten days, not even a month. It's a history of eight months in explosive form and over a year and a half in relaxation. Whether the mayor or the district mayor is doing the job well, we'll see. I believe that this is a fundamental obligation at the outset of the mayor, and if not the mayor, the district manager, the waste collection. We do not have an elementary response to this, and we do not see a solution. There isn't any. I know. But solutions could be found. Are they interests? We hear that behind the garbage there are great interests. Is it a mayor's competition? I can't get into that logic. You're their natural leader. At the moment, not me, who is not a Member of the Ilias Parliament, but their medical club, which I do not believe is a one-party, screams out of agony with parallel articles and hears no one. And some people whistle indifferently there at the Tower, like nothing happens. We had a corresponding problem in Tripoli, Minister. It has not been resolved and has been temporarily treated. I'm afraid because summer comes and you know very well that temperatures are the worst counselor for this story, while cold somewhere does the problem, and I really want to ask this: You intend - yesterday! - call the district commander and the mayor - yesterday! - to see what they're gonna do? It's a health hazard. I don't like overreacting. For the time being some gastroenteritis have been noted and, fortunately, not in an epidemic form. I have to admit. Let's see what we're gonna do! I have spoken with five mayors who have no HYTAs and have indicated how the matter can be resolved yesterday. I sincerely say to you - and I feel it, in other words, within me - that it is a matter that the state should have already intervened. I know it's none of your business to collect garbage. You are, however, their natural leader and you can put them 'hot hand'. I am not in favour of repression or of punishing them. It's a matter of public health, very serious. Honestly, I would ask you - and there is no opposition to the current question - that is a matter that is going on today - to invite them to your office, to catch them from your ears. They certainly don't do their job well, because it hasn't been a single month or two, but it's been eight. I would like to ask you this - and I would like to highlight this - to resolve it as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. It's a very serious problem, Minister. I've mentioned it to you, too. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u91	One of the few themes, which we have been trying in depth to deal with, is precisely the waste in the Tower. There have been two very large meetings with all those who have said and all the mayors and the elected district and the decentralised administration and the adjoining districts. Two long meetings have taken place within the past two months - the last one was three weeks ago - and other smaller ones. We sent the Secretary-General of Waste Management to Elias on the spot to find solutions. You must know that our responsibility lies with the national waste planning, which indeed these days with the synergy of the two ministries and with Mr Tsironi, we are forming a new framework in contact with the European Union as well to present to the CEDEFOP conference after a few days. Regional planning gives the direction for management. From there on the municipalities have all the responsibility for everything else, that is, from collection to composting, recycling, transhipment, processing, finding spaces for HSD - because we get terrible fines - etc. There are municipalities, who have done a really excellent job and are able to help even neighbouring municipalities within the same county or across the border. These municipalities have used all the modern methods they have told you when you raised the last question. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] There are other municipalities, which are stuck in an older design, which foresaw 'fraonic' factories, which wanted to feed on tons of garbage, that is to say, to be produced in the bimenis tons of garbage, to go to these factories. These factories at the same time were also working as a model of processing and core for creating interoperable relationships - to tell you clearly and to agree. From this model we leave as a country. We should have left for years, but we're leaving now. I repeat that this is also the case with the full consensus and matching of the European Union's programming on these issues. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] When we took over the country's rule, after the elections on 25 January, Mr. Colleague, we made enough money from what we do not have, to implement a decision signed by the previous representatives of the decentralised administrations and, of course, we forbid the easy solution to go to the Race to the trash of the Peloponnese and to Nafpatto the garbage of Elias. I'm saying it in particular, so that they can be recorded in the Minutes. I have therefore signed a decision for 11 million - what you hear! Of these, 600,000 euros were given to the Municipality of Pyrgos. Others in Tripoli, while we did not give a single euro where they had done an excellent job, they had taken up modern machines for intermediate management, for parcelers, etc. However, we have given what the previous speakers have signed to deal with the problems you are saying. This money has told us that they still exist, because we have said that there will be financial control, not least because they have not been used for the solutions we have proposed. We found solutions, at least for three and a half to five thousand, first tons of the ten to twelve that have been cumulated. However, the point is that in the package of solutions that we have found, with the synergy and solidarity of two prefectures and HYTAFs that will receive them, to be honest, we have added, according to the relevant press releases, that in one and a half months from now, we will bring the full design for waste volumes based on the most modern methods, which will ultimately be left as a residue to go to HYTY, that is, with the application of the most modern methods, so that they can be integrated into a regional and national design, in a way specific, healthy, etc. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Indeed, I have identified from these two major meetings that we held that there were and there are from lack of understanding to obsessed, which lead to the dangers you implied or even understood directly. That is unacceptable. There really needs to be a radical improvement in the situation, especially in the medium to long term, because the summer season is coming, where the population will double there by domestic and foreign people, as Mrs Kouduras said about the extra people from the cruises going there. If the situation does not improve radically, we will see how it will be dealt with very decisively and we will talk and see what responsibilities will be attributed. It is, however, a critical situation where local government - and it has the way - should stand up in the face of its responsibilities to its citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u92	Because of the interest, we've exceeded time, but it's okay. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u93	Thanks, but I won't need them. I know very well that you've done everything. With Mr. Tsironi, we have already talked about the trash of Tripoli and a solution has been launched. You know, Minister, I'm not in favour of repression. I am also in favour of democratic dialogue and of resolving everything with dialogue. This is the greatness of democracy. But there are two sayings I want to remind you of them: When one does not do his job properly - and surely someone does not do it there - "Where no word is missing," he says, "he is throwing a rod" from Christian religion or the other that says "and the holy monster wants". I believe that you have exhausted - and I believe this thing - all the peaceful means of dialogue with these people. Since about eighty tons are collected every day, to leave the thirteen thousand will take a month and, which means that the summer has entered, the population you say - amplify it as I say - the temperature will be up. Because - and without exaggerating - health does not have a party label and it concerns thousands of people in this region, I believe that something should be done there much sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u94	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u95	No, thank you, Mr. President. I think we have clarified the issues. We'll do whatever goes through our hand and our minds about this situation. It's critical.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u96	Good. The fourth question will be discussed with number 127/20-4-2015, on the second question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Authority (PO). In the timely question, the Minister will answer George Stathakis. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, there is still ambiguity about the privatisation of the PPA. There was an election stand that the port was not sold. Circles of the Ministry of Finance have been expressed in favour of encouraging the privatisation of the PPA - the well-known letter by Mr Varoufakis. However, during the reading of the government's programming statements, Mr. Dritsas said from the Step of the House that "we have already announced our commitment to stop privatising the PPA and the EGF and it is a guarantee of the public character of the ports of the country". The whole ambiguity is contradictory in the press statements that 51%, 20%, 67%, will be a consortium, etc. We ask: Given the SYRIZA's pre-election commitment to the non-privateisation of the PPA, what will the government do on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. We are all aware that the port of Piraeus - like other ports in the country - is a crucial pillar for the development of the country, is one of the most important transit-communal hubs at the moment in the Greek - Italian Mediterranean and Europe's central gate with huge prospects of upgrading and operating as a centre of great scope for transit trade. The Government is intent - and is committed - on stepping up all the port legislation in order to have a model of port management fully compatible with the requirements that exist and to comply with the principles and rules of a modern port system. The foundations of this model that the government will make are currently in the middle of two important developments and negotiations. One side is the negotiation that is currently taking place with the European institutions to determine the limits and conditions for the current 'privateisations', which relate to the ongoing privatisations that we have inherited from the past. This concerns one part of the negotiation. And it's not just the ongoing ones are, of course, others that are currently on the list and have not come to the debate. Our policy towards this negotiation is very clear, very structured and seeks to maximise and change the terms and conditions for the exploitation of public property for the benefit of the public. On the other hand, the government in a few months has developed a multifaceted geopolitical and economic strategy, which concerns the development of multilateral relations with China, with the initiatives and visits of government officials, and a very great effort to achieve mutually beneficial development of transnational and commercial relations with China. The second point concerns the contract itself, which is currently under way. The government - the WID most - is naturally in negotiations with COSCO, so that terms and conditions can be sought in the current competition that can change and must be changed, in order to be more beneficial to our country and to be more fully in line with the initial point of my position, which concerns a modern port management model. These double negotiations are ongoing. It makes no sense at the moment to have a debate on exactly what is being discussed or where the government will end before these two parallel discussions are concluded, which, I repeat, also concern the debate on an agreement with the institutions pursued by the Government and the debate on the renegotiation of contracts with COSCO.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u100	Minister, I am sorry for the speech, but because it is being observed in practice, you have said that the negotiations are being negotiated by the TIADE, but I think the TIADE has now been abolished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u101	It's not gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u102	He was accused by law and merged. I note it just for the Minutes. If you don't mind, no problem. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say to you, Mr Stathakis, that at the moment there is a question of consistency because, in his statement at the REAL NEWS on 22-2-2015, Mr Lafazanis responding to a question from 'REAL NEWS' if he would be in favour of privatization of the PPA, he says: 'I don't think the declarations of the Ministry of Finance were correctly attributed. There is no question of privatization, much more of the PPA. Greece is not a banana”. Mr Dritsa said that 'we will renegotiate all the 'COSCO' conventions. Also, you didn't tell us anything about the friendly arrangement that exists. We also want you to tell us if it is true that the troika had asked PASOK and the New Democracy to sell 23%. There's information and publications. Why are we currently selling more than 23% of the PPA? You will keep your election commitment. There are press releases, interviews. In fact, in an interview with the "THEBER DESCRIPTION", on 28-1-2015, Mr Dritsas asked how the privatisations of the PPA would be frozen and answered: "The GOD will suspend the procedures". Also, Mr. Dritsas had declared PPA in January 2015: "The contract with "COSCO" helps to make the company profit. It simply does not add value to the Greek production process. So we need a review of everything." We ask again: will you review the whole process, the friendly settlement? Finally, what stage are we at? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u104	Minister, before I give you the floor for your dentistry, you will allow me to make three brief announcements. The Standing Committee on Moroccan Affairs presents its report to the draft law 'Emergency measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'. Also, I have two letters to read. First, "To the President of Parliament, Mr. Konstantopoulou. Madam President, I ask for permission to be absent from the plenary session from 8 May to 11 May 2015 due to my absence abroad. The applicant MEP Mr Dimitrios Kammenos’. Secondly, 'Mr President of Parliament', I would like in this letter to inform you of my absence from 3 to 5 May in Rome, as I have been invited as coordinator of the 'One in Five' campaign of the Council of Europe in Greece to end child abuse, so that I can represent the Council of Europe at the Conference on 'Safe spot for youung Athens PSS', which is organised under the extended partial agreement on sport. With great appreciation, Helena Raptis, MP of Thessaloniki". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u105	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u106	I think you have agreed that we are managing a situation that we did not create. That's for granted. This being said, the government is being called today - I repeat, in the context of all the negotiations and the openings it has made at geopolitical and economic level - to manage it in the best possible way, radically changing a number of aspects relating to the Piraeus Port Authority. We insist - and this is the intention - that the total management of the port be carried out on the public side, so that the public interest can be fully guaranteed. From there on, with regard to this form and developments in the issue you are asking me, we will have to wait shortly before we take the final decisions that will be made from the ongoing negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u107	We proceed to the fifth, with reference to the second question by Mr Kyriakos Kyriakos Karakides, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, regarding the figures and data relating to the total amount of loans to businesses and households, the amount of red loans and the amount of guaranteed loans from the Greek State. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. On 4 March I tabled a written question to the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, but also to the Minister of Economy, Mr Stathakis, on the regulation of red loans. I received an answer on 11 March from Mr Stathakis, who did not satisfy me at all, saying that the matter is directly being regulated. The issue of red loans is a complex problem, and its solution needs braveness from both the institutions, with which we have been negotiating all this time and from the banks, but also from the political leadership of all of Parliament's places. But, above all, we need a people's bravery, whether they are individual or business. The size of the courage and courage that all of us will show will also give the appropriate results. I therefore believe that the government should give special priority to the regulation of red loans. I see the Minister's reports that the legislature will take place within six months. This has been declared publicly on several occasions. Then I do not see the reason for the answer that legislation is directly on the table, because I do not think the pace of the word 'direct' is six months, since two months have passed already since I tabled the question. I would first like to ask, Minister, when exactly will the relevant legislation be tabled and what the main priorities will be. I would also like you to provide me with a series of data and data that will help me, when the bill is discussed, to have a good deal of readiness, and these concern the total amount of loans to businesses and households, the amount of red loans and the amount of guaranteed loans from the Greek State. In addition, I would like to know and what is the total amount per count of the downturns from accredited loans to businesses and households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u109	Minister, I'm sorry. I'd like to make some brief announcements. "Mrs. President, I will be away from the House from Thursday, May 7th and May 11th, 2015, to attend the annual memorial in Cyprus of the prototype Michael Karaolis and Andreas Dimitrios and to speak in two lectures. The applicant MEP, Konstantinos Zouraris’. "Mr President, please allow me a little day's absence from abroad from 24 May to 4 June 2015, for personal reasons. Mr Konstantinos Vlassi.' "Mr President of the Parliament, I hereby inform you that on the dates 11 to 14 May 2015 I will have to absent myself abroad for personal reasons and ask for this permission for my justified absence from Parliament. Theocharis Theocharis, MP in Athens, Potami". Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u110	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u111	I'll start with the statistical data. As you know, the statistics are the ones that exist since 31-12-2014, come from the Bank of Greece and we expect their update in mid-May. According to the existing figures of December 31, 2014, the total loans provided by banks are EUR 248 billion: 27 billion are consumer, almost 70 billion in housing and 150 million in business. Non-performing loans, out of 250 billion, are about 100 billion: 14 billion consumer, 25 billion housing and 60 business. Non-performing loans account for about 40% of all loans granted to the economy. Approximately 20% of these have already been denounced and are concerned solely or principally with business loans. The problem is complex. The government, without taking hasty decisions, has drawn up a comprehensive strategy for all categories of loans and is trying to activate existing laws and new supplementary legislation, where necessary, within this overall strategy. I would remind you that there are three categories of loans. Each has its specific features and has a specific framework, in which it can best be dealt with, with or without changes. One category of loans is business and we need to split them into two categories: the business loans of small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. The small and medium-sized enterprises are distinguished by the fact that legislation that has not started to implement has been introduced on this subject. I am referring to the Law Nines, which had been voted on and which, with small changes, could be the starting point for activation, in order to implement concrete incentives to regulate these loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u112	Let me fix you. There was a plan. Law to be voted did not make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u113	I would remind you that the basic idea of the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u114	No, no law was passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u115	Don't interrupt, Mr. Yakumate. Let's listen to the Minister and then interfere in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u116	What can we hear? There was no law. It was a plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u117	Draft law, all right. In this draft law, to cover my fellow Member, there was a central idea, which involved a combination of the restructuring of micro-enterprise loans with an incentive to regulate debts to banks and the public. Our intention is to have an institutionalisation in this direction, which creates incentives for enterprises to serve their loans up to 30% to 35% of their profits, ensuring both their viability and the smooth service of loans. The second major category is large business loans. There is a broad debate there. There is a great controversy between banks and businesses. It is a well-known matter of changing the rules of bankruptcy law. The government is studying the matter. It hasn't resulted in decisions. As regards housing loans, the third category, in addition to the Katseli Act, which has been voted on - I am joking about this with my colleague - and the Code currently in existence on the part of the Bank of Greece with a minimum income of EUR 1,100, there is an in-depth debate on how additional data can be activated under existing laws and at the same time, how and how to process, which can be institutionalised and created by a'red' management body for loans up to six months. It wants a specific process of study and approval by European institutions - I am thinking of the Competitiveness Directorate and the European Central Bank - so that the law can function fairly and effectively. With regard to the bill, I repeat that our strategy is uniform. We are trying to give a comprehensive solution to this issue. We have a comprehensive strategy and proposals. I repeat that all legislative initiatives will be tabled relatively soon, over six months, in order to address the most complex problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Charakides, you have the time for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you reiterated at the closure of your prototype in the six-month period again, and that is worrying because, if every month we are waiting again in semester, then things, unfortunately, do not give us the hope that this problem will be solved. I know very well that you have, by election, made infinite contacts with chambers and business operators and you know this better than most of them. I am talking about this because I have been the President of the Chamber of Drama for ten years. I know that very well. I know very well - and we must all know and inspire it - that to get out of the crisis that is plagued by our country, the real economy must first be activated, businesses must be rescued. The rescue of businesses will mean the relaunch of the economy, so we will also see unemployment, the biggest problem affecting our country, falling. I would also like you to tell me why I did not hear it - unless it was mentioned at a time when there was a fuss - if it is provided for in the legislation that you will have to bring in. For you have sometimes talked about the mandatory nature of the law Trees - I, too - or the new Stathakis law. I would also like you to tell us a little what you are thinking about bankruptcy law. You know - you were pro-electionist - that bankruptcy law in our country is antiquated. It is an inhibiting factor for investment and especially for foreign investments, where it is not modern with the investors' countries, the Banking Law in Greece. I would also like you to pay particular attention - even though you are involved in the legalisation and the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting Office of the State with the I25 - to loans with the guarantee of the Greek State. The loans with the guarantee of the Greek State, therefore, have become a loop in the neck of small and medium-sized enterprises. When the guarantees were given, businesses were saved. At this time every day we have small and medium-sized businessmen to be on the self-sufficient and to be brought either to prison or to trial. So you need to see two things. Honestly, the sooner you see them, the sooner we give these businesses solutions. These two things are to be checked to determine how many loans have been made and what total amounts have been deposited and have been established by the public authorities. Because there are loans in which they have been discounted and have not been confirmed. There are loans in which the banks have not been paid but have been established in the public sector and the small businessman is being persecuted for these loans, which he has not even paid the public. That can't be the case. In other words, the public is claiming money, which it has not paid to the banks. I think we need to look at the issue of guarantees in these loans, because it is not only that the first debtor is suffering but that the guarantor is also suffering. And note the peculiarity: These loans, which were given on specific terms - that is to say, subjecting to a loan with the guarantee of the State - are considered to be a contract of three parties, namely the company, the bank and the State which guarantees - the conditions of this contract were not fulfilled and without the conditions of the contract being met, the bank is coming in, asking for the bankruptcy to be unlawfully or irregularly - rather illegally - and the Greek State goes and gives this money. I think you should check it immediately, recover the money paid and ask for a check if there is a breach of duty by those who have accepted these rebates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u120	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u121	For the first section, I will close by saying to do a few weeks of patience and we will have a better picture. The second issue you raised concerns loans guaranteeing the Greek State. As you know, these loans were given at a time with rather very loose conditions and a number of problems. The amount of these loans, as you know, reaches about 2 billion and belongs to this category of business loans, mainly in northern Greece, with the guarantee of the Greek State. There was an attempt to resolve the issue with some legislative initiatives by the previous government, to which we as opposition then had responded positively. I am referring to the Shahinides initiative, when it was discussed. Since then, the problem has remained. In other words, there are strong obstacles from the Commission to this solution, just as it has been formulated. So the problem seems to remain unresolved at the moment, without being able to find a viable solution, just as we would all like. I fully share the spirit of your position. There must be a sustainable plan for control, transparency and recovery, of course, of this process in a stable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded here. After consulting the President and applying the majority decision of the Conference of Presidents, we will be interrupting for 10 (10) minutes and the sitting on legislative work will begin at 21: 00' exactly, probably with the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, may I have the floor on a question of mine?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u125	I had asked a question to my own, unanswered report...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Kegeroglu, when I went up to the Chair, it had already been erased from what I learned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u127	What I want to say to the Bureau is that it was not debated on Thursday because Mr Varoufakis said that he was unreserved. The question concerns the 1.2 billion that the government has committed itself to recovering. This morning, in fact, Mrs Valavani's office, which contacted me, also stated that this was inappropriate. He'll be re-enacted. Next week we will see if there is a competent Minister to finally answer the matter. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u128	I hope there is, and I hope there is. So, ladies and gentlemen, at 21: 00, we will start legislative work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Repeat, I propose that we keep a minute's silence in memory of the two hundred executions of Cesarean, the anniversary of which was completed on Friday. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Seventy years have passed since the end of World War II, seventy years that humankind must remember and honor and celebrate. I would like to mention to you that I will represent the House in the commemoration events that will take place in Russia next Saturday, as well as in Mauthausen next Sunday. I intend to propose to the committee the claim of German debt compensation, compensation, redress, repayment of the loan and reimbursement of the stolen archaeological treasures, that a special meeting of the victims and burnt-outs be held in plenary. Already in room 151, the map of the red dots of the martyr cities and villages has been posted, the scattered map of Greece. I therefore propose that - and I shall also propose to the intergroup on German debts, which will meet on Thursday which is coming - a special meeting will be held in Parliament during which Members from all the martyrial villages and the martyrial sites will be able to refer to and place themselves in their areas in particular. I know that it is indelibly the wounds and stigma that the Nazi atrocity has left, and I think the best way to activate the claim, with substantial reference to history, is to connect it to today and to connect it to local martial villages and cities. I believe that this proposal will be accepted unanimously by the committee, and I imagine that it is welcome both by the House and by the Members of all the parties who come from places of testimony and testimony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u130	We are now entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democratisation of Administration - Combating Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions". I would like to ask all colleagues and colleagues to disable their phones. It is, in fact, the least we can do when we are in this Chamber and we are also being watched by citizens. The Conference of Presidents decided, at its last meeting of 30 April 2015, to discuss the draft law at three meetings. Tonight we had scheduled for the 2000th hour to start legislative work, but parliamentary control lasted longer, as Vice-President Kaklamanis told me, and the legislative work was shifted. However, this will not be at the expense of legislative work. What we had planned to do in this meeting, namely the first place, of the Deputy Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Katrugalos, the rapporteurs and the first speakers, as well as, if necessary, the Minister, Mr. Voutsi, will be done tonight...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u131	I will speak tomorrow, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u132	Tomorrow, Mr. Voutsi? So tonight, this meeting is going to be adjourned at 10:00 a.m. tomorrow. I propose that our meeting be held today until twelve and a half. You will also see it with the Vice-President, Mrs Charalapidou, who will replace me shortly in the Chair - I think she will be another Vice-President. To interrupt this evening's sitting at about twelve and a half, for tomorrow at 10 a.m., to continue tomorrow at the beginning of the debate until 2 noon and to vote at first at 14 noon. From 14.00 a.m. to 18.00 a.m. I propose that the debate be opened on the articles, that an interruption should take place, that we proceed to the third sitting and that the debate on the articles should continue until twelve a.m. tomorrow, and that I propose that the articles and any amendments be put to the vote. In today's session, then, the bill is discussed in principle. I am referring to the fact that the competent Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice announced and published its report on 24 April 2015, so it has provided sufficient time for Members to also be aware of the bill after the preparation, and the relevant report. And so we can enter the first debate, which I would remind you that it begins with its oral development by the Minister responsible. The rapporteurs, the special speakers, namely the rapporteurs of the parties from the third to the seventh party, will then speak, and finally, the Members who have joined the list of speakers in the debate in principle. The list of speakers will take place after the start of the debate and until the end of the speech of the rapporteurs, we mean the first two rapporteurs, namely SYRIZA, Maria Theleritis and the New Democracy of Simos Kedicoglou. The list of speakers will be closed at the end of Mr Kedicoglou's speech. Parliamentary Members of Parliament shall be entitled, if they so request, until the end of the debate in principle. That is, in short, whoever wants to answer for a second, by 13.00 a.m., is good to have said it tomorrow. The debates in the first reading of the bill are governed by Rules 64, 97 and 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the House applicable accordingly. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the members of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt, who I think will be very interested in attending the next debate. I give the floor immediately to the relevant Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, George Karugalo. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in its five chapters, the current draft law attempts a number of key institutional areas that have as their main objective the democratisation and rationalisation of the administration with immediate measures and the restoration of injustices. On both levels it is about the first intervention of our Government, which gives us an essential sample of writing, but in no case is it intended to exhaust our institutional intervention. Neither can we restore nor is the institutional division that we seek to bring to the body of public administration, so that we have a state for all citizens and not a state for the few. Nevertheless, this bill is the first blow to the institutional logic of the Memorandum of Understanding or - to say otherwise - the first blow to the neoliberal logic that a society of 1/3 and a state want for a few. There is no distinction between public and private sector in the application of this neoliberal logic. The persistence of collective redundancies in the private sector has its view of the redundancies which have been made unnecessarily in the public interest, staff who have never been evaluated and of structures that have been offered to the public interest. I would like to see who would argue against the re-recommendation, for example, of the Municipal Police. I feel that it is precisely the social and political isolation of this neoliberal logic in the debate in the committee and in particular in the positions of the bodies. Only New Democracy voted against the bill, while of the more than thirty bodies called in the debate before the committee, everyone supported the general direction of the draft law and not only organisations representing the victims of this policy but even large-scale democratic representations where there are no friendly majority of our own government, such as the CSCE and the EIA. Let's get them in order. The first chapter of the bill relates to interventions in the field of democracy. What I said at the outset is confirmed, namely that the distinction between public and private sectors is not sound and that a dominant political logic is actually applied to both of these horizontal ones. What we are trying to do in the first article is to stop the state from being the "long arm" of those interests that are against work, not being forced to impose an army, an institution that our Constitution did not want to anticipate to deal with the strike, but only to deal with the natural disasters, public health crisis, or in the event of war. During the Memorandum of Understanding, between 2010 and 2014, six instances of strike-supporting civilian activities were, the same number as those we had between 1975 and 2010. We also had extreme cases where a political strike was imposed before the strike was declared, as was the case with OLEME teachers. The first article comes to put an end to this situation. It reiterates as grounds for declaring the political backing or the ordering of personal services, such as the technical legal term, only in those cases explicitly provided for in the Constitution. And paragraph 2 provides that under no circumstances may this arrangement be activated as a strike mechanism. To those who are trusted or misguided ask: 'What if there is, say, a situation of what the Constitution provides for as grounds for ordering personal services, such as the state of crisis in public health?' the answer remains that service requirements can be imposed but not as a strike mechanism. Already the provisions concerning the strike, not only in the public sector but also in all services of a public nature, provide for the obligation to have security personnel, which ensures that a situation of a similar nature arises. And, in any case, those of you who insist in favour of the need to have a similar political backing as a strike mechanism, show us even a country in Europe that has a similar mechanism. In essence, this provision reintroduces the country to the regularity of the common European legal culture. We are reintroducing rights provided for by international labour conventions and by our Constitution. Article 2 attempts to open up the administration to society, in particular to the sensitive area of independent authorities. It is envisaged, in an introductory and entirely advisory nature, that social actors such as universities, such as associations of judicial officers, or other civil society organisations, should recommend the names to cover the positions of the APRC and the Citizens' Counselor, such as in the original wording of the law, and on the basis of the legislative improvement I made in committee, with the agreement of the Ministers for Justice and State, "to all the independent authorities". It shall return, in the original version again, to the APA age limit. I would remind you that in the original wording of Article 2 of Law 2190/1994 a age limit was laid down for the members of the AACC in the seventh year and for the President of the AACC in the seventh quarter. That provision was later repealed. We are reintroducing it, with regard to the members of the AACC and, by extension, after this general arrangement concerning all the independent authorities, in order to have a general, implicit and objective arrangement for everyone, in the seventh year of age for the members of the independent authorities and in the seventh third for the President. Since for the AACC the term is six years, there is the possibility that a judge has been appointed, who, as you know, has been retired to the sixty-seventh year, so the seventeenth year is a more reasonable age than the seventh. The second chapter of the bill relates to a major action aimed at two things - like the first chapter - which is the following: firstly, it seeks to find our way back as a favoured nation among those states in Europe which respect the rule of law and basic principles that support it, such as the presumption of innocence. It is also intended, however, to reverse the climate of fear which had been attempted to prevail in the public administration with the persecution of trade unionists, which they had described as disciplinaryly inappropriate behaviour and, in particular, by the activation of Disciplinary Law as a fear of public officials. Those who had demonised the public administration, those who signed the myth that a million civil servants are tormenting the rest of the ten million Greeks, especially those who did not really want to reform the state but impose that few state, which impose the doctrines of neoliberalism, did indeed need fear as a weapon for the prevalence of these policies. What do we do? We are reintroducing the institution of a potential holiday, namely the possibility to put before disciplinary sentence the civil servant out of office, but only when the public interest requires it and not as a general measure which was imposed on right and wrong and which has the effect of simply disciplinary referral to the Board, fair and unfair civil servants, guilty and not guilty, without the possibility of automatically defending themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u134	Minister, excuse me. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be quiet. First of all, the image you are presenting from here does not really commemorate Parliament. Please, be quiet. If you want to chat, get out. Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u135	We also say that under no circumstances constitutes inappropriate behaviour, within the meaning of disciplinary provisions, trade union, political or social action. I have to say something that I have already mentioned at the beginning of my position. This is not about our final conversation, about our final speech in the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials. We reserve, after consultation with society, a new staff code plan toward the end of the year, where we will reconstruct our opinion of what disciplinary offences should be. In this chapter we have confined ourselves to codifying existing regulations and simply dealing with the most extreme phenomena, where Disciplinary Law is not used as its task, to better make the public administration better, but for the purposes of other things that I have described. In this way, I respond to criticisms made within the committee that we might have otherwise settled questions of Disciplinary Law. The third Chapter concerns the daily life of the citizen, dealing with issues of bureaucracy, in particular through the introduction of electronic governance institutions and the widening of citizens' rights, in particular through the extension of the rights conferred by the Code of Administrative Procedure and private legal persons. Because, as you know, so far, this code has only been applied to the state and to the legal persons governed by public law. I must say here that it is to the credit of this House that we have had many provisions which have been voted unanimously, namely by the vote of the New Democracy, and in this respect I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Kedicoglou. Here, therefore, it is primarily attempting to speed up procedures with the involvement of e-government methods, primarily with the efforts of the IASC, which is one of the cornerstones of the objectivity of the functioning of the public administration, by providing for an electronic file, which will allow for a faster adoption of its decisions, and also by generalising the provision for electronic horizontal communication between the ministries. Here I must tell you that, apart from attempting to continue the work of the previous governments - and I must add to this point the Caesar Caesar - there are major problems in continuing this good work, precisely because, due to the shrinkage imposed by the Memorandum Policies in the last year, the public now lacks basic know-how, nuclear know-how, in order to enable all these projects that have been launched at programme level to do so. Nevertheless, with awareness of the difficulties we have, we are trying to introduce as an obligation of the administration some basic obligations that will improve the everyday life of all Greeks. The most important of these is the authoritative search by the administration of all the necessary supporting documents, if a number of them are needed for the issue of a licence or an administrative act. There was a similar arrangement in the past, but there was an exception. It was, in other words, foreseen that ministerial decisions would determine which procedures could be subject to this rule. We reversed the rule and exception relationship. As a rule, we have set the obligation for the administration to run and not make the citizen run from gusset to grease and only exceptionally where the procedures are either particularly massive and time-consuming or there is a specific problem, we have foreseen the possibility of exception. The fourth chapter is the reintroduction of injustices. Although some of the well-known political spaces defending the Memorandumic Policies appeared to be troikas, that is to say, questioning this political initiative as a number of unilateral energy, we are moving on to it, not only because it is one of our basic electoral commitments, not only, as I said, introductory terms, because it is a blow to the neoliberal logic of the construction of the state for a few, and not to many, but above all because no purpose in the public interest was served by the sacrifice of thousands of people who were made available and then made redundant. One of the largest negative services, one of the greatest sins of the anti-reformation of the previous period, was that it defamated absolutely useful concepts for administrative reorganisation of the administration. For example, mobility is absolutely necessary for a public administration, such as the Greek one, which because of the customer system is not characterised by its large size. We were around the average of the European Union and the OECD in 2010 and then we had nine hundred and forty thousand civil servants, and today we have six hundred and twenty thousand civil servants, including legal persons under private law. For the distribution of staff, because of the patronage and customer arrangements, because of the protection offered to some with complete indifference as to whether the first-line services are to be provided, that is to say, those that show the social mission that the state fulfils, the health, the education, with the under-regulatory mechanisms, because the system of interoperability of interests had to protect themselves, mobility is necessary from the outset and much more today that we have this massive downgrading of the human resources of the administration, which is not only numerical but also an institutional knowledge and experience. Because most of those who constitute the reduction from the nine hundred thousand to six hundred thousand are managers of the administration who left with early retirements and who have lacked the necessary know-how, the necessary institutional memory and the continuity of the public administration. And I will ask you this: even you who will vote against the bill can seriously claim that, apart from neoliberal arrest, this counter-reformism, which has hit the weakest people, school guards, cleaners, teachers of technical education, those who have not had any protector? Even where you abolished legal persons, others were fired and others were not. That is why I am justified in characterizing the customer application of the neoliberal conception of this counter-reformation. I repeat: Which one of you will stand up and say that the Municipal Police must not come back when the HNDTP, the average person moving in a jungle because of the unregulated parking is asking for it today? How can you justify and say that this counter-reformation was indeed something that promoted the necessary changes? That is why we are not just restoring injustices, we are not bringing people who have been wrongly prosecuted without having been personally assessed, but we are serving the public interest at the same time. In fact, this is why we are not reintroducing all those who have been laid off or made available in their previous positions. We did so only where the relevant ministries said that the necessary positions should be reconstituted as a whole. In other cases, on the one hand, we have put in place a voluntary mobility system, which, as I said before, is absolutely necessary to rationalise the distribution of human resources and, on the other hand, we have provided for the possibility for the relevant Minister to place where more needs exist in his ministry or in supervised bodies, on the basis of a legislative improvement that I have accepted in committee, those who return. Our purpose is therefore twofold. Restoration of injustices, while serving the public interest. And this mobility we are implementing will also be the premise of major mobility, the one that will complete our reform. The next bill soon to come concerns the evaluation, targeting and selection of executives. We will seek to fully record the current needs of the public, so that with the limited possibilities we have, we can meet the needs, as far as possible. I repeat, this was a first aid bill. We are faced with the most extreme situations of dysfunctional or disorganizational behaviour caused by the counter-reformation of the memorandums. It's not our last word, it's our first word. We are, however, giving a sign of writing for the administration we want, an administration that will be in the interests of the citizen and a sample of the reform that we will pursue, which will not be counter-reformed by a neoliberal sign but a reform with a social person, seeking to bring our country back to the dance of the legally civilised states, where there is no strikers' return or the abolition of the presumption of innocence. Where general and impersonal rules are applied and not customer relations and patronage relations. We will also achieve this with the cooperation of civil servants, because we cannot implement a reform with the civil servant as an enemy. We're talking to them. We are also listening to what they will tell us, without obviously committing ourselves from the point of view of the officials. But we do not consider them to be the cause of the problems that public administration is currently facing, because they too were the victims of the customer policies and patronage policies that we want to abolish. And even where there is a basis for criticism of the trade union movement - for badly lies, client system and old-fashioned communism - it also has to a very large extent been the trade union structures of the public administration - it is not a matter of total abolition of participation, such as the disciplinary boards, for example, but of confidence in the ability of workers to express trade unions from those who have this mission, away from customers' reasonable and reasonable patronage. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that with the legislative improvements that we accepted in the context of the debate, which aim to give a choice to all the officials who are returning, even where we initially objected, as in the field of Municipal Police, I think we generally responded to what we wanted this bill to have as a mission. This bill I presented but it is the result of a joint legislative work, Minister Nikos Voutsis and I. It's Voutsi - Katrugalou, Katrugalo - Voutsi, it's not Katrugalou bill. In particular, however, the arrangement for the coordinator of decentralised administration is a creation of Nikos Voutsi. It is an incision to the Greek public administration, because it restores the trust in the official's hierarchy. He doesn't want where a hierarchical chief of staff needs to replace him with a political leader. It therefore attempts an institutional division that controls the legality of the state does not take place under political criteria - because I told you "away from us the logic of customer and patronage" - but in a way that gives confidence in the service hierarchy. So that's what I wanted to say. We reserve with Nikos Voutsi and our next bills to move in this direction, the reintroduction of Greece into the orbit of the social state, what is characteristic of the European social model, an administration based on individual rights, the participation of managers and civil servants away from the neoliberal logic of a state for many and not a state for few.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I must say that it is a very pleasant Chamber, and it is a very good picture of the Ministerial Council, which is present with such great participation. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that in addition to the Committee on Truth, Public Debt, which is following the meeting and which we welcome, we are also attending our meeting from the upper western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-eight students and students and twenty educational sessions of the Hellenic College of Tourism, Food and Services. I had the pleasure of meeting them in Armenia as well. They visit our country by tightening the relations between Armenia and Greece. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] After thanking the Minister - I institutions for his constitutional reference to the social rule of law, which is the core of our civilisation - I will invite Mrs Maria Theleritis, the rapporteur of SYRIZA to move to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, today the draft law on the democratisation of administration, the fight against bureaucracy, e-government, the restoration of injustices and other provisions is coming to Parliament. With this bill, the government is taking a first transitional but decisive step towards tackling distortions in public administration. At the same time, however, it also gives an essential message of what is its general political direction, namely to radically change the state's administrative and political functions for the benefit of society and public space and, at the same time, to move forward with the reform and democratisation of state-citizen relations. For SYRIZA, the government, the institutional and democratic reconstruction of the state is part of its direct government programme. It responds to the demand for state and public administration reforms. However, we know that this also requires a great deal of effort in terms of time and intensity in order to deal with all the sufferings of public administration, a public administration, which is now on the verge of collapse. Because despite what the Memorandum Governments have claimed, not just did nothing to cure them, but instead further exacerbated them, creating new social inequalities, weakening the public sector and availability. They demolished public goods because of the availability. It is a first aid project, as the Minister called it in committee, and it just came to cure these obvious injustices and the enormous social and economic consequences that the PASOK and New Democracy government brought to workers citizens and society themselves. But what are the consequences of the monumental and austerity policies in the public sector? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to the most skeptical, that the consequences of restrictive policies in the public sector and the consequences of its deterioration, which has been carried out in an orderly and systematic manner over the last four years, are not limited to the narrow core of the public sector, but rather to the general deterioration of the economy and society. I will not go into detail what that means to society. I am simply going to mention some evidence that demonstrates exactly the impact these memorial policies have had on the public sector. According to the survey by the social polycentric of ADEDY, employment in the public sector decreased by two hundred and twenty thousand forty-three employees and 21%. Labour relations have declined and a single labour model of regression has been established, both in terms of pay trends and in terms of the overall context of work. Public services are suffocating and are unable to respond to their development and social roles, due to lack of staff and operational resources, due to the increased and diffuse insecurity of workers and the redundancies, disciplinary charges and available resources. The state gradually declines to health and welfare. Public funding is slowing down, while at the same time a 20% premium is being paid for the private health sector. These are the results of the dismantling of the social state. And at the same time, we have a 30% reduction in teachers, a reduction in school units, a deterioration in local government and, in particular, its social role, even though we have an increase in the risk of poverty - and even at the time when we have the risk of poverty rising by 54% and of 36.2% of the population. So you realise the consequences that he had for society. The deficits created by the malicious weakening of the public have a specific objective, the stigmatisation of the public sector - stigmatisation which, at the same time, creates the conditions for profitable private capital investments in the public sector. The project has been implemented. It took advantage of the State's downgrading to promote private business. It gives ground to privatisation to raise ground for contractors, strengthening the state-owned and most frequently scandalous dimension of venture capital. The imposition of the public was accompanied by the deliberate invoicing of the increased public employment - a growing public sector - and the fact that in Greece, the public employment rate was never away from the European average - the Minister mentioned this in detail - and despite the fact that public employment is unorthodoxly distributed. We have a large number of staff in some areas and huge shortages in others. The problem of over-concentration of employment in the public sector has never been confirmed and, of course, it has not been confirmed that what has happened was done without productive planning at the expense of frequent customer choices that are largely unchanged, reflecting the productivity deficit. Also, due to the deterioration of the public sector, a number of impacts are recorded in the society as a whole. The reduction in public spending by 30%. The reduction of over 1/3 of the real income of workers - and we are all aware of the many consequences that had. Indicative of this explosive situation in the field of poverty is that for the first time we have workers in the public poor. The percentage is being launched at 3.6%. And we're going on. Decrease the conditions for the provision of health services - a major blow to society as a whole. Reduction of expenditure on education. Cuts in the financing of local government. The deterioration and dismantling of the functioning of these sectors show an indicative picture of the deregulation which has been carried out in the public sector in the light of the memorandum policies of the last five years. This is the degradation of the public. And that is the reform that has been attempted. These are the results of the previous government's'reform'. Is that enough? No, he wasn't content with it. He had to do all about neoliberal policies. For this reason, the way in which the State operates itself has also changed. Memorandums and commitments leave no room for dialogue, participation in decision-making. Memorandums and commitments leave no room for fundamentally functioning democratic institutions and conquests. That is why the state is becoming increasingly hostile to citizens and society. And so to implement these neoliberal policies, what is the government doing? It's going further. Immediate amendment of the provisions of the Disciplinary Law of Officials. Is he doing this to deal with corruption phenomena? Oh, no. Is it to deal with trade phenomena that have been cultivated and under the responsibility of the previous governments and have they left them unpunished? Oh, no. It has, however, moved to subjugate, intimidate, prosecute public officials and put them on holiday for all kinds of offense, even minor, with a subjective crisis, even abolishing this presumption of innocence. He made new redundancies through availability. There has been a sloppy and unobjective movement of personnel through compulsory transfers. And why did the government of New Democracy and PASOK do this? It is precisely because it has worked within a wider social political framework, where it is precisely the 2000s that mark the passage to the era of institutionalising neoliberalism. It is a period of time, characterised by the locked policies of demolition of social cohesion in all areas of the public sphere. It is a period during which blind class domination is sought in the sense of indifference to any concept of public space, public interest or social equilibrium. At the same time, neoliberalism historically expresses the establishment of a new coalition of power under the hegemony of financial capital. It also expresses an overall policy of reconstruction of the urban state, which is currently becoming a tool for the cancellation, questioning and rescheduling of popular conquests of the previous historic period. It is precisely this change that the Government of New Democracy and PASOK implemented. The full deterioration of the role of state administration. Because these policies want total degradation. Therefore, this reform carried out by the PASOK and New Democracy Government and led the public administration to shrink, restored the public. That is why the draft law comes and introduces areas, despite the fact that this is not the vision that we have of how we want administrative reform to work. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the government receives an vast, counterproductive, anti-producer administrative, organisational system which, in order to change, wants targeted and surgical interventions. That's an attempt like that. In this huge effort, the main position of SYRIZA, which is taking place - step by step, is that the government should be actively relying on the administrative experience and knowledge of the large part of the administration, abolishing the handover of the hundreds of post-consultants who have introduced the effective privatisation of the state and public goods. SYRIZA knows - and he has always known - the customer character of the Greek state, as well as the lack of democracy. That is why on his agenda, it involves modernising the state in the sense of democratisation of the state. This draft law represents an initial step in this direction and restores the proper functioning of the administration, serves citizens on an equal and transparent basis, ensures the rights of workers in the public sector. We, colleagues and colleagues, do not believe in the neoliberal ideological myth that has developed in recent decades about less or less of a state. Because the neoliberal state is neither less nor less a state. As long as we think of the multitude of hundreds of advisors and retired officials of each minister in the previous government who put from the back door and under the cloak of the least state his privatization. This state is not a State of less regulation but a state of controlled regulation. After all, the restructuring of the political, economic and ideological objectives has been dictated and settled by the State itself. And I will not mention what are the consequences of these states' policies. One example I shall refer to. It is enough to think about the intensity of repression and the increase in authoritarianism on the part of the smaller state over the years of the crisis and the memoranda. At the same time as it did not assess the effectiveness of its operation on the basis of criteria, nor did it clearly define establishment plans and guidelines, it proceeded with redundancies, availability and abolition of unscheduled specialities, without a plan, with the pretext of budgetary benefit. That's right, no programming and no plan were fired all these people. At the same time, the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance and the administrative staff of the universities are being fired to save resources and contracts are being made with private companies at a much higher cost than the wages paid by the sanitary cleaners and with precarious labour relations. This draft law therefore abolishes the Memorandum of Understanding on the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials, abolishes the institution of availability in the context of mobility in order to rationalise the distribution of staff between services, restores anti-constitutional redundant workers, abolishes the anti-constitutional law on the evaluation of civil servants and attempts to modernise and upgrade the public sector. At the same time, it restores injustices to categories of citizens who are the result of these memorandum policies of the previous governments. What are the areas involved in this transition phase, why will other bills be followed by the Minister? In two, I'd say, sections sort them out. Who's the first? It restores basic freedoms and rights. What's he doing? It abolishes the political mission of strikes as a means of dealing with strikes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will you give me two more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u138	Everyone will be tolerant, rapporteur, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. In accordance with the Constitution and the relevant international conventions, it restores the presumption of innocence in the disciplinary procedure, replaces compulsory holidays with potential and also removes the provisions on the prosecution of trade union activity. Finally, with the withdrawal of the first section of all the commemorative dismissals and availability, as well as the reintroduction of qualifications and services that have been abolished, such as Municipal Police, School Guardians, Technical and Vocational Training Specialities, Excise Cleansers, Administrator positions at the HEIs, colleagues and colleagues, we implement our election commitment and restore injustices against civil servants. The second section concerns the democratisation of public administration and the fight against bureaucracy. In this very important section is the fight against bureaucracy with institutions and procedures for e-government. The Minister mentioned earlier in detail. I would like to stress two points: electronic issuing of certificates, electronic handling of documents, but at the same time the interconnection between the registers cannot be carried out precisely because systems are not compatible. A lot of money has been spent, but systems are not compatible, so that we can have the e-card or communicate with each other. Another important section is the rational use of human resources and the provision of existing needs by simplifying and speeding up the recruitment procedures of seasonal staff and the rental of a project contract. Here we mention the problems that exist particularly in the municipalities during the tourist season with seasonal staff. Another section which is very important is that the position of the Secretary-General is removed and replaced by a position of coordinator in each decentralised administration. This is how a new era is being formed for public administration, that is to say, that we are strengthening sovereignty and that we are achieving the state's colonisation. I would like to mention that the interest in the bill was also found in the hearing of the bodies with whom we had the opportunity to discuss at the second meeting of the committee. In fact, despite its poor visibility to systemic media and the systematic silence of the importance and positive effect of the lifting of social injustices, the interest that has been manifested has been too great. Thirty bodies - representatives of them - were involved, in their overwhelming majority, in favour of the bill with positive comments, while putting forward proposals and memos to improve them. Also, interest is shown by the tabling of large numbers of amendments where, in fact, one of the very important and major problems caused by the Memorandum policies in the public sector is being solved. In conclusion, I would like to stress the following: the draft law concerns or removes injustices which have suffered the years of the memorandum policies, more than ten categories and groups of workers. It also directly concerns the citizens of the country, given that the positive effects of restoring the injustices against workers made redundant and made available, concern families and protected members of them as well as the wider social group. Furthermore, it concerns citizens throughout the country, because it makes a decisive contribution to restoring basic freedoms and rights, combating bureaucracy and bringing about democratisation and rationalisation of public administration. I think we should see how important it is to restore all these injustices for these major categories of population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kedicoglou, has the floor. By the time Mr. Ioannis Lagos came up in Stepma, I would like to tell you that special speakers have been appointed from the Golden Dawn by Mr. Ioannis Lagos, from Potamis Panagiotis Kartsoulis, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Nikolaos Mavraganis and from PASOK Mr. Andreas Loverdes. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, three months has been closed by the SYRIZA - Independent Greek Government and we now have a clear picture of its priorities and purposes with the latest proof of this bill. Unfortunately, the priorities of the government have nothing to do with the pressing, urgent needs of our country and our society. The government's priority is not the economy, it is not more than one million unemployed. This is evidenced by the dramatic deterioration of all economic indicators in recent months. After all, when you put a person in the Ministry of Finance - with praiseworthy honesty, I would say - who knows that he didn't know or complete a tax statement, then it's obvious that you don't have any special requirements. That is why the only draft of the government we have heard about the problem of the economy is an undetermined 'political agreement' with lenders. Nothing more. We have not heard any specific development proposals. Some insist that money is favored and that growth is a time of the year that comes to law school. It'd be laughing if things weren't so dangerous. On the other hand, the government has shown admirable speed for anything that has to do with the satisfaction of electoral clientele, regardless of economic or diplomatic costs. So in Greece of the crisis, the government gave legislative priority to the reopening of ERT and the release of Savvas Xiros. Equally admirable are government's reflexes, as evidenced by this bill. It is a bill of unknown costs, which the General Accounting Office of the State has cost very vaguely at 72 million. However, no one has a clear picture - I fear neither the Minister himself - because in many articles the cost is defined as 'estimated by the acceding Minister'. How much will all these assessments be, we don't know! And all this is happening at what juncture? When they collect cash from everywhere to pay wages and pensions when the negotiations with the lenders are at a critical stage. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of priorities, as I said before. And the government's absolute priority, above all others, is shown to be the state's 'democracy'. Yes, "decoupling" is. The word 'democracy', above all, is an insult to our democracy. It is therefore a state's 'decoupling' and aims to bring parties back to public administration. At the same time, it attempts to "wrap" independent authorities and even from the back door, by imposing a seemingly innocent age limit. And all this becomes unrealistic, unbelievable cynicism. I'm leaving aside the fact that the Minister, who introduces the bill, is developing left-wing slogan. Now, 'the law is the right of the client'. I put it aside, because ethicity isn't something that's coming up. And from the answers the government gave to complaints and parliamentary questions about violations of the Code of Conduct of Ministers, we find that the government does not have much of an emotive stock. I would remind you that this code, in Article 6, states: 'Government members must avoid any conflict of interest. A conflict of interest arises from any situation in which a member of the government, a spouse or a close relative or another person, a natural or legal person, has a direct private interest, an economic interest or another, which may affect, or reasonably give the impression that it affects, the impartial and objective performance of his or her duties.’ You see, according to his answer to a question that we tabled together with our Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Minister of State, to legislate about former, even, your clients and your partner clients, is not in breach of the above-mentioned article of the Code of Conduct. Cyannically and unregulated! Of course, how the government perceives public administration, it seems to be typical in the case of the replacement of the President of the National Public Administration Centre. The previous president, who had been chosen after an exhaustive and unbiased three-stage procedure, with the invitation of several bodies - the ADEDY, the BSE and the Citizens' Counselor - to be replaced in the most opaque way by a lady, without any experience of public administration, with only obvious qualifications - and I am sorry to say that - her personal and professional relationship with two ministers. And since this lady refused the committee to answer the question about her experience with public administration, I am tabling her CV, which proves that she has no experience of administration, let alone public. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simos Kedicoglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned curriculum, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is an example of why this bill is moving in exactly the same spirit. The degradation of any modernist reform and the eruption of any change that restored the prestige of public administration, which separated the greens from the dry. In the past few years, we have failed to achieve little in relation to the prevailing conditions. We have succeeded in major blows to corruption and maladministration. For the first time the Greek state has learned how many and who are the disciplinary and criminally accountable civil servants. Over three thousand cases were examined which were in the drawer for years and hundreds of employees were removed, who harmed the public interest and abused the citizens' confidence. We have created permanent structures for monitoring and controlling disciplinary justice so as not to repeat the inappropriate behaviours of the past. We established legal certainty for the officials controlled by the removal of the service actors from disciplinary boards and only the participation of judges. This has led to an increase in the speed of case examination and a qualitative upgrading of the decisions adopted. This is also noted in his report by the Public Administration Inspector General. Now all these achievements are threatened by the arrangements of this bill that strengthen the influence of trade unions on the functioning of the public administration, even on the issues of disciplinary justice. Your target is obvious. Set up a party state, giving the trade unions the advantage. How much power? Even we're drowned in garbage without society being able to react. It is unprecedented to refer to a bill that ‘in no case shall there be any political backup or any other form of order of personal services, as a measure to deal with the strike’. You leave society to the mercy of extremist strikes. I asked you, Minister, to the committee, what if - as unfortunately has happened before - Athens is drowning in the trash. All you found to say at the time, and you repeated it, and now it is, that there are security staff involved in the services. Minister, you are well aware that the security staff are inadequate for an Athens full of garbage. What are you gonna do? Will you see public health being threatened and sitting with your hands crossed? It was also interesting, of course, that all the strikers' demands should be met. If we legislate on this, then - you know - we can abolish strikes. What will they need? The trade unions will send their requests to the Minister and he will be required to meet them. Black humor, so I don't get misunderstood! Let us be serious, because public health issues are very serious and this regulation is dangerous. It's not just us. The Scientific Council of Parliament, which has serious objections to anti-constitutionalism, tells you this too. The Council notes that Article 21(3) of the Constitution stipulates that the State is required to ensure the health of its citizens. The right to health is a constitutional limit to exercising other constitutional rights, such as the strike. Your constitutionalist, Mr. Chrysanogonos, says so, too. In the report of the Scientific Council, it is pointed out, in a word, that: ‘The total ban on the appointment of personal services in the event of a strike seems to introduce an unauthorised restriction on the application of Article 21(3) of the Constitution’. In other words, the Scientific Council tells you what we say: health is above the strike! Get rid of your ideas and obey the Constitution. You must obey common sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u142	And over the memorial!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u143	Another memorial element of the bill is the general relaxation in disciplinary matters. In fact, it favours impunity by limiting the reasons for a definitive cessation and by de facto de facto the measure of the right to self-determination. No official will be able to put himself on a fair holiday for no matter how serious a crime has been committed, unless he has been imprisoned. Like he could go to work, being in prison. Unless you were thinking about giving permission to leave, getting out of prison, going to work and coming back to work tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u144	With a bracelet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u145	With a bracelet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u146	Even if one has been referred to, ladies and gentlemen, irrevocably, for a felony, for theft, for blackmail, for bribery, for bribery, if he has not been confiscated, if he has, for example, a restrictive measure to appear in the police department of his neighborhood in the past few days? Good public administration you envision! Minister, you are wrongly dealing with the relaxation of the Disciplinary Law as a sign of favor to civil servants. On the other hand, consistent and rigorous Disciplinary Law gives value to public administration and protects consistent employees by removing the jurors. And the title of the article concerned is the most unfavourable: ‘Restoration of the presumption of innocence in the disciplinary procedure’. And he is poor, because the measure of the fair holiday was judged to the highest degree, as constitutionally acceptable administrative rather than disciplinary measures. It follows that the presumption of innocence was not in any way contrary to the presumption of innocence. Moreover, the audited or management had the possibility of requesting suspension of the measure and of deciding on the matter by the disciplinary board. In addition, the regulation on mass return, within just 15 days, of those who are currently on a fair holiday, is really a monument of ambiguity, Minister. And because ambiguity is the paradise of the lawyer, Minister, you make sure your colleagues have plenty of work. These ambiguities, however, and the possible problems that will arise, are also highlighted in the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament. The Council notes that the process of a fair holiday is an administrative measure which has been decided by the Council of State as a constitutional measure, although it is excellent but at the same time crucial to the restoration of legality and is designed to ensure the proper functioning of the service and to guarantee the public's confidence. In any case, the Scientific Council stresses that the regulation should be made more detailed on the conditions for the lifting of the fair holiday. This is the Council's position on the re-entry and availability articles. It notes the Council's self-evident view in the courts that the measure of availability is intended to limit the enlarged public sector, serves the rational distribution of staff, and in no case is it an anti-constitutional regulation, as Mr Katrugalos has often advocated. Mr Minister, with these regulations, as with the abolition of the checks on supporting documents you are not entitled to, you are wrong. You are wrong for young graduates who deserve a post in the public interest. You are wrong in society, which deserves the best possible public administration. I urge you, Minister, to present us with a judicial decision which characterises the previous government's decisions as unconstitutional. Of course, for ERT, I have heard 'the appeals', although the Council of State, ladies and gentlemen, has finally given an opinion in favour of the legality and constitutionality of that decision. Finally, Minister, what body is responsible for judging the constitutionality of either a law or an administrative act, if it is not the Council of State? But to come to the main protagonists of the bill, the trade unionists. It is unprecedented that the provision expressly stipulates that in no case is an inappropriate or inappropriate behaviour or unworthy conduct, the exercise of trade union, political and social action. Full immunity? So, full immunity? How is trade union, political and social action defined? Can pre-conflicts, violence, incarnations, be allowed? Because we've seen this before. Above all, however, I am concerned that your party has a confusing position on violence. You say there is good and bad violence, that there is the violence of power, there is revolutionary violence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little time, Madam President, a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u147	You have the same tolerance, Mr. Kedicoglou. Don't worry. The cones sometimes self-determined. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u148	So you tell us that there is good and bad violence, that violence is the mathematics of history. For years now we have been asking you to say a simple phrase. That you renounce all forms of violence from wherever it comes. But you can't tell her. That is why I am concerned with this provision. In addition, you are essentially handing over public administration to trade unionists. This means involving the trade unions in the disciplinary boards. I would put aside the diversion, a trade union body has disciplinary powers, except in its statutes of purpose and role. In essence, however, they will have the majority in the disciplinary boards, they will have power in their hands and they will all be shaking them. Even the Minister responsible will have little to do. I am concerned about the consequences, because I understand how you mean unionism, your party union. I've felt it in my pocket with the vengeance of your trade unionists in the U.S.S.S.A., who, in the most illegal way, deprived me of my pension and medical care for a government act. Is that how you understand trade union activity? I had to appeal to the courts and the decision a few days ago - and I shall be tabling it in the Minutes - is a real trick for your trade unions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Simos Kedicoglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In twenty-two pages it explains in detail how void, abusive and illegal my persecution, which characterises as "political" in order to demonstrate power to force me to change my political position. And, of course, the U.S.S.S.S.A. was convicted. These are dangerous brains. Such a union doesn't need to be in public administration unless you aim to create a party state. In such a case, you don't have to create coordinator positions. Create straight positions of popular couches. Finally, I would like you to review your plans for the independent authorities. Do not use the age limit that you arbitrarily set for the members of the ADP to clean all of them up to the independent authorities. Yes, you're changing the limit. At first it was seventy-three, then it went seventy. You have now told us that it is seventy-three for the President, seventy for the members. Minister, in order to be okay, you must at least let the current presidents and members of independent authorities complete their statutory term of office, otherwise you will confirm the worst suspicions. We'll say more then. Of course we are voting against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Kedicoglou. Minister, I hope that you have provided an adequate basis for the fact that, for the New Democracy as well, health is a very important asset, such as under the conditions of protection of social rights, the European Social Charter, etc. I think it is time to restore health violations, hospital closures, the redundancies of doctors and nurses and the lack of access to medicines.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u150	What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u151	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u152	The reason is the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking today about the bill that came from the side of the coup d'état, in order to restore some injustices and re-enter some unfair - perhaps - made redundant of various jobs. The standing position of the Golden Dawn - we have said and stressed it in our first parliamentary presence and now that all this has happened - is that, of course, we are in favour of having work, working and living decently for Greek citizens. So those who are unjustly fired must re-enter and work properly. After all, we have stressed and are not going to get tired of saying that the economic mess of our country in recent years is not due to the workers, but to the various majestics, granddaughter and great interests, which are rampant in our country. Unfortunately, however, we do not see - and we repeat this once again - the current government has not been in the mood to resolve the issue. I'll see you then. We had asked for the first time and for the first committees that took place specifically on the issue of municipal police, to meet the request of the four hundred municipal policemen who had asked to stay in ELAS, because it was difficult to get back from where they had gone with their families and why they had the appropriate training. That was accepted. We're happy about that. Another request was also accepted for the remaining three hundred cleaners and not for the six hundred fighters who were known. We talked about the three hundred cleaners that had fixed-term contracts and in the original bill there was no re-take of them. It has also been discussed and accepted. So is the right thing to do. The question we wanted to do, however, is this: These people will be hired again and they will come back. Their wages, who will they be? Will they come back to get 350 euros, 400 euros? Will they live on the basis of these wages? We have come to situations now in Romania and Bulgaria. So our point will no longer be to have one and a half million unemployed, but to make them a million, but all four hundred thousand to live on hunger wages and have reached them at such a point that we will actually be told and thank you for taking even four hundred. This is a very important factor. We would like to see who the wages of these people are, whether they are decent and to see them in a few months' time, if that is the case. Another important issue that has to do with this is how to get money for these people to get paid. We see here that our country's economy is on tragic points. I wish you could find ways to solve them. I wish. We will be together and support any effort to find money and to be attributed to Greek workers, public health and public education. I wish all this would happen, although we don't see it as possible. Because from where we were saying that we would tear the memorials, make a debt audit and put red lines which are not going to be exceeded, we are again seeing a process, we have gone to Europe and, in fact, the various European leaders, so that we can get one more dose, we can get it out for another three or two months later. It's not working that way. At some point you must sit, Ministers and gentlemen of the government, and tell us whether the Greek people will make further sacrifices and how long this will be. Tell us. It's gonna be another three years? For another seven years? For another six years? When's all this coming to the end? How much longer does the Greek people have to put their backs on? The Greek people for the last five years have really been having very difficult times and would be understanding and would continue to support it if it saw that it has an impact. He will tell you the other "to make five years of patience and make two more, so that we can get out of the tunnel". But we don't see anything here. We see governments changing. The previous government said nothing. We had reached a record level. Seven to eight thousand Greek fellow citizens killed themselves. They keep killing themselves. They jump from balconies. They're hammering their brains in the air. No one's talking about them. We have now accepted that. There is, then, a part of the Greek society that we have accepted that it has been impoverished and we are not dealing with them and now we are going to do some other things. So let's see how much this mess goes, where our homeland is. For how long will the Greek people put back and with what commitments from you? Do you guarantee him something, or are we just trying, essentially, to take one dose behind the other and to extend three and four months? And in the process, will you say at some point that we're going to go for a referendum? You're gonna say we're going to an early election? And what about it? What's it gonna change? Did the others, who were forty years, still not? If you guys do this, say it's no longer going to the case, see what we're going to do. Let's all sit down and figure out a bit, because with the lies we're saying, there's nothing going to be. We have heard a few days ago - and this is probably how it will be and you will confirm it now - that they will get funding and some parties that have taken 1% -1.5% in the previous European elections. And between these, there's a particular party, I'll say. On Golden Dawn, we disagree all over this piece. There is no subsidy for the parties. Already on Golden Dawn, you've cut us off and we don't get a moment and you see we're doing very well. So let us do this, and you other people, and we can give this money to Greek workers, to public health and education. We should put the money there. Why are you taking them if they don't need to? Why do the parties every month get that much money? So we have learned that there are some parties that will still get a party subsidy, other than Golden Dawn, which is the third party and take nothing. Inside it, he says, includes the LAOS of George Karatzafiris. But, for George Karatzafiris, a few days before the elections took place, we had learned that he has offshore companies - I do not know whether it is true or not, but to see - and that there was money lost by armaments and "to be, the prosecutor comes" and "to put them in jail" and "to be searched". We didn't hear anything. It's been three months when you're government and the matter is gone. Karatzaferis comes out and talks from the TV station he's given, and life goes on. What's gonna happen? And he's also getting a subsidy? Will you give him money? But here the entire parliamentary group has been in prison, eighteen people, without having found a single euro illegal anywhere in our own bank accounts or, of course, in the party's accounts. Let's see where this thing goes! I say that's challenging. I'm just saying. I don't know if the man is guilty or innocent, but I'm saying what was heard. There were signs and monsters. If, then, there is no public intervention, if this thing is not solved, there will be not just shadows, but voices screaming for all of this. We also heard the coup d'état before the elections shouting that he's going to make Lagard lists, Nicolude, money missing lists, money lost lists. Where are these things? We can't hear you say it. Why don't you tell them? Why don't you bring it here, see who's got the money, who's gone the money, and who can we get it from and bring it back, who's illegal, who's legal? He asked a question a few days ago our competitor, Elias Cassidy, and the Minister directly replied that "we cannot deal with the Lagard list nor can we take it". Then what did you blame the previous ones for? But we have the right to blame the previous ones and you, because we see that you do nothing of what you say. Trying to throw some ashes in the eyes, I repeat get two hundred out of here, three hundred out of there. You do well to bring them back, but let's see how these people will live. Let us say another feature: it is not just the words and bills that we bring here, which will, anyway, be voted on. Because as good remarks as the anti-population parties have, no matter what they say, they won't pass. You have the majority, you will vote, you will pass, not just you, anyone in the government. That's the theater of irrationality that's playing here. But only with words and bills are we not making any difference. Five to ten days ago we were discussing the prison bill. We pointed out, we had told you before, that the way the Greek prisons operate will unfortunately be the case. There's a big prison problem. We have asked you since that foreigners who have committed crimes must be deported and are in Greek prisons to go home so that there can be different conditions of detention. You all know very well - and let us not admit it - that otherwise there are Greek prisoners. There will be a point of contact with both the penitentiary officials and various bodies that are there and we will find them, and there will be a solution. Here, with all this stuff going on, Albanians, Arabs versus Pakistanis, we're not going to get anywhere. We tell you and you will see that we will unfortunately be here again to discuss them. The same we fear will not make that bill either. We repeat that it is ashes in the eyes of the world and in one, one and a half months from now we will again discuss these problems which are supposed to be solved here today. We don't solve anything. However, I would also like to refer to the rapporteur in New Democracy, whom we have heard say some nice expressions. He was talking about state renegotiation, which is being carried out by the present coup d'état. Okay, I'm not going to argue that the current conflict might want to do that thing. But are they talking about decommissioning the public sector, who? Those who forty years had made the public sector a political and party army in our country? Those who to get in and work you should be either in the sector - when it was green - or in the local - when it was blue, or someone's friend? That's the only way you went in to work in the public sector in Greece. Didn't we know that? The New Democracy now comes to blame and condemn this fact that it is unacceptable and should not be the case. Let them go out to all those who had hired forty years irregular and illegal and talk about it again. We were told earlier that more than three thousand were controlled by the government in New Democracy. Did you check a minister, a MP? Any of them checked? Employees checked. If you controlled two Ministers, you'd find no more money than you found in these three thousand, but also dozens of irregularities and illegality above. Check them too, because we see that they are all in the unavoidable, not just those who are in the present or the previous House, but they are in the unavoidable and those who leave. They're coming in, they're doing their own parliament for a while and once they're out and they've done their scandals, the upcoming government doesn't touch them, it doesn't say anything, but we're blaming the next ones anymore. They forget the previous cases and the cases are gone, they're gone. So here you are, Minister, gentlemen of the conflict. Bring us those assumptions that the President of the Parliament has told us - and he knows so well, like other ministers and ministers within the government - that there are cases which had come and just before the elections, concerning certain ministers, specific Members of the New Democracy, cases of corruption of certain Members who took them, put them in their drawers, have disappeared. They were expecting that they would be able to get back to government if they were to steal the Greek people's vote and do it again. They didn't make it. You're here and we don't see anything. They're missing again, that's all. The rapporteur, too, spoke - and said so very well - about the presumption of innocence. What presumption of innocence? There's a presumption of innocence, he says, of civil servants and to see what's going on. Which civil servants? Yes, there is. Here, for the MPs, was there no presumption of innocence? This gentleman himself, in their own in here, clichétically abolished the presumption of innocence. Even now three of our competitors, three of our MPs, are in prison, are in custody. There's no presumption of innocence. Another fifteen are being persecuted, another three - four of us came out a few days ago. There, where was the presumption of innocence? But in the generalities and anointings we are good democrats. When things come up on us, it's hard to say what we're saying to do. I have also heard - and I am ending - the New Democracy's concern about violence. They said there's good and bad violence. Is the New Democracy going to talk about violence? New Democracy, in the ever since then ONNED, which had created fear and terror with its respective PASOK, KKE, who played wood in universities, on the streets that became a mess? Who had suffered some consequences there? So the New Democracy is coming to talk about whether violence is good or bad. We saw how they saw the violence. We have seen what they are interested in and what they are doing, depending on their interests. We also heard what a charming man said - seriously said, but laughing caused - that the right to health is a supreme good and should, he says, be higher than the strike. Okay, we agree. The rapporteur of the New Democracy must have gone to a public hospital for too long. Not the man has something to go, of course, don't take it that way, but go and see what's going on. Unfortunately, we witness dozens of, hundreds of incidents every day, every week, our simple Greek fellow citizens cannot go to a hospital. They have major health problems and they don't have the ability to get in, do an operation, do the tests they need to see what people have. Many, unfortunately, face irreparable health problems and no one solves them. So don’t talk to those who have ruled forty years and reached this mess in our homeland, about how health is in our homeland. They were forty years, they did so and they are accountable for their responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. The special speaker of the parliamentary group, Mr Panagiotis Karkassoulis, has the floor. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that the speakers list has been closed. The written speakers and speakers shall be seventy-eight. I suggest that the Vice-President who will succeed me in the Chair also speak tonight. You will, however, decide, as a plenary and tomorrow morning, to go directly to the speeches, so that we can move forward in the way we have been held and sometimes. Mr. Cartassouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have the first sample of the government's writing on public administration issues. A hundred days after their ascension to power, we have the first sample of writing. The bill that has come today and which we are discussing has been described by the Minister - and the committee has already referred to it by other speakers - as the 'first aid bill', namely that it comes to cure certain direct injustices, as it describes them, and that is where it actually ends its role. Although an effort has been made today and in committee to show that the bill contains reforms, which are important and important, it is clear that there is little to bring about. What we want to say from the outset is that this bill, despite the declarations, does not do one thing. What he does not do is that he does not propose reforms. In other words, we do not accept that a hundred days after taking up this ministry, but also the government as a whole, there is no reform plan. This is not a matter of time, ladies and gentlemen. This is about having the reforms, knowing the reforms, having a plan, believing in them and promoting them. I say this, with all my experience. I remember, for example, great Greek reform ministers. I'm going to report someone who's not alive, Sakis Peponnes for example. Sakis Peponnes did the ASAP. Within the first 12 months of taking up his duties he had already completed. In the first three months, there was already the first plan. And we're talking about reform, which faced the client state in his soul, in his heart. So that's not a matter of time. It is not a matter that 'I'll bring it later'. It's a question of whether I have or don't have a plan, whether I want or not I want the reforms. So the first thing we do is that this bill does not talk about reforms. But he's talking about something else. It speaks of injustices, which have occurred during the memorial period. That is, it restores or rather keeps the distinction between a memorial and an antimony. I think that this is consistent. In other words, it says that things that have been badly done during the memorial period must be restored. In the first place, we say that we agree, that is to say we agree to lifting the order as a means of combating strikes. The government's doing well and abolishes it. Of course, it was abused. Of course, there is an issue open, namely how to deal with similar phenomena that will lead to a crisis or to a possible crisis, how then it will be forced to reinstate this measure, but that is another story. However, first of all, as a means of dealing with strikes, it does well and withdraws it. I shall also refer to the issue of disciplinary boards, the presumption of innocence. These things had been discussed and when they started. Everyone knows that they eventually did not have a positive effect. They were basically used as a means of persecuting civil servants. That's true. On the other hand, as far as that is true, it is also true that there is no progress in the issues of Disciplinary Law. We have precisely the regime, which we had before the Manitakis regulations and everything, where there is essentially a disciplinary body which is for cases where, when we have a disciplinary offence, it will be dragged into this process for a year. There's nothing new there. What we want to say at the outset is that we should not have that today. If, for example, we are talking about disciplinary action, what we would expect would be an integrated human resources development plan. We would expect to see how we would motivate civil servants to move forward, how we would motivate them so that those who are better can distinguish themselves. And I do not say that in the sense of distinguishing elite and related. I say this in the sense of helping to make the public more productive, because this is the major issue that it is facing. That's why. In other words, we do not have any specific references to this legislation at the moment. In any case, however, some things need to be said. We must render Caesar Caesar Caesar's. The draft law that we are debating today is clearly better than that initially proposed. This means that the debate that took place in the committee was productive and the legislative improvements made it better. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] I repeat that what I would like to stay in the main part of my speech is the reforms. It says, for example, that a section needs to be made on structures. And instead of talking about "tampers", instead of talking about the major theme of structures and overlaps and fragmentary structures, what we find to regulate is the themes of the National Centre for Public Administration, that is, a few minor changes, which, although they are necessary, are far from dealing with the problem at its core. Of course, neither did the previous government manage to deal with this. There has been a great deal of fuss and debate on the so-called 'new organograms' and less than four months since half of them had been voted back to the prestige. So that's not how the changes are being made. That's all about the previous government. On the other hand, when will the current government deal with the essential issues relating to structures? I say one example only: rural development. For rural development in Greece, we have a piece of responsibility, which is handled by the relevant Ministry of Rural Development. However, we also have the Ministry of the Environment, which has two hundred and sixty-four registered powers, which also concern rural development. But we also have another Ministry, in this case the Ministry of Shipping, which has four hundred and six responsibilities relating to rural development. In addition, we have ninety-three decentralised agencies of the Ministry, which also deal with rural development issues. Furthermore, we have four hundred and fifty legal persons, today we are talking about, who also have individual responsibilities in relation to rural development. But we're going on. And the municipalities have a certain structure for rural development, and each region has five sections, five structures, which deal with rural development issues. The question, then, is this: if this is the major issue - which is why I have said this example - that we have too many responsibilities, scattered at various levels of governance, followed by various structures, whether central or regional, or the terrible scourge of legal persons, this great bucket when the government will catch it? It's our agony. When, then, are we going to have a material debate? We had also told the committee that at least - because this census was never exhaustive - a thousand legal entities of private law, which have parts to do with the public, as they of course have civil servants. For this whole big thing, all that labyrinth that his description is problematic, when will the government give us a sample of writing? Another example, again in the same logic, of simplifying procedures. The bill is mentioned - the Minister said that 'we are contributing to this process with this bill' - to simplify procedures which have to do with staff recruitment and certain provisions relating to electronic certificates. That's all. But is this the problem with simplifying procedures? And here I will not accept the same argument again that we are doing this now and tomorrow we will bring the other one, which is the right one. And I'll tell you why. Can we see an example? It's already May. Greece - everyone knows in this Chamber, as all the citizens know - is burning every year. What's left of it is burning. If we monitor the regulatory framework and the firefighting procedures, we will see that they are still data, which I will report to you. I only take one case, the so-called perimeter forests that need to be cleaned up. It's the dry pans around, where the fires usually catch. Who are currently in charge of cleaning up the perimeter forests? They're thirteen bodies. The municipality is responsible, unless the area is close to ancient, so the Archaeological Service is responsible. If the area is next to or near an aerospace corridor, the Civil Aviation Department is responsible. If there are train lines, the OSE is responsible. If PPC has PPC columns in the area, PPC has a responsibility. If he's near a camp, then he's taking over the Ministry of National Defence. If it is near national roads, then the Ministry of Transport is responsible. These are the things and the real situation that led to the great fires that we all lived in Elias and two and a half years after the fires cannot complete the file of destruction, that is to say, not know who was to blame for what happened. The question is this. How far are we from such a chance? What do we have to talk about then? To denounce the client state and the labyrinth and the related? Yes, but today you're government, and since you're government, you have to give answers to these things. And these are the major priorities that you need to face, gentlemen of the Coupling. The same applies to e-government. In other words, we have an attempt to deal with a matter which I would say is imminent. Is it correct, though, that the electronic record of the AACC is correct and that the issue of certificates, which stipulates an extension - although there is one issue here of how the own-initiative search can be implemented, which the government is generally in its proposal - but in any case, the country's e-government programme when you will bring it? In other words, in the previous programming period of 2007-2013, we have had a whole 3 billion-dollar story, where this money did not get a place. In any case, most of these projects were not carried out, some were subsequently given for social benefits - it is a sad story - we have lost the great opportunity of that seven-year period. And that's what happens to the previous coup d'état. For the period 2014-2020, what is your proposal, what do you have to suggest? We've already been a hundred days since you've taken over, but for the period 2014-2020, already in 2014, we're in mid-2015 and we haven't seen what the Electronic Governance Program is, what the big projects are. You come here and say that 'yes, there is a problem of interoperability and we cannot deal with it', as your rapporteur said. Right, but who will solve the problem of interoperability? You're the government, you have to deal with it. As far as the major issues are concerned, if, for example, I take the issue of targeting and productivity, to which I have already referred, there has been a law on targeting and measuring public performance for ten years. For ten years! This law and you only treat it marginally, that is to say, "Let there be a targeting" and you refer to it, in an issue that has the same character, namely the divestment of public cars. It is a serious issue for those who know from the public, but a glance on the big issue of broader targeting throughout the public sector and the issues of efficiency measurement, which are still unregulated, too. This famous link between results and budgets, for example, when will it come? The PASOK and New Democracy conflict has not dared to do so. They never dared to link the programmes budgets to various arguments at times and alibi. Will you do that? Are you going to tell us how these budgets will be linked, which the Ministries have specific objectives, which they must achieve, yes or no? If so, then you must tell us how and when you will. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm going to the major theme of the re-entry bill. I also mentioned at the beginning of my suggestion that you are right to restore people who have been fired and dismissed unjustly and, therefore, I would say, illegally. But what you don't tell us is: What will you do after taking them? To get them, you need to reconstitute the positions and branches - and do all this in the bill - and from there, what will these people do? Aren't we gonna count, we're never gonna evaluate anything and anyone? We simply take them back, and the answer will be: 'Will they do as others do'? But the problem of the staff in Greece is the exploitation of human resources. And the exploitation of human resources is the only means we have, in order to be able to push this huge machine and turn it into a barium, a protagonist of development. But you are not saying anything about it at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, I would like to say that we as a river have proposed an integrated reform programme, which is operational in principle, middle and end. We would like to see some of these proposals put forward by you too. However, so far, we have not seen you moving in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I have left the matter of the independent authorities last. Here, there is a deep contradiction between what you say and what you are doing. It says in Article 2 that 'the social participation of the independent authorities is widened' and I would say that no one would object to that. At the same time, however, we have Mr Spirtzi, who in a public statement just a few days ago, has removed the two Vice-Presidents and the Members of the plenary of the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, saying: 'The so-called Independent Authority', that is to say, the EMCDDA, one of the best principles we have and which we have and which are engaged in with remarkable scientists and has produced a serious task, 'can well be abolished', on one line. Finally, the Independent Authority! Obviously here, Minister, you are not in agreement or, in any case, I would tell you that you need to coordinate before we have the declarations of independence of the authorities. I'm just making another point. It has been mentioned by the rapporteur of the New Democracy before and it has fallen to our attention, and I suppose, Minister, you will clarify it: When you say about the age limit to which there is no disagreement, you obviously mean those who will henceforth serve the authorities. In other words, it is not for those who already have a mandate to end their terms of office. If this is the case, then you understand - I address you in your capacity as a constitutionalist and not just a minister - that it is a brutal and violent attack on the Constitution, because you cannot simply do so to an independent authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u156	Is that what this is about, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u157	You're not answering this now, Minister, so we can know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u158	All these pathologies mentioned earlier and announced by the bill that they will be dealt with, could be considered normal situations if we were to stick to the logic of the client state, which you like to denounce, gentlemen of the Couple. But the client state is misguided to say and say that it is related to the right and the traditional concept of coexistence, etc. It is associated with a major conception of state plundering by party armies. While the previous ones who have ruled, often promoted and strengthened this client state, I am very afraid that you too are doing so, and you follow the same practice and are also being taken for party secretary-general, you are being taken for the thirteen regional directors in education, you are being taken for the party managers of hospitals. That is why we, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, consider your co-reformist, not reformist, as you are doing, and we consider it dangerous for public administration too, because we do not promote the reforms that you need, and that should already be done, and that is what leads us to not be able to join you in this bill, although we wanted it, because we believe that public administration should be a national political and national matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Cartassouli. It is known in this House that the Ministers for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Economics and the Deputy Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs have tabled a draft law: "Emerging measures for Primary, Secondary and Higher Education". This draft law has been classified by the government as urgent. However, it will be discussed at three meetings instead of one in committee, following a recommendation from the Minister. The draft law was referred to the competent Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. The Legislation of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction entitled "Democratisation of the Administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions" has gathered the interest of many people in the public sector. Some people are here today and are anxiously watching our debate. They are the victims of memoranda and law enforcement. The many memos, requests, amendments, Mr Minister, show the great interest. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence maintains, does not abolish the Memorandums and Implementing Laws. A new memorandum will succeed the extension of the previous ones, with the agreement of 20 February, which you did not bring for discussion and vote in the House and which, as the First Vice-President of the House who knows more, contains burdensome commitments. That's what he mentioned this morning on a channel. The new agreement, as it may be called, intermediate or final, will be accompanied, as everything shows, by old and new anti-grassroots measures. The workers, the populace, must not waste any more time. They now need to organize their struggle to cover their losses, to claim their modern needs. The public workers' struggles, as we are discussing today in this draft law, were primarily demanding the abolition of the availability, redundancies, the work reserve and all other forms used against them in the Memorandums and Reactive Reforms, which are included in the implementing laws. The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL with this bill that the Deputy Minister called it "first aid", but also with its processes for broader reforms, as stated in his letter to the so-called social partners, aims to transform public administration into a lever for the reconstruction of the economy and support for entrepreneurship. I am tabling this document on the Minutes to confirm the truth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This bill, except for some of the injustices it corrects, continues to move in this line that the relevant Minister points out. It continues, in other words, to serve, with the regulations it provides, a more effective public administration for its entrepreneurship and objectives, objectives that are contrary to the concerns and the acute problems of the working class, the majority of our people. A public administration of a traveller, cut and sewn in the measures of the bourgeoisie that served and serves the profitability of capital, supported and supported its economic and political power, exploited and continues to exploit for the customer relations of the parties that managed its authority. The New Democracy and the PASOK, which have been in the government for many years, have been primarily responsible for the misfortune of today's public administration. They served, with a large number of authoritarianism, the subordination of workers, the aim of serving the needs of business groups. The essence of the problem with public administration lies in its direction, in the fact that it serves over time the strategic goals of the ruling class and not pluralism and social, popular rights. Workers in the public and private sectors, all the popular strata, have an interest and need in a state administration, whose main task is to serve a development to the benefit of the people and hence modern popular rights. A prerequisite for this is to condemn the parties of pluralism, the European Union, the unpopular restructuring and, of course, to change their hands and order. It is a prerequisite for the working people's power, based on the organised people, to be involved in decision-making, implementation and control of their implementation. Labour power will have as its basis the socialisation of the means of production, the central design which requires the abolition of capitalist exploitation and capitalist enterprises. The administrative mechanism will thus not operate capitalist interests as a criterion. It will remove the territory of employees' interlocutory in the state administration with the various business interests. State administration in the new authority will serve production with the aim of broadening the satisfaction of social needs. This bill, as we have said, is moving towards the necessary changes of the urban state in conditions of economic crisis and of strong capitalist competition. It moves within the framework of the new policy mix presented by the new convergence with extensive restructuring, in line with the decisions of the European Union, which will shape the friendly environment for investors, will contribute to greater competitiveness, namely their profitability. To inform those who see us and those who will read that the consultation had been given another draft law, which contained the collective agreements on employment in the public sector, which involved the conversion of workers with relationships of private law into permanent employment. They also went to the bells, such as the minimum wage of EUR 751, the reinstatement of collective labour contracts, stable work with rights, dutyfree at EUR 12 000, the abolition of HPAI, the third pension, the protection of the unemployed, and other expectations of a large proportion of our people living in the barbarity of the capitalist growth path, living in unemployment, poverty, and impoverishment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, among other things, puts the regulation of the draft law entitled 'Preservation of personal services - a ban on strikers' political return. The New Democracy, loyal to the capital it represents, reacts today and also to the committee, in whichever change takes place. It was the main issue she raised, along with hatred for the trade union movement, even for hers, her own party. That doesn't surprise us. It's clean, it's clear. There's no need to know who he's going to serve. But you, SYRIZA gentlemen, who are trying to step on two boats, are more dangerous, because you are sowing illusions to the people that capitalists can be humanized. What does your arrangement say that you're bringing today? It may - it says - be imposed exclusively on staffing etc. in the event of war or confiscation or to meet the needs of the country's defence or emergency social need caused by a natural disaster or a need that may jeopardise public health. We want to stress that all the decisions so far concerning the appointment or political recruitment of seafarers, workers at the Ottawas and others have been justified precisely by what your own regulation provides for, the current regulation, that is to say, the report at risk of public health. SYRIZA now, as a government, mature and adaptable, is changing attitudes towards political recruitment or affidavit and invoking the Constitution continues to provide for the use of the reactionary measure against workers' struggles. The class struggle cannot be stopped either by order or by retiring. She will continue under any circumstances. The labour movement requires the abolition of this reactive regulation, without any room for the anti-democratic measure. The JRC, in the past, had tabled a proposal for a law. We are returning with the amendment we tabled, with a general number of 65 and a special 13, which states: 'It is forbidden, firstly, to extend the political mandate or in any way ordering personal services, immovable property or mobile property, either before or after the strike has been declared, or any other mobilisation of the workers to defend, promote and claim their demands. Political confiscation or in any way ordering of personal services, immovable or mobile goods that have been declared and have not been revoked shall cease to apply.’ This is Article 2. These two articles we propose at one point in the bill. With this proposal - it leaves no room - the anti-democratic treatment of fighters. Ladies and gentlemen, in the number one request for the reinstatement of all the dismissals, all the rights available, with full employment and insurance, the new SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état responds negatively. Why? Firstly, it leaves out of the weakest workers, those who have been in contracts for several years, those who have had them hostages and have been exploited over time by all the governments, such as the three hundred cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, who have been working for over EUR 320 for over ten years with contracts that were renewed every month, such as three and a half thousand workers at the 'Help at home', who have been working with contracts continuously and unequivocally for about twelve years and are back on the verge of dismissal. The Minister's not listening, he's talking. Minister, thank you for your attention. It leaves it outside or, more rightly, continues to be in a hostage situation for those who work in the municipalities with the provisional tables of the AACC. Secondly, it leaves all those who have been working in the public sector for years, with positive judicial decisions, while at the same time maintaining the requirement for the continuation of legal proceedings. Customership for the law firm. The statement by the Deputy Minister of the Interior that the re-appointments of these contractors forbid us from the Constitution proves the lies of the promises made by SYRIZA for election, that only with governmental rotation and without break and overturn by the power of capitalists and the legislative framework, which shields their sovereignty, can solve the question of stable work. Four branches are largely reinstated by workers. That's good. But we want to point out that the government's intentions are not entirely clear. These branches that are being reconstituted are, first, the administrations of the HEIs. Secondly, they are the teachers for whom the regulation laid down in the bill is not complete, since it does not, at the same time, reconstitute the areas of education that have been abolished. Thirdly, they are school guards, without giving the possibility of voluntary return to those who have had to go to hospitals and make them at the 50 years of injuries or other specialities, which we have also told the committee. Fourthly, they are municipal policemen, without allowing voluntary return to those who were transferred by the previous government to Greek police, nor to those who had forced them to go to prisons and become penitentiaries or decentralised administrations. In municipalities, where municipal councils will not decide the re-establishment of municipal police, you will not let them incorporate the responsibilities associated with the city's proper functioning of their administrations and workers holding a municipal police position into these services. We also said at committee meetings that the workers should be reinstated voluntarily in the positions you want to reconstitute, with provision for the integration of these workers into the administrative services of the municipalities and not for them to be made available to the Minister of the Interior. The question we have asked the committees is whether there are staff requirements in the other Ministries and whether the relevant ministers have asked for the re-establishment of the positions. In the insurance funds, for example, the Minister responsible states that he has no staff and that is why pensions are being delayed. And not only, but you can see the "come see" in the insurance funds. The question arises, Minister, if you ask the provision in your bill of reinstatement of the dismissal of the dismissals and the available ones, which are well-qualified knowledge of the insurance, pension or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u161	He asked for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u162	He asked for it. The answer given by the Minister responsible to the workers is that he did so. Because you told the committee he did not ask for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u164	The amendment we have tabled, Minister, is a solution to this and answers the serious problems of the insurance funds, the insured and the pensioners. If you make it acceptable, this is very good and we can indeed have staff capable of insurers, who have knowledge and can really help. What else do we want to note? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like you to give me the time you have given the other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u165	Go on, Mr Kattotis, you have the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u166	We want to note that, in addition to the four branches you are giving the possibility of reintroducing workers with an application within ten days, the remaining available and made redundant workers will not return to their positions on the basis of the draft law. They will be re-entered when the mobility process is completed. That is where the government incorporates them, under the terms of the demands - the needs to be formulated by the institutions, their assessment by the three-member committee and the mobilisation to be given to them. To remind you that mobility, when SYRIZA was opposition, condemned it. Today, it seems, it is needed to serve the reorganisation of the public sector, also using the OECD's know-how, to be effective in relaunching the capitalist economy. According to the draft law, to complete mobility, it takes several months, perhaps five months, Minister. Tomorrow in the debate, I will give you characteristics - for people to listen to us too - how many days are envisaged for each stage. This, of course, will mean, in addition to all that, new wages and work experiences for all those who eventually join it. Legislative formalities leave a lot of workers outside. They leave, first of all, those who were forced, during availability, to plead resignation. It gives the opportunity to return, only to those who resigned when the final paintings had been taken. Secondly, those who applied for a pension but were not retired. They're outside. Thirdly, it leaves out those not included in the temporary or final disposal tables. Fourthly, it does not mention exactly what is going to happen with the hundreds of forty entrepreneurs from the UCLAF, the 'Memorandum of Assurance' and the IGM, for which we have tabled an amendment and we ask you to accept it. Fifthly, what will happen to the two hundred workers in the UCLAF who work with four-year contracts? Sixthly, what about the seventy-seven of the UCLAF who have won appeal decisions, Minister, for over a year and have not been implemented? They're court rulings. What's got to be done? Where should they go? Seventhly, it leaves to the unacceptable status of fourteenth employment the five hundred ninety-five cleaners of the Ministry of Finance despite the recent announcements and promises to the contrary, made by SYRIZA. The red cleaners' glove was used to enhance the philosophical profile of the SYRIZA party. The political choice made by the government is to re-appoint those who fit in the resolution adopted by the previous New Democracy - PASOK budget, those who fit in the 2015 recruitment schedules, netting out the available and made redundant with the planned fifteen thousand recruitments for 2015. He leaves out those who expected to be appointed to the public. It leaves out the huge gaps in qualified personnel in health and education. Prime Minister promised four and a half thousand and most will be assistant doctors. It leaves in force the prohibition of recruitment of OH and PH categories of staff and the 1/5 restriction on TM and IP categories. It could by an article, by a law, have already restored all the fired and the available ones. However, the SYRIZA - ANEL co-government operates in the sense of balanced budgets, with the continuation of arrogatory working relationships, support for the five-month, voucher, etc. You want, gentlemen, to ball the huge holes in health, social services and elsewhere that pay them with incredible suffering, time and money, the popular layers and which are a source of profit for business groups. The motto of labour movements was 'not all redundancies'. The workers were against all available resources, against the so-called'mobility', against the coercion and dismantling of public services. Minister, the government doesn't say a word about the losses of workers. We are talking about the lost salaries of the fired, the lost days of insurance, the lost stadiums and, of course, the salaries of the civil servants. Minister, the draft law adds the words 'in the context of the general planning of recruitment of staff of each year'. What does this mean about transferring payroll and insurance funds? Will you, for example, give the municipalities the money for school guards and municipal police or not? The constant request for a single employment relationship of public law is linked to mobility. The appointments of the successors of the ADP are only in the title, since you are actually talking about new notices without specifying when they will be made and there are thousands of gaps, as we have said, in health, education and elsewhere. In relation to the Disciplinary Law of Public Officials, specific provisions are removed which constituted requests - peaks of workers' struggles. The draft law restores the logic of the presumption of innocence and the participation of elected representatives of workers in disciplinary boards. But it leaves, Minister, intact the offences of the former disciplinary officer, such as refusal to recognise the constitution or unjustified, invaluable drafting of the assessment report or of an infringement of the obligation of confidentiality and others, and at the same time adds new ones, such as the non-service of the citizens and the untimely handling of their cases, in accordance with the existing provisions. The bill moves within the narrow margins of the memorandum. It moves along the line as far as possible, leaving intact the antique core that beats the rights to constant work of the workers. We are voting'representations' in principle for the reasons we have developed. We will come back to the debate on the articles and about forty amendments, which we would like to see from now, Minister, to know what you will be accepting to put forward and argue about what you will not be doing. The forty amendments confirm that many wrongdoers, victims of anti-popular policies, decisions by the European Union, of the so-called reforms, remain outside. We're being watched and their agony peaks. Finally, I will say a word about the independent authorities, a subject which has been particularly developed by New Democracy and Potami. There are no independent authorities. These authorities are moving within this policy and this capitalist development path, serving the needs of big capital, as they are every time reflected in the legislative framework that is being shaped here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The reason is the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, what is clear is that this bill is absolutely necessary. And it's absolutely necessary because she's coming to heal deep wounds left behind by the Memorandum Laugh. Some hear and say: "But, you insist on referring to this memorial throat", not realizing exactly the depth of the wounds, especially in the memorial of humanism, who left behind. It is true that the philosophy of previous years has been quite different. There was a project of numbers against the project of normal, human beings. Today, then, we are called upon to be able to rationalise public administration through this bill, but at the same time to humanise it. And combining these two programmes is really difficult and becoming even more difficult, as the grid of public administration is dashing. It is ideal for those who have lived it from within, for those who have lived it professionally, intertwined with it, for those who have lived it on the part of the citizen, for all of us, how much more so when you come to regulate it under the cover of humanism and rationalization. This is what this bill serves him very well. There's flaws. They couldn't have been there. Because this difficulty is so great and is becoming greater, precisely because in previous years a policy that took no account of the human factor had been abruptly implemented. It took into account the requirements of some centres from abroad, some of them from within, but not the democratic principles and humanism, which must serve as the basis of the Constitution every act of the Hellenic State and Republic. For this reason, when the interconnected centers of the interior and abroad set the geostrategic position and the mineral wealth of Greece, it was clear that they had to pierce the grid of the Greek economy - and this was relatively easy - based on the uncovered CDS. I have developed it on this subject to the Minister, Mr Varoufakis, on a timely basis. But on the other hand, they had to have an ally. They had to have an ally the incompleteness of a portion of the country's civilian personnel. It is precisely this reduced militarism that has put public administration away. Why? Because public administration was the only pillar of executive power - if we can call it that, which is - which could delay the implementation of the Memorandum Policy programmes in Greece. That is why one of the first victims of public administration was IGME. At this point, although I shall return, Minister, and in my articles on my position, I would like to pay particular attention to the EGM. I know you have it in your head. I am investing in the refugee treatment of public administration by you and your deep science to have a deal on this issue as well. Because you know very well why the IGM was hit. You know what was inside his duties and whether any of his assets were lost or not. We'll see about that then. For reasons of symbolism, this must be given special legislative protection. It is clear that the legislation in question, like the previous national government, has a serious and significant symbolism. The removal of the injustices of the past is one of them. The return of some, at least, to workers who lost their jobs in previous years is another case, to the extent of the economic potential. We would very much like to make up for all these injustices immediately. The people who are watching us every day perceive the differentiation of mentality, because the difference in sensitivity and effort is being done outside the walls. People see, for example, that the abolition of availability, the abolition of the order to the extent to which the Constitution allows it, is done. People see that citizens' rights under the Code of Administrative Procedure are extended to legal persons under private law, so that it does not appear that there is a one-sided strengthening of public administration. On the other hand, we have a strengthening of citizens' rights towards public administration. You see that the symbols and balances in this piece of legislation have been kept almost throughout its range. A serious issue for us Independent Greeks - but I imagine also for SYRIZA - is the question of personal data. The citizens' card, in so far as it serves to penetrate the information that exists in the public administration as well as in so far as it facilitates citizens from their suffering from civil servants and public administration in general, is entirely acceptable. However, I am lending the phrase of the Minister by a committee when I first put this issue to him that we will not let Greece take place on any pretext through any gleaning or identification system a "big brother". Therefore, clearly any identification system should not have - and the legislation clearly points out - neither a trace system nor biological data. That's what we're sitting on. The Minister rightly points out this with his legislation and I congratulate him on the step. It was also a project, people, as we pay particular attention to them, being detached from a customer hostage, a hostage of terror and fear, a hostage of "if you don't sit well, you'll be next and, therefore, confuse yourself with the executive power, collide with the robbery of some who want to influence executive power." "Don't delay the applications of the Memorandum Policy, you, who are a public official. You'll pay for it." Those were the messages they were giving. That's why it's got a special symbolism. Anyone who does not understand it in this Chamber understands it, those who have still voted outside the Chamber and will tell them if they ever find the courage to go to their side. They will be told: "Front the tons. There is no need for special resistance here." With various pretexts, some circles in the Chamber tried to hit the law by the Minister's face. In addition, I consider it meaningless, I believe that the arguments of very low quality were also of a very low political nature. I leave the legal arguments, which were virtually nonexistent. So the decapitation of those who served in the public sector through contracts of private law of indefinite duration was absolutely necessary, as was and should be the legislative provision for those people who served within the framework of the hostage of politics and party and clientele with other types of contracts that clearly, while respecting Article 103 of the Constitution, cannot at this time be treated as others. But somehow, Minister, I know that you have him in your political brain right now, we need to mobilize them, we need to have a legislative provision for them, so that we can show that it is not unstoppable and is not unreasonable for the state, especially when there is at this time in its administration a national government with other sensitivity and other pro grammes. I should like not to get tired of the fact that the fact that the legislative power operates properly and through the committees at this time also results from the fact that the legislation has been differentiated on key points, after having heard the institutions. And so it absorbed vibrations, and so it became better, and so the legislation became better, and it sparked even greater honour on the legislative initiative, but also on the government. The other things will be discussed in the debate on the articles, some improvements. In conclusion, I think that this procedure was really a moral lesson and a pillar, so that we can continue to listen to the institutions, because in fact, as the previous speaker has said, the hearing of more than thirty bodies shows the democracy and open walls that need to plummet the parliamentary legislative initiative and procedure and shows that this process itself improves. If you want, we can in this way cure more suffering left behind by the Memorandum Policy in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Mr. Andreas Loverdos, PASOK Special Speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a draft law entitled 'Democratisation of Administration' and some others. The democratisation of the administration, however, at the beginning of the slider, with a number of unconstitutionalities highlighted by the Department of Scientific Studies of the Parliament, as well as the conflict of interest on the face of the Deputy Minister for the Interior, cannot exist. Nice democratization! Well done! Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed the conflict of interest between the government's prior establishment of the Deputy Minister of Interior and the ministerial status, but not in general, but with the ministerial status of the Ministry of Interior. The decisions of the Ministry depend on the fate of his former customers, whether their issues are financial or employment relationships with the public or any other claims. In the Standing Committee on Internal Affairs, we have put forward, as a Parliamentary Group, the existence of this conflict of interest, which is provided for in Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Government, and which, even if it did not exist, would be indifferent, since this conflict of interest is enshrined in the general principles of public law and, above all, in the principle of non-discriminatory administration. The government did not accept it. That's why we left before Easter. We'll do the same tomorrow. If the government insists, we will leave after the debate is closed at the beginning. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to our arguments. Firstly, we obviously do not ask the government to stop legislating in the field of the Ministry of the Interior. We're not playing games. Precisely invoking conflicts of interest, the Government may also exercise its specific legislative initiative by taking the relevant initiative from the relevant Minister, the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Voutsis, who is here and at all the meetings of the committee. In fact, I say this in advance, ladies and gentlemen, in several provisions we are positive, for example, in Article 3 of the draft law on the presumption of innocence, the disciplinary procedure, which I propose, and in addition, for officials returning to service after the lifting of the temporary holiday, does not retain any remuneration, which has not already been retained. I would remind us of this intervention to those Members who were in the previous part-session, at the last plenary sitting, which I had attempted with the then Minister for Justice to bring an amendment to this House. There has been a refusal by an assembled minister and this attempt has not been made. I would like to say on this point that there is also a decision by the First Chamber of the Legal Council of the State, which, for any official who has not been detained or has not been put into effect, there can be no disciplinary sanctions, even temporary, such as the one on the temporary holiday. It's an adjustment to logic. It has pre-empted the Legal Council of the State and I consider the regulation to be a good thing in Article 3, as long as it is clear what cases are excluded. I would like to ask why I consider this to be of major importance and have taken a great deal of trouble in this respect: paedophilia is one of those cases where there is an exception, or is it not? Mr President, if you can, I would like to point out a response to this. We will be very fair in examining specific articles if we are given the opportunity to be in plenary and in the debate on the articles, and I and our parliamentary representative and the many colleagues who will speak. We have enough to talk about specific regulations of the draft law. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about corruption. We in the committee did not attack the Deputy Minister. In fact, my view is exactly the opposite. I know him very well. We don't raise these issues. We appreciate the face. I cannot, however, say that the Deputy Minister responds badly to the objections of conflicts of duty as if we were to raise corruption issues while we are not putting them on the table. It's not about money. He replied that 'I haven't even taken euros'. But we don't tell him that. We tell him that there is a conflict of interest, which is generally the case when a person has a serious private interest, which can affect his unbiased judgment when he carries out his duties, to the extent that he holds a public position. In the civilised countries - and our legal arsenal for this - conflict of interest is a general principle for the private sector too. It's not always about money. It can relate to a variety of other claims. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about conflicts of interest, we find a situation in which we are not charged. We have also pointed this out to the Standing Committee, and we are very much aware of this. I repeat, thirdly, that we do not claim that Mr Katrugalos cannot be Minister. We claim to have conflict problems in the Ministry of the Interior. I would also repeat, ladies and gentlemen, that if the government insists, we as PASOK will withdraw at the end of the debate at the outset. As a response to these very serious arguments, the government has all come to denounce us that we have done so on purpose in order to affect its prestige. It's an incredible but old method - not to remind the place of origin - to cover existential problems. "I don't care what you say, but I'll tell you why you say it. I'm not considering the essence of what you say, but I'm going to show you, telling you that you have alpha motives, beta, gamma, delta." We're not surprised by all this anymore. And on the most important issues in the country, our political assessment is that the government does not know exactly what to do, and many times it doesn't know what it says. Why not one speak, not the people in charge, but everyone speaks to everyone, saying their words and opposites. Fighting, ladies and gentlemen, for the fate of the country, we hear the members of the government say - even now - but one and the other, but in the morning and the other at night, but the Minister and other the Deputy Minister. It makes sense to think that, when we do well - and, of course, we are clear about the country's progress on its major issue, namely the agreement with the partners - lenders, then those members of the government will also be judged on issues of day-to-day management, that is to say, the many problems that the Greek people have and are related to the economic crisis, but not just on the one hand. The first samples of writing, ladies and gentlemen, are completely negative in the area of energy, education, immigration, justice, development and the economy. That is why in polls - and today there is another one - on all these issues you fall under the base. Today's poll is very characteristic. And it's not paradoxical, because it's original. All of your polls have on these big issues under the base. The percentages are 2.8% on developmental issues, 2.9% on entrepreneurship and overall on social security issues, which are the most popular ministers and Secretary-General on the channels every day and make benefits - television, of course! Will you agree on the minors, on the daily, on what we say'management issues', but where is people's lives? We'll see. For the time being, however, you do not seem to agree on the big, that is, the great, the major, that is to say, the question of obtaining financial resources to meet the needs of the country and of the citizens. None of us know what you're going to do, for the simple reason that you don't know what you're going to do. And another two days comes the alpha conclusion from your executives, another two days comes out exactly the opposite. You're supposed to be negotiating. And I say 'nevertheless', because you are simply gaining the time that Greece and the people are losing, to settle party problems, internal problems. Remember, you don't have an order to take the country to the rocks. Remember that other things you had told the Greek people before the elections: you didn't want the money for the projects, you had sources of funding, you cost your favourite programs. All this has been forgotten, but actions have also been taken, which by your own officials and the Prime Minister themselves have been recognised as mistakes, while most of the co-population colleagues, the media and the House, have been supporting them for weeks. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the famous decision of 20 February. But if, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you decide to take the country to the rocks, then instead of going to the channels to say what you say, you have to go to the President of the Republic. The Constitution regulates in a very specific way what happens when a government cannot do its job, cannot do what it wants, cannot govern and govern the country. There is not even a minute gap in the case that a government cannot make it. The statements made by the major ministers to deliver the spoon are not the statements made by the ministers carrying out their duties. They are declarations of ministers that push the ground, but not the ground for a "B" plan, not the ground for a drachma, which defends 40% of your party, but you should go to the President of the Republic to say that you cannot continue - if that is your choice, 'the country on the rocks'. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, has certain features - not too great, but features - examples of job failure. Let us just remember the Minister of Energy from this here that Stepma takes the floor for the act of legislation a few days ago and say that the SYRIZA's party as a opposition was reluctant to pay tribute to the comments of the Department of Scientific Studies. Do you remember that? I remember it very well. I heard him. I was in the Chamber, and I heard the tension with which this argument was written. Here, on Article 1 on the issues of the ban - almost a order - what does the Scientific Research Directorate say? He's got two very big problems. He's got more, but two are the basics: The conflict in Article 1 with Article 21(3) of the Constitution for the Protection of Public Health and the conflict in Article 1 of that draft law with Article 22(4) of the Constitution on exemptions from the prohibition of forced labour. What's going on here? In practice, if this is voted on, there is no case in marginal cases for anything to work in the public administration. They know that well, the most experienced. As they know well, however, there has been no misuse of the provisions allowing the qualification. It's happened several times, but not many times. This was not the case in a multitude. Here, now, the possibility of recourse to something that may also be useful is abolished. See the comments of the Scientific Service of the Parliament, keep the constitutional issue, but also keep it, ladies and gentlemen, and the operational issue, which will concern the Greek society as a whole and not its special appearances in alpha or beta workplace. You'll tear everything apart. This is a provision based on three months' experience. Doing good, however, indiscriminately, clienteles and rospherics and to everyone. Because it is another thing to abolish - quite rightly as they have pointed out - the injustice that exists in the position of everyone indiscriminately on temporary holidays - we agree with this - and, furthermore, to do what you do about the eruption of 'HUMAN'. Do you know how many times, Mr. Ministers of the current government have been confronted by the Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the subject of "DICAY" for delays in posting? Too many times. And finally, the logic prevailed. For an institution that was guaranteed in 2010 - we forged it - and executives of our own governments have publicly received very negative criticism, even for petty expenses, we insisted that it is good for the citizen to learn without delays - which create cracks in transparency - from the "DENMARK" the slightest expense of the state and obviously of his officials. What do you want with this ten-day thing? It exposes you this ten days. And there is already much more noise about this regulation than other, perhaps more important, negatively more important, which the draft law contains. It's another thing to make a proper adjustment, and throw out forty-four agencies involved in providing protection for children with disabilities. And you are being denounced today by the Federation of Children's Parents with Disabilities. As soon as December, Ministers, we voted for the regulation that we incorporated into this process of protecting these children, their parents and you get it back. Why are you doing this? In an amendment, you may not have noticed. The relevant ministers will be aware of this after they have accepted this amendment. Finally, it is another thing to make a correction of a mistake, and another to abolish the leadership of the independent authorities when it is in the process of developing its mandate. If we are not deceived - it is not just me who wonders, and even before I speak, I have been inquiring with colleagues and read the rules of Article 2 together - it seems that you are abolishing the term of office of the Heads of State or Government in Article 2. If you do not, and the regulation on the seventh third year is about the future, say it. However, you have been called by a colleague who spoke a moment ago by Mr Kartsoulis, but you did not. I do not know if you will make all your comments together, but that remains outstanding. And as long as it's still pending, it makes us suspicious that's what you mean. The wording of the provision in Article 2 thereof provides that the terms of office of Presidents of the independent authorities shall be interrupted. Finally, in this position at the outset, what about the handling of you in the Generation Solidarity Account for the years 2015 - from 1-1 to the end of 2018? This account, ladies and gentlemen, was created by the then Minister for Social Security, Fani Petralia. I, as Minister of Labour, had also expanded its resources and then the governments expanded the resources of this account. He had exploited his potential, as we discussed it in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, by ratifying the legislative act, and this amount had been invested in bonds. However, the investment was active for the insured of the next generations. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. This comes with a time-consuming amendment, which the government has obviously accepted. We shall be proposing to colleagues and colleagues in this House to see it. We would really be happy if it were not voted on. So, as it is clear, we are voting against this government's legislative initiative in principle. We reserve our sympathy for specific provisions, if the government respects what is very grieffully, seriously, without an insult to its members, who are honest people - and I have no objection to that - and, while respecting their moral integrity, we say that there is a real situation of conflict of interest and we are asking the Minister responsible to take the floor and not the Deputy Minister. If the government accepts this - so far it has refused - we will remain and testify to the individual provisions of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The cycle of special speakers was completed at this point. We will start with the speakers on the list. There is one proposal from the Bureau, and on the basis of the timetable set for today's sitting - of course we will have to go beyond that - for the first five speakers to speak - to be here - and even to Mr Kegeroglou, and tomorrow to begin with Mrs Rahil Makri, at 10 a.m., when the sitting begins. We are going to go beyond the timetable of the twelve and half that has been set. We'll go by one but maybe an hour. If the House agrees to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u172	So there is no objection. We're on. The first speaker, Mr Socrates Famelos, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, discussing the bill on the democratisation of public administration, on the modernisation of the public administration, too many issues can be found in the chapters that make it up. The issues of Disciplinary Law, the relationship between the public and the citizen, and the reopening of services that were useful to society, but also to the market, as are the issues of the National Centre for Public Administration, are part of this draft law. Evidently, the debate that can be held in a bill on public administration raises important questions, such as 'the public'. But along with this debate within the National Representation, I think it is worth saying that there is a need to solve problems directly in the functioning of the public sector, and this bill, unlike the previous speaker's position, does exactly what it does, solves day-to-day problems that can serve the citizen and create another citizen's relationship with the public. However, I will take the following question: is the most crucial issue today for the public and its functioning? Is this a crucial question for Greece? Is this a bill about the economy? Is it related to the private sector, to the market, to unemployment, to the Gross National Product? Because this is indeed the biggest problem in our country and because we have heard from the Qualified Opposition that we are dealing with the public sector and not with the private sector and we are putting these priorities in place. But are things like that? Ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly the opposite, because this bill is the first one that can do, it is to create an effective public relationship with the private sector, the citizen with the public and make the public more operational. But the criticism we are accepting, namely that we are dealing with the public and not with the private sector, hides another, different reality, a reality that has so far been defending a public who has been working against the state and citizens. Why if we try to compare words with reality and make a simple flash back, what will we recognise in the past of Greece, in the past of the post-multiple of the 40 years of PASOK and the New Democracy? What kind of public we've had so far? What public administration have you been running so far? A public party, a public counterproductive, a public one many times unsustainable. You know there's also evidence of all this. It's not just because someone from the Step of the House said it. In all the public sectors daily the citizen feels the long hand of the party state, the bipartisanism that dominated Greece of Postmopolitanism. At the same time he knows very well that we had a state that only operated towards a public-sector private entrepreneurship, which did not have innovation and did not serve the production of a national product in global competition. Did the public that we had so far served society? Was it serving the market, to the extent it needed for global competition? Has it restored Greece's position in Europe? Did he at least stabilise us in European competition? Unfortunately, no. And the history of our country, especially in the last five years, is that every piece of legislation has destroyed another piece of the public, it has brought down another piece of the operation of the country and, if you like, it has done so, it has not been able to compete and is forced to sell its silver so that it can be maintained. But why did all this happen? It is quite simple, ladies and gentlemen, because this political power had to be maintained somehow, because it did not have to be based on values, it did not have to be based on politics. It had to be maintained in relations with dependency, which were not only within the public authorities, to appoint our own children and our own trade unions, without worthy of it, in the positions of heads of government, and to be too many of these good children in positions of central administration. At the same time, we also had to create this relationship with the citizen, that the citizen should know that only if you go to the partylor or to the MP, you will solve your problems and not that you have an honest, honest state, which is obliged to serve him at any time. However, from the point of view of having created a negative state for the country until we claim that it was working better than it is today, I think we are abstaining from paradoxes. I would like to submit to the meeting - because some accusations were heard about the National Public Administration Centre - the perfect presidential selection procedure that you followed. The perfect procedure followed, ladies and gentlemen, was a procedure opened on 11 April 2014. That's the call. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned statement, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] While it was completed on April 30, 2014, on May 28, 2014 there was a new notice, with less quality characteristics for the President's position, without selection criteria - everything was left to the Minister - which had retroactive effect and did not remove the applications that had already been submitted. This is the perfect procedure you have had so far at the National Public Administration Centre. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u174	And the present is good, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u175	So as far as the current president is concerned, I think that, if anyone knows how to read the academic map, he should say quite simply: we have a public law professor, who is president of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki in Public Law, is eleven years in the legal committee of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, he has all the legal issues of the university and at the same time is also in the Revision Committee of the Constitution of the Association of Thessaloniki and is a teacher in three international universities - both in Montpellier and in Paris and in Messina - and a teacher in the postgraduate in Paris. This professor of Public Law is therefore invited to compare himself with a technical teacher of the TEI. Thank you very much. I don't think we need any comment. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u176	Constitutional law. Read the curriculum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u177	However, ladies and gentlemen, the question of what we wanted to do with what we wanted to do with the public, because quite simply the public we wanted to dismantle and dismantle, was the public of ERT, which we wanted to close, so that we could give the frequency to the canalarchs. In fact, we should also give the frequencies to a digital provider who, when he does not do his work and is criticised by the national authority, who does not control it adequately and does not have the substitute functions for the public frequency area, you are in trouble that legislation must comply with. And you are criticising us, because we ask the national authority to monitor the digital platform effectively. However, for us, ladies and gentlemen, we want the public to be a steam engine in the country, a catalyst of the development and accelerator of innovation, to be operational, efficient and cost-effective, and to be a proxy of the public interest and a guarantor of the rights of citizens, but also a guarantor of the equivalence and competition and economic operators of the market. Because we just respect public money. Because we are practically representing the people who give this public money so that the state can function. An honest and fair state is for everyone and leaves no one out. Of course, an honest and fair state, an honest public administration has an evaluation of employees, has an assessment of structures, it has no fear of employees, but it has a thirst for discrimination. It has a description of the structures and jobs and has an assessment of the feasibility of the structures, because in many cases resources were wasted on agencies that were not necessary. This government represents the merits of this government, because it represents and serves the interests of many. For us, there is no conflict of interest in the position of the rapporteur, because both the government and Parliament represent the same interest, the interests of all citizens and are constantly represented in time, consistently. So there is no conflict of interest, but there is consistency in the public interest. That is what this bill is trying to do, and that is why, in principle, I think we should also call on the other parties to support their positive functions, because the citizen has nothing to fear from a strong, functional and qualitative state. That is what we are seeking and that is what we are creating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Femello. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u179	Listening so long as the previous speaker, I can paraphrase a well-known expression of Tallirand, which says that your words are used to hide your thoughts. Because your thoughts are not at all in this direction. After the incomprehensible presence here today of the minister of 12% who had a professional career, and today he comes to satisfy those in his clientele a while ago, we heard clams against the party state, customer relations and a repetition of all these election commitments, which, in a phrase, the Prime Minister has said - on the eve of the elections, three days before the elections - that the legacy left in the post-population and the bi-grouping of this period is known to everyone. The party state, anxiety, nepotism, political choices without quarrel dominated Greece. This is all over. Is it over? Is this over? First time left, do you end when within ninety days have you made a vacancy of relatives and friends, of "masters" and of people who served in other parties and on the eve of the elections to assist you? It'll be the first time I've ever done it. I will have to read from the Step of the House, because there are so many names and positions that show exactly the range of your family and party appointments, which have one single goal: to make a new party state. I'm on my way. General Secretary of Economic Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was appointed the first cousin of Prime Minister George Tsipras, son of his father, and author of the newspaper "AGEI". The Deputy Minister of Tourism has placed a Special Adviser on political issues, Nikos Kounturas' brother, who has taken over her relationship with the media. Another married couple, in addition to the well-known ministerial Dritsa - Christodoulopoulos, is founded in the government, as a Minister of Transparency at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Papaioannou, whose wife, Mrs Papandalates, is a special associate of the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Culture has appointed his brother, Rena Durou, Mr Panagiotis Duros. The partner of the district council, Mrs Douros, Yiannis Bennisis, has a role of coordinator in the Attica Region. Minister Katrugalos placed himself at the National Centre for Public Administration, which is so much to speak about, and so much has been heard, not only a party official, but also a partner of the Minister for Justice, Mrs Kamtsidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u180	Lawful wife!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u181	Wife? Wife! Moreover, the Director of the Diplomatic Office of Prime Minister Evangelos Kalpadakis is a nephew of the wife of the Minister of Interior, Mr. Voutsi, and his brother is in charge of Mr. Drasakis' office. Theodore Mitrakos, Deputy Governor of the Bank of Greece, is a fiancée of the daughter of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Of course, Mrs Petrouula Sartzetakis, daughter of the former President of the Republic, is for supplies in the health sector and, of course, Mrs Chryssovelonis, appointed her daughter and her secretary at the office of Mr Kammenos. But these are family ruffles. Because a lot are the party ruffles. Mr Romanos, a member of the ANELs, is the Secretary-General. I told you that Mr Papaioannou, who is a SYRIZA official, was placed President of the National Commission for Human Rights. Minister General at the Ministry of Economy, Mr Manousakis, former Director of Mr Stathakis, took over. General Secretary of Trade and Consumer Protection was posted by Mr. Papaderakis, former Legal Adviser with SYRIZA in Chania. Of course, Mr. Vernardakis, the Secretary-General for the Coordination of Government's Work, took over by Mr. Tsipras while he was in the Opposition. Mr. Kokkinakis - since you have nothing to do with PASOK and the old Transmigration - has become the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health. A corresponding position is claimed by Buddour, coming from PASOK, for EOPY. Mr. Nefeloudis, a left-wing official, was appointed Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour. Secretary-General of the Government Vice-President is taken over by Mr Liakos, who was one of the authors of the SYRIZA programme. Mr Kourakis appointed the Deputy Secretary-General, because we also created Deputy Secretary-General, we were not reached by the Secretary-General - the Director-General of his Office, Mr Pillalis. Mr Varoufakis chose from PASOK and from the close environment of Mr Papandreou Ms Panaritis, former Minister of State. Deputy Head of the 2nd Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ms. Tsaparikos, member of the SYRIZA socialist tendency. Mr Giannopoulos, President of the Association of Hospital Doctors of Achaia and a member of the Central Committee of SYRIZA, has been placed as Commander of the 6th Ministry of Health. Mr. Capotas, President of the employees of the insurance funds and a member of the socialist trend of the SYRIZA, was appointed President of the Single Assistance Insurance Fund. Mrs Koutsouri, also your member, took over the Secretary-General of Welfare at the Ministry of Labour. Mrs Halki, one of the thirty members of DMAR who had refused to leave the state mechanism, was now appointed Secretary General of Social Resources of the Ministry of Labour. Of course, your friend, Mr Tsukalas, former Member of Parliament, was appointed Deputy Secretary-General of Administrative Reform, with trade union experience in the private sector, nothing to do with the public sector, but no matter what. The former MP and eminent executive of the Independent Greeks, Mr. Giannelis, became Secretary General of the Aegean Ministry. Mr Dedes, candidate for the Peloponnese Region, supported by SYRIZA, was taken over by Secretary-General of Infrastructure. Secretary-General of the Ministry of Public Order was posted by Mr. Anagnostakis, former member of DIMAR and member of parliament. General Secretary at the Ministry of Interior was posted by Mr Poulakis, a candidate for SYRIZA. Mr Mavropoulos, a candidate for SYRIZA, took office in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. Mr. Carvounis was placed Director on the 2nd D.C....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Varvichiotis, shorten up, please. You've already exceeded eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u183	It's a long list, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u184	Mr President, the list is too long and I want time to read it, people to listen to it. Because the party state is being abolished today! Today the party state is being abolished! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today you're feeding people lies. Aren't you ashamed? It is such a mania for authority that it is such that you make a new regime that, after you have taken the photographic notice of the ERT, after you have told us that you will abolish the party ERT or NERIT, you will come and put a proclamation to the Day on end this morning to bring the official body of "syrrist", "HOTDOC", tell us that the drafting director of the "HOTDOC" will take over. You bring your party mouthphone to public TV, along with all the others, for whom the press release will come out, so that exactly the party rule you're trying to impose within a hundred days is shown. All of this shows exactly that your words do not match your thoughts and certainly not your actions. Because, if you wanted to be something new at the place, you would behave with new logic and not with the logic of abolishing the "GENERAL" because I do not like to see the journeys of the President of the Parliament abroad, accompanied by a multitude of delegations, not because I do not like to see the costs that we pay for the eternal tours of Mr Varoufakis around the planet, with the aim of his own personal promotion, but because you really feel that the state corvana and the state, which you have won with lies, belong to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Varvichiotis, you've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u186	Unfortunately, the moment of the denial will come and it will be very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u187	Mrs Severoni-Hondonassiou has the floor on behalf of the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, a society that has undergone a change of democracy in a client state is difficult, if not impossible, to ever get rid of this mutation on democratic terms, because democratic conditions have now been paralysed or even corrupted, so as to exclude the functioning of democracy. The client state has ensured that it is perpetrated undisturbed. The power, ladies and gentlemen, is crushing anyone who resists and disgusts partners in arbitrary action. What has been heard here today, that the current government will hit the clientele, the party state, is not heard for the first time. In 2004, the then Prime Minister of Greece, with three arrows, had found this exactly, that is to say, 'zero tolerance','re-establishment of the state' and 'outside the pimps'. And what has then been achieved by the Greek Prime Minister? He messed with the pimps? Did he do anything? Did he re-establish the state? He then spoke of 'zero tolerance'. Finally, nothing has been achieved at all, and that is why the possibility is being given, Minister, and you now say exactly that there is this deep client state. Can you mess with him? I believe that, if there's a will, you can put it on. But it is very difficult, because that is where you want to have determination and, in fact, I will borrow a phrase from the Prime Minister at the time - it wants zero tolerance. He wants zero tolerance in all directions. There's no one here that's mine and yours. We weren't partners once. If we really want this place to be re-established, if we really want to bring what we are all waiting for, that is, iso-politicalism and democracy, we must be vague in all directions, whether the direction is left either right or right-wing. What the people didn't understand... [[Noise in the Chamber from the ward of PASOK]] Mr President, there is a lot of noise. I would ask you very much to help me. There are very few of the Members who are in it. But, teacher, at least...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u189	You're right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u190	Carry on, Mrs. Sverni.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u191	You saw! It's bad for you to have a few minutes, and to cut off your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u192	There will be tolerance, Mrs. Sveroni. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. The title of this bill is: "Democratisation of Administration...". Isn't it tragic after so many years of post-democratic democracy that we sit here talking today, in 2015, about the democratisation of the administration? Does this provide honor to any of us, after so many years of democracy, to talk about democracy again? I feel that, for whatever we want to do, we are very easily using such heavy phrases, simple and at the same time heaviest, such as democracy, which, in the end, everyone has used in their own thinking and beliefs. What the Greek people did not understand, however, is that the Constitution, in addition to the obligations stated by each Greek citizen, also has rights. One of its greatest rights, in Article 22, is the right to work. The Greek citizen did not understand that. You didn't leave him. You who have ruled for so many years have not let him understand, because you have sold him positions for a reward. And the reward you know what it was? It was the vote and the tolerance and the party army you made, both of them and of the ANELs, which is no one here. The Greek citizen thought he should have been in debt with you, as if you were the one who appointed him at your father's factory. That's what you've been using all these years. And now, are you coming and talking to us and telling today's government of decency? Well, at least you shouldn't be talking. Because you have done absolutely nothing so that you can at least have one reason to criticise. And if you want to criticise the current government, you could first make your own self-criticism. Only then could we say, yes, every man has a right to mistakes, and he has a right to repentance. So we could all accept it. Not so, however, just shouting and saying, "You have appointed alpha, beta, gamma, delta". I want to show you, in the end, and without many words and no other arguments, a real fact. Forty-five years ago, in the expiry of the dictatorship and just before democracy was restored in our homeland - although I was little, I am, of course, great now - a man, my relative, a graduate in elementary school, received a call to go to rural prisons. Because and then there was the means, as throughout Greece, in the junta, in democracy, there has always been the means. Do you know what he said? He replied: "Hey, I will not go to be a civil servant, to take three and sixty, when I can go to White Houses, to Boeotia, to work and take multiples of money." Why? Because there was supply and demand and he was able to choose where he was going. Since the Migration, however, it began to shrink very much what is called the private sector and began to grow this great monster called the public sector. That was what was working for everyone, and most importantly it was for you who ruled this country. You wanted to have them tied up, you wanted to have them soldiers near you, to be able to do nothing without you. And you have reached the Greek people to be something like a mob, to be cowered, dependent on you, while, otherwise, he is the "master" Greek people. Because you were appointing him, against what remuneration we said, and he should always be obliged to you. Apart from the public sector, it is assumed, in this liberal state, that there should also be the other market, the private market. But what did you do? You have raised the public sector, you have completely blown the other market, so that today we have one and a half million private sector unemployed. And they, you know, as much as they cry, factories can't open any business. They're gone, they're done, they're gone. The only people who can cry now and beg for a place in this sun are the civil servants. We don't know, of course, how they've been appointed. Evaluation never took place. Because, as we speak, Minister, for a party state, we should not overlook the fact that, since there was the party rule in Greece, too many of these already existing civil servants do not know whether or not they were qualified to be appointed. He's stubborn of this party state too. This, of course, does not mean that tomorrow they should stay on the road. This does not mean that people should not have a job. I believe, however, that today - apart from the charitable feelings you have, Minister, which I do not doubt - is a communication trick on the one hand, to say 'we will restore injustices'. We believe that they should be restored, because we said that work is a constitutionally guaranteed right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u194	Mrs. Sveroni, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u195	That is all I say, Mr President, thank you very much. But, on the other hand, we shouldn't look at the other one and a half million unemployed, who know what they're feeling? They also feel fools along with others because they did not go to worship a politician to settle in a position, and at the moment it is not for the outside either to go for the interior. Right now they are starving and they expect that the god of Greece who always saves her will put his hand on it and something will happen. Minister, I would like to believe that what you are saying is going to do. And you will only act if you want to come to a break. Otherwise, it can't be. We cannot change a regime which has been in existence for forty years only through soft democratic procedures. Procedures may be democratic, but they must also be tough at the same time, so that we can change this place and this mentality here again at such a time that the citizen has confidence in the state. Because, Minister, the Pristines and Cyclops, as we have said, do not meet them if we do not carry them. And the ones who carry them primarily are the ones who rule. Those who rule have the Priests and the Cyclops and wherever they take them have them. The people see them and fear them, together with them, and they pass them for the same dragons, along with the Lastyrgens and the Cyclops. Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u196	Fourth speaker in the order should be Mrs Lyberakis. Because of an emergency, he won't talk. Mr Kegeroglu will take the floor, and then Mrs Rachel Macrey will take the floor. Mr. Kegeroglu, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. I'll stay here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u198	You want to talk from there? Wait a minute, I'm not counting time, but I'd like to clarify two things. Fifth speaker, as we agreed, she will be Mrs McCree. One point was raised in the Bureau, and I would ask you to tell me if you agree to allow another speaker, namely Mrs Aylonitos, to speak. As you can see in the list of speakers, it is eighth, but, because it is a member of a committee, and tomorrow morning he must attend, he asked the Bureau to give her the floor as the last speaker for tonight. Does the House agree? If you agree, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u199	Let him speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u200	However, there are other committees tomorrow, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u201	Okay. I put it in the House. It was a request from a Member of Parliament. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a thousand four hundred disabled children, supported by forty-four non-profit structures, with the general number 109 and a specific number of 50, are out of programme. If it's unconscious, see now to correct it. If it is a political decision, to continue the programme only for the structures of the municipalities, I tell you that for children with disabilities in municipal structures there are only two programmes throughout Greece. The remaining forty-two projects are non-profit-making entities. You may not have seen it. You may not have been left behind by the reaction of the operators themselves on this very important issue. In December, Article 44 was passed at L.4312 - I had the honour of being a State Secretary of State - which provided for the extension of all programmes without separation, i.e. whether it makes them a municipality, whether it makes them a region or a non-profit organisation. Unfortunately, this injustice comes with your amendment. Do you intend to correct it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u204	Thanks for the response. This is a very important issue, Mr President, and I believe that tomorrow there will be an amendment of this provision, which also concerns the budget, but above all the programme implemented by the EBRD, a company of self-government, together with non-profit-making bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed interesting to quote the information from Mr Varvitsiotis. I watched her very interestingly. I still have many other names to add. But what reminded me of the fact that he appointed the cousin, brother-in-law, the minister's wife, his son-in-law Mr. Kritsis, or all the other relationships that he very much revealed to us? What did it remind me of? He reminded me of the practice that was followed for years by his resignation. What is ambiguous today in the government that wants to be called the "first time left" is that it replicates exactly the old-fashioned method of New Democracy and even in its worst times. That's it. Unfortunately, when he was awarded 12% and the others, he said 'but the President of the Republic, when he was a competent minister, did the same'. Understood? When the ASEAN, when the late Sakis Peponis, when PASOK put the issue of sovereignty as an essential prerequisite for the expansion of public service, I do not say, many followed, but with a lot of displeasure, because the margins - no longer have been fixed - for customer relations. Don't tell me that the line of all power was not some so-called left. If you want me to name them. Not all the Left to God. Some of the so-called left. Do not tell me that these methods, Mr Varvitsiotis, adopted today by the Government, were not the "good news" of the New Democracy and the Right for decades in our country. Responsibility needs courage and courage is lacking by the government today. Religion, democracy wants transparency, and PASOK has strongly strengthened transparency, introducing "DENGY" everywhere. DENMARK is not an end in itself, it is a means of strengthening, giving 'oxy' to democracy. No hiding place under the sun. Even the cost of a euro should be published, EUR 0,1, without euros. Any decision must be published immediately, that there should be control by the citizen itself and not just by the parties. It is exaggerated, if you like, that the institution of transparency and gives the citizen himself the right to seek, seek, judge and denounce where he finds that something is wrong. What has led you to keep the “GENERAL”? You do not abolish it, but you keep it. What is this argument that prevailed over the concept of transparency and the need today, which is all over the political system and the political forces? Do not tell me that you are not listening to 'you too have proved yourself'. Don't you hear it yet? If you haven't heard it yet, she's going to say you have proud ears. What does that mean? That the samples are not such that they remove all these doubts and all that have been found in the world and are related to the questioning of the political system, the political forces, the sincerity of the so-called. So we also need to monitor operations and transparency is everything. I think the big mistake in reducing the budget for new recruitment should be taken back by the government. Fifteen thousand new recruitments may not be provided and this figure may be reduced by at least one third. The restoration of the injustices, Minister, of any injustices and of any number, must be in addition, cannot be at the expense of young people. From where and from where to where, while on other points you say 'is the budget passed and we cannot change it' here you change it? What right? That is a great argument, all the ministers are using it, that is, it is a budget that we have received, we have not created it. That's what you're saying. But here, why don't you hire young people? We would have no objections, and we have no objection to any restoration of injustice. Christos Katsotis referred to the issue of HEME, which we had fought for. It's got to be done right away. Why? Because they don't have a contract with a lawyer? I think people are struggling alone and they've succeeded in court. They don't need anything else anymore. Shouldn't we see the matter of ELGA? It's a big deal. Should we not look at issues that have to do with various cases, which may not be in your understanding? In fact and frankly, without a point of order, you professionally dealt with certain categories and you know them well, in that sense I say it. And because you know them well, you joined them. But the others, who don't know them, doesn't mean they shouldn't join. So, does a minister have to come in every time to deal with certain matters in order to restore injustices? For God's sake! That is why there are twenty-five amendments from your resignation. The bill is not well-processed. That's why there are - how many, Christo, fifteen? - Amendments by the Communist Party. That is why there are nine ministerial amendments. I think he needed more work, more serious in this matter. I would also like to say, Mr Minister, that, despite the fact that you have said a lot of things from the 1998 competition to the rest of the opening competitions. I would also like to tell you about 'Help at Home', which has been quite rightly mentioned. When the second conference was held some time ago, in October, Mr. Militaryis had come and said "monitoring". I say ensuring stable and permanent work and, in any case, taking into account the particular circumstances of safety. ‘Solidarisation’. Where's her? Why didn't you bring her? It would be an act that would have to do with the social sector. There is the question of the workers of the insurance funds. It has been quite rightly pointed out by colleagues that the service, the issue of pensions is in many insurance funds, and that is something you should see immediately. I don't know if the Department has discussed a number. I think that the six hundred who had been certified as the first necessary support for the insurance funds should be examined. All this can be done in the context of merit, with an assessment, all this can come from a modern institutional framework as a restoration of injustices. But to God, don't talk about restoring injustice for the one who falls - I don't know how to characterize it - in paedophilia, Professor. Should it not be excluded from staying, should it not leave immediately? Look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete. You've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President. I got carried away from the previous ones. You're right. That's why I won't answer for a second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u207	Mrs. Rachel Makri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. The bill under discussion is the first step towards restoring the meaningless and unfair arrangements introduced by the Memorandum Governments. The provisions that affected the functioning of public administration in fact did not target employees, but the daily lives of the citizens and were aimed at implementing the neoliberal obsession for a lesser state, regardless of the honour of society. The present Government is invited to deal with a large number of incomplete provisions of the PASOK and New Democracy Governments within a very short time-frame. In this work we must be associated and help all those who really fight to defend the public interest. That is why I co-signed the amendment by Mr. Nasos Athanasiou, Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis, Mr. Ioannis Michelogannakis, Mr. Panagoulis and Mr. Ioannis Statsas, Mr. Nasos Athanasios, Mr. Triantafyllos Mitafidis, Mr. Ioannis Michelogannakis, Mr. Panagoulis and Mr. Ioannis Stathas, with a general number 61 and a special 10 of 23 April 2015 on the subject: ‘Reinstate specialised personnel to ensure safety’. This proposed provision seeks to ensure safety and is ensured by the immediate recovery of staff with proven work experience and specific technical knowledge of flight control and training of the relevant control mechanisms. The fact is that in December 2000, following an inspection by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the necessary checks were not carried out effectively. The result was the deterioration of the Greek agency by Federal Aviation Administration in category 2, namely to classify Greece among countries that do not comply with the International Civil Aviation Organisation's safety standards. The country reintroduced Category 1 only after the provision of assurances that this malfunction in relation to safety inspectors would be resolved. According to published press reports, which no one disputes, five years later, in April 2005, the Court of Auditors found a number of infringements and unlawful actions in the service, even requiring a certain number of aircraft inspectors to return to the State money they received as remuneration. The Court of Auditors' decision, together with new audits, opened the way for the adoption of a Presidential Decree providing for changes for safety inspectors. In its assessment, a significant number of inspectors were found to be inappropriate as they did not fulfil all the conditions of the international community. In particular, they had not completed, as provided for in the legislative text, five-year work in a maintenance workshop environment. This requirement, in conjunction with the particularly demanding framework, makes safety inspectors particularly rare due to the limited number of those meeting the strict international requirements. Our country, with the option of dismantling the state air carrier of Olympics and the effective establishment of a private monopoly by Mr. Vassilakis, had the opportunity to use people with many years of experience in aircraft maintenance and repair, as well as pilots with many hours of flights. The question is whether he took advantage of them. No, it's the answer. He fired them. On 23-10-2013, with regard to the inclusion into the availability of the two hundred nine employees, reference is made to a proposal for reorganisation - an evaluation report number 799, which justifies the removal of the employees of the service based on the decision No 5/2011 of the five-member PSC Staff Board. In this decision, however, it is quite the opposite that all engineers are necessary and must remain in the service. For these reasons and as international safety experience demonstrates that there is no room for stunts and experiments, we ask the relevant ministers to accept Amendment 61/10 from 23-4-2015, in practice demonstrating their safety and effective safeguarding of flights to the Greek airspace and our compliance with international safety requirements. Another issue we have to resolve is the local police officers who have been transferred to penitentiary institutions. Minister, these people, without any substantial education, are being called upon to face very difficult and dangerous conditions for their lives and physical integrity. The seriousness of the training required and the danger of the work of the penitentiary official demonstrate the recent incidents of the Korydallos prisons, where two prisoners died and dozens were injured. There are cases, Minister, where women who were hired to the Municipal Police were called one day to write calls to the Municipal Police and the Municipalities and the next day to be in male prisons. There are people who have accepted this movement of violence, under the threat of unemployment, and now face very serious psychological problems, as the only training they have received was the encouragement to learn from older people. I receive daily calls for help from dozens of people who have been forced to perform a function which they have not chosen and you know very well what this means to the performance of officials. These people, of course, accept not to move directly, as they recognize the needs of penitentiary institutions. I therefore believe that the penitentiary institutions can be served by penitentiaries who - in such a way that they are not so worthy - secondment, new recruits only for this function and free those of the former municipal policemen who want it, in order to return to their service of origin, in this year of course. The state must correct the mistakes of the past for the benefit of its citizens. These citizens are watching us right now and waiting for your commitment. This bill takes the first steps, but it is a lot more to be done and it needs to be done immediately, because society cannot afford to perpetuate the sins of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. The last speaker for today has the floor, Mrs Eleni Aylonitou, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank colleagues for their patience. Ladies and gentlemen, it is understandable that, when the government changes after elections, there will be a change of policy on certain issues. Once the electorate has a radical turn in its choices, a policy change will be extensive and radical. In a state of peace and democratic political normality, however, it is quite unusual that a government should be forced to carry a bill signed "Restoration of injustices". Today, however, we are discussing the bill: 'Democratisation of the administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Rehabilitation of injustices and other provisions'. Are we talking about removing the consequences of the memorandums? Only in part. We are, above all, talking about the removal of the injustices committed consciously and intentionally by some party parties of previous coexistence, on the pretext and on the basis of the implementation of the memorandums. For, beyond all the other suffering the memorials brought to our country, they gave some and the impression that now that we have found a priest we can bury five - six. Thus, on the pretext of reducing the number of civil servants, the presumption of innocence was abolished, in order to put themselves on a fair holiday with the arbitrary designation of ‘judgment’, those officials who are not at that time pleaded to jury ministers and party subordinates. Today we are in the need to restore these injustices, as the country is coming out of a period of political anomaly. We all understand that, when you hear at the cafeteria, someone tells you that if he was a prime minister one day, he would solve all the problems in the country, he means whether he was an emperor with absolute powers for one day. Real prime ministers usually understand the difference these two have. I usually say, because there were prime ministers who thought they could command as soldiers, recruiting strikers, ordering services and ordering them all. So they usually run those who don't know how to run. We reintroduce personal services to the role given to it by the Constitution under Article 22. We do not feel the need to decide and order, on the one hand, because it does not take us, it is not in our ideological culture, and, on the other, because we have seen what a mess those in the country who have found themselves have created to decide and order. Of course, they acted in the name of public order. When two donkeys cannot share hay, they always find themselves hiding behind public order. So much was the public order cut them off, that they abolished school guards, leaving schools with injurious evidence, endangering students and leaving school property exposed. So much was the public order that broke down the Municipal Police, making a number of provisions practically inapplicable and causing a loss of revenue to the municipalities. These services are now being re-established, as it proved how necessary it is for normal school and municipal life. Are we therefore overthrowing the reforms that would very much pave the way for a bright future in our country? Ladies and gentlemen, let us see how these reforms worked. Because I have personal experience of public administration, having worked for twenty-five years as an ergonomic doctor at the National Centre for Sports Research in the OAS, having passed a proper crisis in obtaining a research grade, I have actually seen how the reforming public of the Memorandums exploited its employees. In these years, he was a scientist with a doctoral and research degree after a crisis in a quite rare scientific object of sport. He was a regular official of the Ministry of Culture, where he was subject to the National Sports Research Centre, the EAEC. The EAEC had a gap right on this specialty and could not cover it. He therefore requested that he be transferred to the EAEC and dealt with in his subject-matter. The first Memorandum of Understanding refused to translate it and made him work in the Protocol. The last Memorandum of Understanding instead upgraded him to the Ministry of Finance to a serious subject, but not to his studies. Man reformed! Ladies and gentlemen, we want to be a little more reasonable in this respect, so although we do not have the reformist ostro of our predecessors, we are establishing a simple and transparent procedure for the mobility of civil servants covering such cases. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the most difficult reforms are the simplest, common sense dictates them. It's harder because after you do them, it reduces your ability to get dissatisfied. It reduces your authority to order and some things start to work just, smoothly, logically, without giving you the chance to turn for some rushphetti. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the principle of common sense from which this bill is governed, which - if you like - stops, reduces any arbitraryness, and with this reason I am enthusiastically voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Alonitou, for the last speaker tonight. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-04-S1-commons.u212	With the consent of the House at 1.00 p.m. the meeting is closed for Tuesday, May 5, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuing to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democratisation of Administration, Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions"
