ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of today's Questions and Questions of 27 April 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 133/21-4-2015 topical question by MP Evros of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anastasia Gara to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on transnational responsibilities in the management of the water of the Evros River. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 141/21-4-2015 topical question by MP II, New Democracy, George Koumoutsakos, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning the international aspects of the immigration problem. 3. The question asked by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the privatisation of the Piraeus Port Authority (PO). 4. The question asked by MP Drama of the River Mr Kyriakos Charakides to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the figures and data relating to the total amount of loans to enterprises and households, the amount of red loans and the amount of guaranteed loans from the Greek State. 5. The question by No. 137/21-4-2015 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on measures to ensure the cleanliness of the school units and the working rights of cleaners. 6. The Question No 122-20-4-2015 by MP Mr. II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the supporting documents required for the certification of the tax home. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnanias of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the reduction of the cost of crossing the "Harilaos Trikoupis" bridge in western Greece. B. REFERENCES Second Circle (Art. 130(2)) 2 and 3 KC. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 1. The 132/21-4-2015 topical question by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the operation of the Municipal Radio Station of Kos (DIRASK). 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 140/21-4-2015 topical question by MP I Athens of New Democracy Mr Kikilia to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on public order and civil protection. 3. The 126/20-4-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the major issue of the increased flow of illegal immigrants to Greece. 4. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction concerning measures to remove waste in the Municipality of Pyrgos and Ancient Olympia in the prefecture of Ilia. 5. The 116/20-4-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Finance on the abolition of tax provisions for small and medium-sized farmers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Ilias of New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Javara to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism about the construction of the western part of the ‘Olympia Road’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the reading of REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Panayota Dritselli, to read out the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u2	The Members of the Cyclades Mr Nikolaos Manios, Antonis Syrigos and Nikolaos Syrmalenes report to the Ministers for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and State the document of the Municipality of Kimolos of 6/3/2015, which states that the digital transition has been completed in a form - from what we read - in many parts of Greece and do not have a chance to see the wonderful digital world. This long list includes the village of Kimolos. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Charilaos Tsakalis, Socrates Famelos, Theodoros Parastatisdis, Elissavet (Betty) Skouthas, Yiannis Stathas, Zesis Zannas, Annetas Kavadias file a report to the Minister of Home and Administrative Reconstruction on "Request for the Regional Association of Municipalities of Central Macedonia to deal with natural disasters and strengthen wounded municipalities from civil protection". Parliamentarians Mr Panagiota Dritchelis, Mr Sakis Papadopoulos and Mr Christos Simorellis report to the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject of ‘Serious withdrawal of trucks with a registration date prior to 1999’. MP Imathias Georgios Ursouzidis submits a report to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject "Request for a charity, a non-profit Association of Friends of the Centre of Special Skills of the Municipality of Veroia on the coverage of serious logistic deficiencies". MEP Mr Andreas Michaelides submits a report to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on "Extreme Issues of the Association of Judges of Chios". MEP Mr Nicos Dendias submits a report to the Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on 'Limit for oil consumption of buses in municipal transport'. MEP Kostas Karamanlis submits a report to the Ministers for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Health and Social Security on the subject "Strengthening the Centre for Therapeutic Horse Riding Serres". Congressman Rodopis Evripidis Stylianidis presents a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the subject "School Cycling Games". The MPs, Mr Stavros Tassos, Mr Diamantos Manolakos and Mr Manolis Synthrakis, refer to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs the letter of the Mayor of Ikaria, which calls for immediate steps to be taken to resolve the problems encountered in the operation of the archaeological sites of Ikaria. MEP Mr Vassilis Kokkalis presents a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the memorial to the small landowners of the Municipal District of Kalamaki, the Municipality of Killer, the Region of Thessaly, the state of the land owners of the region of Lower Kalamaki, the reference to the small landowners in the Kalamaki district of Agia Larissa and the former Lake of Carlas, the decision of the Larissa Court to abolish the law and harmonise the legal framework with the number. 511/1981 judgment of the Larissa District Court. MEP Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos submits a report to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr. Panagiotis Lafazani, on the subject of “Appropriations for the 2015 Arkadian Dactical Program”. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents a report to the Finance and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers in order to place them on the letter and the attached e-mails that were promoted on the complaint - a citizen protest about the complete incompatibility of the objective values defined by the DU in relation to the real value of land. Member Catherine Papanatsiou submits a report to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on 'Amendment of the Law on the Seasonal Employment of Farmers of the Main Insurance Division'. MEP Andreas Michailides submits a report to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on "Objection of measures to protect local businesses". Parliamentarians Vassilis Kyritakis, Vassilis Levas, Apostolis Karanastasis, Yiannis Stathas and Ilias Kostopanagiotou report to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on "Reopening of an examination centre for IKK graduates in Lamia". Members of Parliament, Alexandros Meikopoulos, Danais Jekas, Kostas Demetros, Katerina Papanatsiou and Makis Ballis, present a report to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject "Requests of the Association of Healthcare Officers of Magnesia". Parliamentarian Serres Kostas Karamanlis reports to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject of 'Reexamination of criteria for the grant of grievance'. MEP George Vlachos submits a report to the Minister of Finance on 'Sea zone management'. The MPs, Mr Stavros Tassos, Mr Diamantos Manolakos and Mr Manolis Synthrakis present a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs the letter of the Mayor of Ikaria calling for a financial grant in order to satisfy a number of the municipality's requests in the field of sport. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reports to health and finance ministers on the subject “Complaint of the attitude of payment in the received newspapers of hospital doctors since November 2014”. MEP Vassilis Kegeroglou submits a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis on the matter to compensate the winegrowers of Heraklion who were affected by bad weather. MEP Mr Constantine Dermitzakis submits a report to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject: 'The establishment of an independent Fire Service at the Municipal Airport of Sitia 'Vicchenzos Cornaros'. MEP Christos Simorelis submits a report to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject "Request for the former contract workers of the Municipality of Trikkalis for moleculosis". MEP SIA Anagnostopoulos submits a report to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights on the subject of 'Prevention - development of the case of the Achaean Cooperative Bank'. Congressman Rachel Makre presents a report to the Foreign and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers on "Examination request for secondment of a police officer abroad". MEP Serres Kostas Karamanlis submits a report to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the subject of "Location of a bright signal on a train crossing in the Cave Alistrati". MEP George Vlachos submits a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the Tolls of Interests "Olympia Road", where the removal of the lateral tolls and the reduction of the price of Elefsina and Isthmos tolls is to a minimum. Parliamentarians Christos Katsotis, Sakis Vardalis, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, George Lambroulis and Manolis Synthrakis have submitted a petition to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction from the letter of the Federation of Officials of the Greek Regions calling for an immediate decision to be taken on elections by the representatives of officials to the councils of the thirteen regions of the country. MEP Mr Dimitrios Kammenos filed a petition to the Minister of Health on the subject of "Clarifications and proposals of the Association of Scientists of Logopathologists - Logotherapists of Greece in the replacement of the B.C. Date of birth: 176/2014.’ MEP Vassilis Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Ministers for Finance, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Production Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, on the letter of Mayor of Chania for the concession, by law, of the municipalities from the state of use and management of the beach and agialos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Reports completed. Before entering the debate on the current questions, let me announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance of 20 April 2015, the Act of Legislative Content "Additional regulation for the transfer of cash to the Bank of Greece for investment".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 112/20-4-2015 of the First Circular of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Dritsel to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the need to speed up the process of compensation for restoring the livestock of the country's farmers. The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy Mr Evangelos Apostolos will respond. Mrs. Drittelli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u5	Minister, the country's livestock farming in recent years really would say that it has experienced a destructive, slow death, mainly because of an empty agricultural policy which, if anything, has also deteriorated by the implementation of incredible austerity policies implemented in previous years. Every day farmers - and this is a common confession - have to face insuperable obstacles. Last year, however, it was a particularly difficult year for farmers in the country and for livestock production in general, because in many areas farmers saw much of their livestock lost because of dangerous diseases, such as bluetongue spread throughout Greece or bee-fever. The state, mainly because, in my opinion, underestimated the problem and the extent to which it is going to take, but also because of some bad manipulations, has not managed to deal with or prevent the spread of these diseases and the losses to farmers have been very large. The recurring leadership could not cover these losses in the previous period, and today a large number of farmers throughout the country really expects the support of the Ministry to be able to restore their livestock and continue its activity. So, Minister, we would like you to tell us what the Ministry's planning is about the compensation procedure for the loss of animals, what the immediate steps you are planning on this issue, and what the Ministry has today to take in this area. Because you know that it is very important for farmers to know, because in too many cases a large part or all of the livestock lost by several farmers has not been restored, with what this may mean for both production and the economy of the country. On the other hand, we would also like you to inform us of the Ministry's timetables, in relation to the ministerial decision made annually to plan the allowances relating to these cases, and of the amounts to be earmarked for this year's budget. I imagine you, too, are very well aware that the timely adoption of this decision is also very critical for the overall planning of the livestock economy, since, following this process, farmers will be able to complete the restoration of their herds and guarantee the related rights of their subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I will agree with you, my dear fellow Member, because in particular as regards the problems of livestock farming it is exactly the way you described them. We also had huge problems with the payment of aid for the livestock sector, but also with subsidies and zoonoses, which I would say was one of the most devastating causes that we had a great loss of livestock, but on the other hand, we also had hand-held behaviour in terms of governmental management, both on the issue of aid and on the issue of the treatment of zoonoses. For us, livestock is an area that we really regard as the only activity - particularly in mountain and mountain areas - which can exploit the comparative advantages of the country, but at the same time ensure a minimum sustainable income for farmers and the inhabitants of the region. We, with regard to the issue in particular to the management of the great problem of the eligibility of pastures and grazing land, have been hitting the alarm for two years, but unfortunately they have not listened to us. That is why our first concern since we received the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is the big issue of the eligibility of grazing areas. We started immediately, on the basis of a regulation, which had already entered into the process of accepting that in Greece the areas that are grazing are not only grassland, but are also the ones that have a woody vegetation, and that, of course, is also the great privilege that our country enjoys in terms of the quality of livestock products. In this respect, then, we have a framework which enables us to use such areas. So, on the basis of this assumption, we have entered a procedure for drawing up management plans, firstly, provisionally and definitively in the coming years, where, essentially, what is a reality, that is, the fifty million acres of our country, which are grazing areas, can as far as possible prove to be eligible for all these needs. It is a process under way, we have had a meeting recently with Commissioner Hogan, and we have also asked for some tolerance in terms of time. We therefore believe that we will be ready and that since this year at least we will have no problem paying the single payment and compensation payments. From there on, of course, the big bet for us is, if these management plans have a lasting character, to respond to the great problem of the area, and that is to meet the needs of the animal feed area. As far as the issues are concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u8	Minister, if you want to be brief, because we have already reached four minutes, and you have a second-class right anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u9	I shall therefore reply to my second question concerning compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u10	Mrs Dritselli has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it really is very interesting to inform you about animal husbandry issues and it seems the very great and structured effort of the Ministry, as well as the concern that currently governs the government's political leadership, about the issues that have affected livestock in recent years. It is important that we manage very wisely the problems that have accumulated over the past few years. We all understand it's too much. A hierarchy needs to be introduced, the priorities must be set, and we must gradually be able to respond in order to relieve the farmers of the country from the very heavy burdens that have been added to their backs. It is also important, Minister, to understand that, in order for these people to continue their activities, the Ministry should immediately take a number of steps to restore the people for the animals which have been slaughtered because of those diseases that I described earlier. Because I know that we both agree that it is not only an important step of the state to contribute to the restoration of disasters, but it is very important to plan and prevent, effectively reducing the risks, it would also be good to present us with the programme to prevent situations corresponding to last year. As you know, last year's rapid worsening of bluetongue caused enormous concern to farmers, who are really at the moment talking about whether we will be able to prevent such a situation from happening this year. We would like you to inform us about the forecasts you have taken in relation to prevention measures. I know - and if I am wrong, correct me - that in previous briefings you stressed that the Ministry has launched a series of scientific studies on better management of this issue and on appropriate intervention measures. Perhaps today, if you would like to report or make public any of the conclusions of these processes. It would be welcome for everyone, because we are really all very anxiously waiting for what is going to happen. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to say this: I think we have all made our fight from any point of view to rekindling the problems of livestock and the previous years. Everyone who is in this Chamber understands and agrees that the country's farmers are the people of labor and hard work who work endlessly and who eventually seems to be very few, so that they are among the most unfair branches of Greece at the moment. Just because our stockfarming offers a lot to both the country's economy and the food adequacy and the quality of food, I am sure you also agree that it deserves our attention and that it imposes an integrated, coordinated and effective approach, which it has not had in previous years. I am sure and after your position that clearly for the Ministry is a given aim to support livestock farming and we expect - you know - these interventions will come, with a great deal of interest, so that for the first time the farmers of Greece feel that they have an ally of the state in this difficult confession work they do and that for the first time the state is not against them and it is not even more difficult for them to do their work, their activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u13	Indeed, at the moment, two main issues in the livestock sector are, I would say, undergoing the process of a definitive result on the part of the Ministry: it is the great problem with the losses that we had last year because of bluetongue, that is to say, how to prevent and, at the same time - I would say - how all the compensation needed for the area will be paid and yet how to proceed with the reorganisation of livestock. From this point of view, therefore, our last meeting seems to result in the use of an vaccine. I cannot tell you at this time as a definitive one, given that there is the committee responsible, which deals with this issue and seems to be heading in this direction. With regard to compensation and resolution, a FCH is signed which provides for the allocation of EUR 22 million of which 8,5 million will cover compensation by the end of 2014 for zoonoses damages, blue fever, pests, etc. This is what should be given at least through assessments of the services. From there on there there is an amount of around EUR 13.5 million, which will be used to restructure livestock. It is a drop in front of the needs of livestock farming, but let us tell you that in this economic context we are experiencing you understand that we are doing too much to support a sector which, like you and us, all accept is a priority because of the quality of its products. These are products which at least on the world market are now known to be competitive and can represent our country. Of course, the problems are well known, you know them, and in particular those we have faced with the defence of products, such as, for example, the flag product, I would say to our country and a protected geographical indication, the feta. But I'll see you another time. And at this level we are fighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second under number 111/20-4-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the MP in Athens, Neo Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakou, to the Ministers of State and Foreign Affairs, concerning the statements by the Minister of National Defence on “the Aegean” is not discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. The third, with number 107/20-4-2015, top-stage question of Attica MEP - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Cassiri to the Minister for Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the exploitation of our national wealth and energy policy, is not discussed and deleted. We enter the fourth under number 118/20-4/2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on measures to ensure the timely execution of the tacosy in the country's olive groves. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, over the past five years, there have been considerable cuts in expenditure on the homicide and, of course, they have been imposed because of the economic capitalist crisis. If we compare the 2015 budget to that of 2009, we find some triple. The cut-offs and the delay in the lawnmower procedures put the quality of the result at high risk, i.e. the effectiveness of the method of bait spraying, which is both an environmentally friendly method and the most effective, of course. All of this brings serious consequences to the quality and hence to the income of producers. Some examples are reduced funds in Crete as well as in the Lesvos Prefecture and in other parts of the country, and all this, of course, when the cost has risen dramatically. Secondly, there is a desperate delay in the tactical process and this year's olive oil production. In other words, there is a risk that it will not happen or start with a great deal of delay, making it ineffective with all the consequences that this has, as I have just said. I will tell you that in Crete, with 33 million olive trees and an average annual derivative of twenty thousand tonnes, due to the ineffectiveness of the tacosy and the delay, of course, in its implementation, but also because of other factors, the annual losses total up to EUR 24 million. The same happened in the Thassos region, where the olive growers because of the forest's insult lost about 70-80% of production, and in the Fthiotida Prefecture, which produces over 50% of the edible olive. In view of the fact that the tender notices will start at the end of April and last forty days, we arrive at the beginning of June. However, it must also be passed by the decentralised administration and the Court of Auditors. This will last for at least one and a half months and we will be at the end of July. If there's any objection, we'll be out in mid-August. The whole system of tampering should normally be ready in May. If the first spray does not occur in early and mid-June at the latest, the torch will fluff all the consequences it has. And we say this because this year the damage to quantity and quality is likely to be even greater, because we have had many rainfall in many parts of the country. The only solution, in other words, is to avoid the long delay, the time spent on the tenders and to ensure the necessary staff, so also the loss of the harvest. Therefore, because of all these factors, we call on you to answer what measures you will take in order to increase the funds for the homicide and to make it from each region, as was the case before. This, of course, should mean the simultaneous recruitment of necessary personnel with ground workshops, archivists, sprayers, geoponists and other staff. Secondly, what measures will you take in order to proceed without delay, since it is scientifically proven that the first intervention, if not carried out on time - the end of May, the junior authorities - is making the whole programme ineffective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The Minister has the floor, Mr Evangelos Apostolos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, we're fighting. Many of these remarks you are saying, in fact, respond to the reality. We think we'll be ready. But we need to make a few things clear from the start. First of all, the training, coordination, supervision and control of the programmes for the control of forests belong to the regions and, in particular, to the Directorates for Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Offices for Regional Units. At the same time, according to the new organization of the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry also participates, in particular the Plant Protection Department of the Plant Production Department. Appropriations under the treasury programme shall be made from the central own resources of the municipalities, which, as you know, come from the following sources of State budget revenue. Because we have to be clear: Firstly, from the income tax on natural and legal persons to 20%, from the value added tax to 12% and from the real estate tax to 50%. There, then, as you can see, these concrete resources are less than those that existed in previous years. Therefore, the allocation of the appropriations for the olive-growing regions takes place following our own suggestion to the Ministry of Interior for 2015. On 25 February we sent a decision on this. Of course, in the Ministry of Interior, the figure for it to be able to cover was EUR 18 363,000. To cover the supply of spray materials another amount of 6,332,000 euros. What is this year's peculiarity? It is that this amount to cover spray materials will not be made available by the regional units for the market because there was this material from last year. So, in fact, again the amount actually available to deal with the homicide is greater than the amount that existed last year, when both amounts are added. So we have a total amount of EUR 24 696 000 to be allocated to 30 five olive-growing regions. Of course, in this distribution, as you can see, we in the various parameters that I can tell you in my dentistry have made such an distribution so that we can respond to the needs and, above all, that we can deal with this attempt to combat the torso as best as possible. I'll tell you more in my denture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have just admitted that all these problems and difficulties were the result of the policies implemented by the previous governments, where they dramatically reduced central self-resources to up to 70%. Of course, this practice seems to be continuing with your own government, in substance by taking the reserves and making it even more difficult to meet basic people's needs, as is the issue of tacosy. However, I would remind you, having the figures on the region's financial statement, that while anticipated by the 2014 budget of EUR 660 000 for the whole region of Crete, only EUR 2 500 000 have been allocated. Let us say that there was a discount, but the reduction is too great and dramatic. I am telling you this because the Region of Crete with its thirty-three million olive trees, as I have told you, and with such an annual average production, and bearing in mind that this year will be a feud - every two years this must be taken into account - it means that the appropriations, which seems to be 18 000 000, and which will actually be less, will in no way cover these real needs. And we say that because the needs here are very specific. There has been a dramatic decline in the number of directors, namely geotechnics, industrial technicians and trappers. You know, trapping is the spray booze. However, this figure has shrinked in recent years. The same has been done with the Heads of State or Government, that is, geotechnics. There are no people to control the forest populations everywhere. I will tell you that in the Heraklion Regional Unit for over two hundred municipal communities and apartments, last year the tacosy program was implemented and there should be at least thirty-five officials, that is, those who have been allocated for the whole region of Crete. There is also a great lack of staff. I will report to you that in 2008 they were all dealing with the homicide of ten thousand hundred and fifty-nine people. Evidently we reached 2014 with seventeen and threeteen. In other words, within six years we had a 93% reduction. Also, to torsostic contractors, which is a significant link in the chain, there is very high competition and so many contractors are given very low amounts. There are also serious problems with payments. As of March 2015, those involved in the homicide were paid. In conclusion, I should like to say that the majority of the oil producers, Mr Minister, have small and medium-sized producers. The European Union and the Greek governments do not want small and medium-sized farmers but a few big businessmen who will make their own tacosy with environmental effects - because they are spraying with a six-fold drug and spray - and with an impact on the quality of the product. Our appreciation, of course, is intensified by the fact that the retention of 2% of the olive oil for tacosty is inconsistent with the small producer. That's why he's forced to do it on his own, but until when? It can't be objective anymore. The homicide cannot be the individual responsibility of each producer, because it has high costs, it becomes ineffective if it is not made in time, massively, designed and has no impact on the environment. The delay and shortcomings in the tactics along with all the other problems - carpets, low producer prices, high production costs, reduced subsidies for olive cultivation, with the new common agricultural policy and much more - will speed up their removal. In our view, the state is conscious every year of cutting the funds and along with all its services and does not take all steps in time to start when the torso killing must be done, mainly with a view to getting rid of the torso, which is the most dangerous thing for the oil production of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. And with tolerance from the Bureau, Mr Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u23	Dear colleague, as you can see, we have never said that we will overturn all these policies that we have received in two months, nor are they possible, particularly in the current circumstances. From that point on, we're trying, as far as possible, to fix things. And because you mentioned features in the case of Crete, I have to tell you that the appropriations that we approved in relation to the expenditure for 2014 are increased by 13%. I mention in particular: While 2014 we had approved the total amount of EUR 8.935 000, what was spent was EUR 6.118 000. So in relation to the amount of EUR 7.113,000 we have an increase. From there on, because the whole process needs to be further worked out, particularly with regard to technical data, there is provision, since the expenditure in question is not covered, which can give us the possibility of transferring appropriations - but be careful - from other regional units and regions. The amount is that, but on the way because such issues are being observed, we are monitoring them and we will be able to see if there is a need to cover the extra costs. In this respect, of course, there is one issue with the recruitment process. We have already asked for nine hundred people to be recruited. That is not enough, and because it is not enough, we are forced many times, as you said, trapping and more to give them to contractors. It is an issue that we cannot overthrow at this time. In our whole planning, however, as you can see, all these issues will be dealt with. I would like to make it clear to you, my dear colleague, one thing: in particular for a product, such as olive oil, oil, which has suffered and the consequences of the new common agricultural policy - which we are obliged to see, we must rethink, because it is a sector that we need, but at the same time it has potential on the world market, which we must use - we must finally tackle the big problem. It is not possible for more than 80% - 85% of the country's olive oil to come out in bulk, when the potential for added value is enormous.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the debate of the first under number 114/20-4-2015 topical question of the second cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the need to restore the damage caused to agricultural crops by the severe weather phenomena in the areas of Lower Nerokotios and the Municipality of Doxatos. The Deputy Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, will answer. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have repeatedly visited the region of the Neuroscope on several occasions, so you know exactly what we are talking about today. It has been preceded since the beginning of the year by a quarter of high rainfall culminating in snowfall in mid-March, which created huge issues in the Nerokopi basin and especially in local communities. This means ten thousand acres of flooded, devastation of the rural roads, destruction of irrigation channels, and so today, not just to say that the region is in danger of being cultivated, but that the possibility of the region being cultivated has been lost. And this, taking into account that we are talking about an area which has an exclusive income from the agricultural product, means that the situation in Lower Neurokopi is beyond the designation 'tragic'. In view of the fact that this story absolutely needs to be solved immediately and in order to build the confidence that farmers must have towards the ELGA, to stop being a tax-based mechanism, as it was in the past with the previous governments, we are asking what ELGA programming is and what the recovery of farmers will be financially in relation to the disasters that have been suffered. On the other hand, it's the part of farmers. We're talking about a mountainous area. There are at least fifteen flocks destroyed. There is a problem of access to the flocks because of the snowfall and the destruction of these mountain roads and people are literally at the mercy of the weather and God so that they can survive this year. The question was preceded by Mrs Panayota Dritselli's question on compensation problems. We believe that special care should be taken to the farmers of Lower Neuroscope because, if anything, these people are staying in an area that we would otherwise pay them to stay. Having no access whatsoever to the market, having no help from the state infrastructure in previous years, they choose to stay in an area where it is difficult even to get out to walk in the winter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u27	Mr Colleague, as you have seen, we ran and went to all regions, where especially this year's weather conditions were unprecedented. In any case, the estimates are not yet complete. In particular, for the wider region of Nerokopi, which was damaged and for cereals, the necessary labels were made on the part of ELGA services, but the procedure has not yet been completed. There have been announcements of more than four hundred acres, i.e. more than eleven and twelve declarations made. The issue is under way. From this point of view we, once the waters are withdrawn, will reach conclusions and will thus immediately begin the procedures for the payment of compensation for damages covered by the ELGA concerning plant production and livestock. In particular, I would say that we have two problems that we need to see more overall. The first is what will happen with the rights of many producers who are not able to grow these land. The second is what will happen with an income that will be lost from the point of view of those concerned. I would say that within the context of the region as a whole, we are trying to see whether there is any possibility of looking for the European Commission's Solidarity Fund - because it lays down certain conditions - and for claiming compensation. From that point of view, it is certain that rights will immediately be granted a document to ensure that they are not lost. Of course, when we get to the time when we are appraised and the income lost, we will see through the European Commission's approval procedures how we will give this de minimis from Community aid so that we can help the area. Of course, as far as the major problems we have mentioned about livestock farming are concerned, and the region has a very well-developed livestock farm and a support is needed. I would say in my dentext maybe we will see a broader project involving specific actions by region, so that we can get on a path of more permanent intervention in similar situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Karayannides has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u29	The question refers to the Municipality of Doxato. The Municipality of Doxatos has a croping part of the Tenabe of the Philippi. And that's the same disaster. I just want to say this: for years there has been no substantial infrastructure intervention in the region. For years money has been given just to correct the temporary disasters. And therefore, in the area, an infrastructure plan must be drawn up based on the prevention of floods. Nor should we have the phenomenon in that country in winter drowning from the waters and in summer not have water so that they can water their crops. At some point, in the medium term, strategic planning must be carried out and the Ministry of Rural Development must take this into account, namely how we can manage the good water so that it does not destroy us and at the same time serves our growing seasons. On the other hand, it remains as a response from the Ministry, in addition to what you have said very clearly about compensation and assistance to farmers, the destruction of the infrastructure that has occurred and the Neuroscope, but also in the pens. And we're talking about destroying irrigation channels and rural roads. I know that the economic situation is not very helpful to this story, but we should bear in mind that if we want to rely on the primary sector, if we want to keep our farmers and our farmers in the countryside, a plan must be made to give money hierarchically to these actions so that we can also have tomorrow's agricultural and livestock products. On the other hand, it would be good if these visits were carried out at regular intervals on the part of the Ministry - and not individually from you - so that we can have a picture per region of what products we want to help grow and what our livestock procedures are to be prioritised. With this logic, I think that at last a plan that has never been planned at European level, what we are claiming - what you are doing these days in Brussels - and what the country needs in terms of agricultural and livestock products, must go on a path so that at last we do not give farmers and farmers a promise - not to say things that will never happen, but, as you have said, that is a reality on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u31	My dear colleague, we really need to find the way of understanding, because on a number of issues that have been discussed, the regional units have not even been involved, and it is their responsibility, and they must also assume their responsibilities. That is why, for our part, we will come up with an action plan with the ministries involved. For example, in the case of dams and canals, everything that has been done so far is exactly what you have said. A timely treatment and next year we are in the same problem again, and we are growing up. We must therefore draw up a comprehensive plan of actions in the specific regions with the relevant ministries and regional units. At the same time, we should see what we are going to do on our own side with the eligible expenditure, for example, in the rural development programme, which also has a delay, but also in the programme that we are now walking, and see what we will do with the next programme so that we can incorporate such activities, because the restoration of damage is, in fact, an investment activity in order to return to the pretext situation. So, in this direction, we can see what eligible costs can come in because, as you all understand, the possibilities of funding from national resources today are very difficult. So there are certain possibilities and we will be going in that direction. We believe in the appropriate use of the framework that exists on the part of the European Commission and the rural players. In particular, ELGA is making a great effort at this time and responding in time to the compensation, but at the same time at the time at the time of recording and assessing the damage. It is, however, a matter - particularly in this area - which concerns, my dear colleague, and other products. In particular, this area has the possibility of reaching a product designation of origin and geographical indication. So in that direction we will fight together so that we can actually support the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next timely question, let me make two announcements: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th High School of Neapolis Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and a teacher from "School Panayotopoulos". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We enter the third with number 97/15-4-2015 topical question from the Member of the Istanbul Parliamentary of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the OPECE Action Plan. The Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Evangelos Apostolos, will respond. Here you are, Mr Moraite. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u33	Minister, desperation and desperation dominate the poor medium-sized farmers in the country, who are experiencing the consequences of the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union implemented by all governments and your coup d'état also serves, because you have a gospel of your agricultural policy the common agricultural policy and the results of the policy are thousands of farmers of mountainous disadvantaged regions not get any compensation or get any crumbs for the years 2013-2014. These, Minister, are on the basis of the Community guidelines for the 2012 plan of action to declassify the pastures that actually came out of millions of acres used by farmers until then. And don't tell us that there are few farmers, because you have a regular tactic to say that they are few. They're enough. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I will tell you two examples that exist. For example, in the Law of Ioannina from the two thousand seventy-five only six hundred eighty-seven received a compensatory compensation for 2014. Something similar is also happening for 2013. One more thing, Minister, and I would like you to respond in particular. The previous government in a policy of stalling and balming has put hundreds of thousands of hectares of cattle, and this will lead these farmers to suffer what our people say: 'Where we were owed, we were taken by the ox', to be punished. So all of this must give you a clear answer. We as a Communist Party of Greece had warned in good time about these negative consequences. And we say it now to you that these consequences are not just in compensation for compensation. There will also be consequences for the new CAP 2015-2020 which will reduce subsidies to poor medium-sized farmers there. After all, this is the European Union's policy to reduce, to strike small and medium-sized farmers. The consequences, however, will also be dramatic in organic livestock farming, because very small farmers have used these pastures. That is why the consequences will also be dramatic in this area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that you must give a clear answer. We'll tell the word for the new forest maps. Will farmers receive subsidies for 2013 and 2014? Mr Apostle, we were together in the Committee on Production and Trade you said at the time that you would immediately give. And do not say that "it is three months", because you have been able to get the money from OPEKEPE for three months, even those crumbs and leave the farmers unpaid. You should also reply to Rule 68. It was the stockfarmers' money they went to pay the lenders. From the debt haircuts, you pay them up to the last euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Moraite, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. I close with this: we and the consistent agricultural movement have raised an issue; subsidies are not given on the basis of pastures, but are given to production, given to livestock. It is a request which you have put before us in the past, and that is what we are asking for. You can answer it clearly. No. 'We'll see about '15'. Say '13 and '14 if the poorest farmers get compensation. Then we will say about the blue and all that you have said in a previous question answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u36	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u37	My dear colleague, there are parallel concerns about the livestock sector. In particular, during the last parliamentary term, we had fought together. But we need to make a few things clear. We do not have the common agricultural policy as a gospel. You simply realise that we cannot ignore the fact that there are about three billion euros, which we must make use of, manage them in such a way and above all not lose them. So, in that direction, it seems that we cannot have a common course. From there on, in fact, all these problems that you described, especially as regards the choices of pastures, are problems that we talked about, we talked about, the livestock area experienced, such as being hundreds of miles away from the pastures that it had as eligible. We therefore have to deal with this problem on a permanent and definitive basis. That is why we are making an effort to determine what the grazing land is in our country and, of course, through the specific provisional and final management plans for these areas, to provide a permanent and definitive solution, which is not only to meet the requirements of a formal nature, that each farmer must have these areas, but must have these areas which, with their grassland capacity and their capacity, are in response to the great problem that the livestock area has, in other words, the low cost of its inputs, which in this case is feed. So the objectives of the legislation we are preparing, and we will shortly be bringing it to the House, I would say, have three basic guidelines. Firstly, meeting the needs of our livestock farming with regard to the typical piece. Secondly, the reliable application of the direct aid rules so that producers receive all the aid that they are entitled to. Thirdly, the protection of ecosystems so that the use of pastures can be productive and developmental. We need a whole process. I would say that this procedure is under way. I would like to tell you not to forget that we have found a Ministry with two files with 1.3 fines that must be paid immediately and 1.3 awards to be recovered from farmers, from cooperative bodies. So you realise that this'storm', in order to deal with it, we must be credible in order to solve the problems. There are currently meetings to reduce fines and charges as much as possible, but to do so, you understand that these proposals we make must be credible and above all applicable. It's a river, your timely question, it's a lot of your issues. In dentistry we'll say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Moraite has the floor for a second reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, 'cows, breath for the cigarette'. You have not answered the question and you are not going to answer it. We have no illusions because you have a good news of the CAP. Now, the management terminology doesn't exist. This policy is a policy that inherits poor medium-sized farms. The farmers must be concerned and they must bear in mind that they will not be paid for the '13 and '14. You say they won't be paid. These are the consequences of this policy. You did not answer, Mr Minister, for the quality of the matter, Article 68. You took the money and gave it to the lenders. It was money for the quality paradigm and you only gave for cattle and not for sheep and goats. At the moment, Minister, thousands of livestock farmers - and they and their herds - are on the limit of survival. But let's see this too. You said earlier about the blue. What are you going to do about the blue? Are you going to pay indemnity? When the previous coup d'état had deprived the veterinary services, which you do not have today, we have in whole areas where the cataracts actually established that there is no record of a single incident. How are you going to pay indemnity? Tell us. Not a single incident was recorded in whole areas, such as Haitolocarnania, which is the first county of the country in the breeding of sheep and goats. In Iannina, across the continent, there was not a single incinerator. Even the veterinarians where they were going in some cases to give instructions to farmers, put money out of their pockets. You said it, Mr. Apostle. Today, perhaps, you have forgotten about it. Of course, poor medium-sized farms are not only waiting for it, but others are waiting for it. Tax is waiting for her. Taxation is also awaiting subsidies. You say this law will call it back? Will you withdraw 27.5% that farmers will pay as an advance tax for the new year? You'll really love them! That's the reality. As far as the new pasture plan is concerned, we are telling you that you are about to bring back the old PASOK law of 1987, which the Council of State had made unconstitutional, Minister, by decision 644. Dismiss some provisions not to be unconstitutional and put before farmers that you are supposed to serve them. But we will also say this in the debate on the bill that you are serving interests, invading the forests of entrepreneurs, businessmen in tourism, industry and elsewhere. But that's what we'll talk about then. Now answer what we have set out. We say clearly that the aim of the CAP policy is to gather sheep and goat farming into large capitalist enterprises and we call on farmers. Today they have enough experience, they must draw conclusions from your current responses, too, they must organize their struggle to overthrow this barbaric policy that exterminates farmers and, more generally, farmers in the country. We're waiting for answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u41	The point is to get to know one another. Approaching and documenting for these lands a particular use and the use of grazing, where do you get it from, that we are trying to transfer these lands to the private, the large, capital, etc.Huh? We will not deal with issues of ownership of these areas. The prestige of our land is also interested in ensuring that these areas are distributed, you will be aware of the fact that we are multiplying the insurance policy in order not to change the nature of the land concerned. So others are about it, not us. From there on, the question is how we will be able to approach them in particular through a solution. I have made it clear from the outset that we want to take this money and want to manage it, and we are trying as much as possible to serve the policies we want in the area, having the pillow of this money as well. From there on, you raised issues relating to bluetongue. I said earlier to the question that we are, in fact, in the process, signing this CSR. Through the CRL we have 22 million euros, of which essentially 8.5 million euros will be given to cover the losses of the animal population from the blue hake until the end of 2014 and we are trying to use the remaining 13.5 million euros to restructure the livestock. These are interventions that basically support a space. With regard to the issues you mentioned, in general terms, tax, let us not forget that together we were shouting yesterday that it is not acceptable to have tax from the first euro to 13%, all that is being adopted at the expense of the area is unacceptable. We have also made it clear from our side that the tax bill that we will of course bring, and there will be a tax-free limit of EUR 12 500, will not be regarded as a taxable income for the rural area as issues relating to aid and compensation. Why, then, do we not serve them today? My dear colleague, as I said at the outset, I understand your anxiety about the livestock sector. But above all, because a draft law has come up in the past few days, I would say, in the field of livestock farming, that you can help us with documentation, because we want your help to finally tackle a problem that we are all fighting together in the countryside. Finally, livestock farming is the area that can only contribute to the sustainable development of the countryside.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u42	In '13 and '14, you did not answer whether farmers are going to receive compensation subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. We enter the first with number 105/17-2-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the review of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). Mr Apostle, Deputy Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, will answer the question. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, two issues are essentially my question. One concerns the CAP and development, and the other concerns taxation. I would like to see the debate organised in my narratives. The farmers' tax, which has been in force since this year for the first time with this year's declarations, has not been completed. The commitment to 12,000 tax-free, that is to say, that it has been in force since this year, would solve a number of issues. However, the failure of this election commitment, according to Mr Varoufakis' statement in my question, and the implementation of the time, puts, in fact, a number of issues before you in order to deal with them. You are not the relevant Ministry, but you must have an opinion, because it is about productive reconstruction. I would like to ask you about the proposal that I have tabled - which the previous staff of the Ministry of Finance had been working on. I have asked the General Accounting Office of the State to make a report, to be taken as a result of an imputable expenditure of 20% on revenue, without documents for this year and with the fact that 12 000 tax is not applicable and that the conditions had not matured, so that farmers can prove all their expenses, whether they concern workers or other activities. It's the first year of application. The second thing I would like to ask you to place yourself, because it is very important, is that while there is nowhere an explicit mandate, a commitment or any provision that does not provide for the taxation of subsidies and allowances, the accountants, because of their overall responsibility, want a circular which they want to mention in order not to tax subsidies and allowances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's a very important matter. In my opinion, there is no need for legislation, because the tax on subsidies and allowances is not provided anywhere. It would be very good for these two issues to be clear what your Ministry's attitude is, which, as I said, is not the responsible Ministry, but it is the responsible Ministry for Rural Development, and so it has a serious reason and role on this matter. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Colleague, you've been left on a subject. Of course your question is a river. We're staying on this issue. To clarify one thing, that what you have developed and asked for our position is what you have adopted, you have voted for it, and when it comes to implementation, because there are no necessary clarifications - I will agree with you - the accountants are coming and looking for what we are going to do in this case. So it's your business. At the same time, your point concerns a budget which you have also brought from last financial year, for which SYRIZA does not have any responsibility. It is an issue that remains open to us too. There is now a debate on this at this point. I can tell you what we as a new government are committed to implementing. We are therefore clear once again that compensation and aid for rural areas from national and Community resources will not be calculated on the farmers' taxable income. This is our course. The rest of you have said that we are waiting for a relevant procedure. I can't answer you right now. As you are referring in particular to the taxation of space, sincerely, my dear fellow Member, I cannot explain how it is now possible for you to come to say, 'From the first euro it is unacceptable to tax, to enter a profession'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Moraite said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u48	I know that you supported and voted for these regulations. This does not mean that I can allow you not to express your anxiety about the rural area. But when we ask ourselves, the purpose is to have a consistency with what we say. You've raised too many issues. We are making it clear: EUR 12 000 (12 000) tax-free net income for the farmer, which may in the process refer to the gross individual income of the farmer. Let's see the atomic income. To date you know that there was what we call 'the farmer's family income'. There are issues relating to revenue and expenditure books, with the trade fee - if possible, how did you introduce it? - to consider a farm production activity as a pretext. So of all that has been taxed and it really makes it difficult for the farmer to respond, we will ease him from a very heavy burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister's view, which says, for example, about the medium term? The medium term, as you know, has been valid for three years. Well, since the medium-term vote has been taken, we have not been able to do anything for three years. That's the newly known view that Mr. Apostleu told us here. No, Mr. Apostle. You have an election programme and an election commitment for the 12 000 euros. You broke her. And I say to you that you have failed her for the reasons you are saying. You broke it for your own reasons. If applicable, there was no need to specify the previous scheme. Now that you have failed, there is a need - I say this specifically - for at least 20% to be taken into account as imputable expenditure without income documents, in order not to unfair the farmers who had not, in most cases, been informed of the procedure for revenue and expenditure. It's a reality. Irrespective of the convergences of ours, there are the farmers who need to see how to deal with their problems. That is what I am saying about the substance. You cannot say that because the previous House voted for it, we do not touch it, we will come after three years that will end in the medium term. Is it possible to say these things here when it's known that the law changes law the next day? It is known that you can even fix it! Not only for the reserves and for the expropriations of the big-fashioned and big-fashioned, as you did with the first FPI. So don't bring that kind of justification. It is good that you confirmed what we had in the previous situation, that no subsidy, no compensation will be taxed. And I also believe what you said about the other issues, that you will see what you are going to do. I would also like to ask my question on the new CAP, for which, of course, you have given me an answer, but I am not satisfied with it. When I ask you, before the final adoption of the new CAP, whether you intend to review the negative aspects and the Rusphetan political decisions of the previous political leadership - I tell you that too! - you say that the file, as has been submitted, is fair and fairly handles subsidies among Greek farmers. That's what your written answer says. It says Apostle Evangelos. He was wrong by the President and said the Gospel Apostle, but he is Vangelis Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Kegeroglu, I've corrected the wrong one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u52	It would help him now, because he's signing up as a Vangelis Apostleu. It says, 'The arrangements provided for in the national file for the implementation of the new CAP aim to make the best use of the provisions and money of the new European policy for the benefit of farmers'. At another point it says that 'the distribution is fair'. What I want to point out is that there is an issue with olive cultivation. It is subject to a greater reduction with huge responsibility for the previous political leadership. I would ask you, if there is any room - I don't know - to reconsider it. The second point I would like to raise is that the payment to the development pillar has been frozen. No payment is made by the development pillar due to the fact that the available funds have gone to serve international loan sharks, the IMF and others. We didn't forget them. Thirdly, Article 68: You have paid for cattle, but for sheep and goats nothing. Finally, I want to refer to this phenomenon that could happen to anyone. It has nothing to do with you. But it has to do with extra-institutional factors, who tried to seize a political leadership decision, in order to intervene in the evaluation carried out on the programmes to improve the quality of olive oil addressed to olive-growing operators. I have also heard from Mr Vardakis who met with you and that is why I am giving you a discharge in advance. Unfortunately, some continue to intervene, as they intervene over time. The question is whether they will find ground, Minister. I believe with you - I mean your face - they won't find any ground. But you have to act, because the mice underneath work. It is obvious that they tried about 10 million to distribute it according to the beam. And we have specific names. In order for the assessment to be carried out under the law and, of course, for there to be no injustice for anyone, for the assessment to be carried out. If there's any need to be given to other property money, we need to find a way to increase the budget. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u54	My dear colleague, this is where we shall speak with clear words. The rats, the big timers, the great interests, we'll call them by calling them. Otherwise, we throw words into the air. To say that we in our first legislative act have freed fraudsters and great interests, and it does not even appear from anywhere. You have suffered all of this as part of it, and you know where they led you. So be clear in our relationships. So we will indeed see your proposal. In your budget, you have certainly calculated this. One of the areas that according to the budget - if applied - will bleed, is the farmer. He'll bleed to pay all those tax charges you've imposed on him. And now you're coming to lift up rebellious when we're trying. See, for example, - because we will discuss this - our intervention for the sugar industry. Shall we let her close? Do we want it or do we not want it in the rural area? We have to make this clear to each other. I will tell you this: Do you know the available OPEKEPE at what rate was it? With 0%. And we did it to the Bank of Greece with 2.3% - 2.4% to meet liquidity needs. We all know. But where did these needs come from when you at the same time throw words into the air?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u55	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u57	We will fight to keep the country up. But at the same time, Mr Kegeroglu, for what we have committed ourselves, we will give the answers we need to give. So don't throw words into the air. As far as the common agricultural policy is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u58	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u59	Yesterday, at the European Council of Agriculture Ministers, we had a debate on flexibility with the possibility of intervening in the common agricultural policy. When it comes to reviewing time - my answer was that, because this year's review is not taking place - at the end of 2016, in 2017, of course, these interventions will take place. From now on, we have designed them, with the aim of transferring them from the first pillar to the second pillar, in particular to the related aid, which we are fighting there to include as many products as possible and, at the same time, to support an area, livestock farming, which we have been talking about before. Mr. Kegeroglu, because you're engaged in the rural area, we'll be here and I'll see you around. And you can be certain that what we commit ourselves, with steady steps, will satisfy them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the next timely question, let me have a statement: Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that Our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, thirty-four students and students and three educational escorts from the Gymnasium of Gumenissa Kilkis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We enter the fifth under the number 100/154-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the energy policy of the country. The Minister will answer Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Apostle is here. Therefore, although my question is addressed to Mr Lafazani, I will make a comment on what he has said. You're not an investment consultant, Minister. Yesterday, in the House and yesterday, two days whole, we are discussing this compulsory removal of the reserves from the agencies. Too many operators had their reserves at very small interest rates or even zeros or close to zero, as many others have their reserves at more than 4%, which the government had not seen and said it will sometime correct, because it breaks the exclusive deadlines. What we have seen in these two days, Minister, is that the people who will be deprived of these resources will be borrowed to fill their gaps at 8% interest rate. This must be your concern, not the investment consultant here, that from 0.5% or from 0%, you go to 2.5%. That's not your role. Just so we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr Loverdos, you have tabled a specific timely question, and you have been called upon to develop. Now you are addressing Mr. Apostleu...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u63	I'm coming back to class. I'll develop it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u64	What's coming back?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u65	After 12.00 p.m. the debate on the legislative act begins. You'll have plenty of hours...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u66	I will see you in practical terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u67	I used one of the most serious arguments...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u68	Let me give you the time. You will have plenty of time for all Members to develop your positions on the legislative act. Let us now confine ourselves to this timeline you have tabled. The Minister, Mr. Lafazanis, is here to answer. That was the question, and he himself agreed to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u69	He's not doing us a favor. It is a parliamentary obligation, which I thank him for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Loverdo, I didn't say that he's doing nothing thanks to anyone. The Minister, the political leadership of the respective ministries, is obliged to attend and answer Members' questions. This is always the demand of all Members and parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u71	I see you've started very aggressively, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u72	Please, in your prototype soon, because we have already had enough time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u73	I am critical, Mr President, because as my Minister I have never despised this House and I respect the Minister who is here today. However, on the basis of what the House is discussing for two days, I had to remind Mr Apostolos that he is not an investment consultant but a Minister of the Hellenic Republic. Mr Lafazani, Minister, I am glad that you are not a Member of Parliament, because with what you have said for so many years on 'parliamentary coups', on the occasion of every act of legislation, you would be in a very unpleasant position to support an act of legislation which has come to be ratified and, in fact, in an urgent way, without any reason. Because, already, its legal effects are data and could come as an amendment to the draft law of NERIT on Monday. You would find it very difficult, if you were only a Member, to be in this Chamber and to support majority practices. We were making it easier, because we know the needs of a government in its current obligations. We didn't reproach or denounce. We have simply imposed, with the conflict that we have caused, that we go to a normal legislative procedure and that the institutions should be heard and not the urgent procedure when there was no urgency. I respect your line and address your face with respect, because you are one of them - in fact, the news report also covers your position yesterday in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, if it is true - who respect that the national strategy only has two lines. This break with the European framework, which the Communist Party supports and with which we fully disagree - we are on the other side of this line - and the national strategy of adapting to the European Union's, our policy of involvement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Loverdo, please go to the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u75	I'll tell you what I want. That's all I've asked. Read.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u76	In your prototype you put the questions. We've already reached more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u77	I'm not taking a hint.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u78	You have exceeded all other colleagues today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u79	I do not accept the slightest suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u80	Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u81	I'll call it the way I want. Listen and read what I've asked. Well, we're just opposed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Loverde, if you're here to create tension, I'll inform you that we won't speak to that. You must testify to your opinion. Come on, let's get it over with. You're short. You have a dentist too. Let's give the floor to the Minister. There are other colleagues who are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u83	You're talking about my time. You are taking time off me, Mr President. I'll tell you what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u84	I'm not talking at all about your time. You have long exhausted your time. You know very well that the protology is two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u85	You talk to me in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u86	You took your time and for the best.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u87	You talk to me in time. That's why you're gonna give him to me properly, as I deserve him. So I say, Minister, that a number of issues relating to the country's foreign policy and European policy, despite the fact that they are not conducted by the official diplomacy of the country or by the Prime Minister, are being co-formulated. That's what I'm telling you in my timely question. And, as it does in a way of being smuggled and unacceptable, the country's foreign policy, the Minister of Finance - who yesterday said about an alliance between the countries of the South, said that there is a conspiracy between the countries of the South against Greece - and the energy issues that you manage, which you have a great influence on the economy of the country, on its European policy and on its foreign policy. You said a few weeks ago that Greece's conflict with German Europe is inevitable. In fact, you said it while the Prime Minister was in Germany or your statement is topical, and again the Prime Minister is trying to find a solution for the country with German Chancellor instead of the European process. Do you insist, Minister, on this line? Are you folding this option to think that the break for the country is inevitable and the conflict with German Europe is inevitable or is it inevitable, and after the latest developments of the current days, the same view? And if you are defending another policy, should we ask you here - I am doing so today - for this other policy that you are defending which has been allegedly 'financed' in Russia? In fact, you were surely at risk of talking about current financial flows as an advance on a allegedly unsuccessful pipeline. There's not even a deal. Do you bear in mind how our energy policies have been formulated within the European Union, but also as a country, in recent years, and whether what you say about Turkish Stream, have an influence on already designed energy policies for pipelines that you are putting at risk? This is the first part of my timely question. In my dentistry, I will return to the second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u88	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u89	I have absolutely no understanding of what Mr Loverd said. It ends in absolute and complete confusion. Of course, there's a red thread that breaths what you say, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u90	If you didn't understand, how is there a red thread?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u91	There's a red thread that drowns them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u92	You've got it all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u93	It's the fifth column. Do you keep in mind what a fifth column means?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u94	You're the most important representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u95	Now, I don't understand, you guys what...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u96	Don't interrupt. Respect a little bit of time. There are other colleagues who are waiting. Other colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u97	It's all paid here, Mr. Lafazani!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u98	I don't get into the process of who pays, what he pays. We have a process to follow, colleagues. The Minister has the floor. Don't interrupt. Mr. Loverdos will take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u99	There is a fifth convoy, which does not want to hear any criticism of the European establishment. There is a fifth convoy which acts as a servant of the creditors. There is a fifth convoy, in this country, of oligarchs, interconnected media and civil servants, who if he hears something called 'German Europe', he considers it to be a shot against the country. I am very sorry that you have come here to address this question. Some, then, have to write here a book that says about the conduct of the protector’s good policies towards his creditors and neo-colonialists. This book needs someone to write. This book will have two recipes: First, I observe and apply all the orders of creditors and, indeed, I turn them into a national need. Second rule: I support my creditors in the face of any criticism I object to an attack on the country. I am very sorry, therefore, that you have come here to the Chamber to ask me to apologise for what I have said and which serve the national interest and open up positive roads for the country. At the moment, the country is negotiating. We all want an agreement that is compatible, of course, with the popular verdict and the SYRIZA programme. I respect and support this effort. But, right now, you're coming to ask a timely question to apologize? Who can we apologize to? The ones who led the country to the crisis? The ones who put her in a vast memorial adventure with the domestic here in place? The country is currently on the cliff and we are trying in a thousand ways to set it up. You told me about energy policy, but I don't have time. If I may, Mr President - and the honourable Member has exceeded time - I should like to say a minute about energy policy. What do you have to say about energy policy? Of course, our energy policy is compatible with the Community framework. I didn't get it. What do you have to testify and ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u100	I'll tell you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u101	You know, here the rules of the European Union must otherwise apply to the powerful northern states and to the new colonies of the south. Well, no, Mr. Loverdos, there is no European rule that obliges us to break down and sell PPC! There is no European rule saying that IPTO must be sold out, that is to say, the networks must be sold out! There is no European rule saying that RAE can arbitrarily impose increases in electricity when electricity prices are high! There is no European rule prohibiting the transit of a pipeline from our country that will bring Russian gas! Some transatlantic or some centres in Europe may be annoyed by this, but what can we do about it? We must serve our national interest, our national benefit. We do not risk anything if we sign - and we are on the right track - agreement on the Russian gas pipeline. We're not risking anything at all. And much more, there are no other pipelines that go through our territory. We serve our national interest. Greece is an independent, sovereign country, it implements an independent policy, it is neither a protectorate of anyone nor a Banana. This is far beyond clear with our government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u103	Responded to the drachma fighter. The drachma supporter answered. He replied to the bankruptcy fan. He answered who defends the break. I'm glad to meet you. And I'm returning to you all the characterizations you've said. I speak politically, I don't characterize. You are the eminent supporter of the drachma within the government, which is why the criticism you have just made to the Prime Minister, in what contradicts what he says in Greece outside Greece, is the hardest thing that has been heard. You are the hardest judge of the Prime Minister's bilingualism on one side, that is, what he says outside Greece. And you're a sad minority in the country. Your plan, what you show in the election, and now as Minister as Plan B, for which you invite the government to prepare, will not pass. The political leadership of the country, and the Greek people too, will prevent it if you are fleeing to him again, as you are threatening us at this time. Whatever you do on the issue of what you are the main representative, in other words on the drachma, your battle is lost. Now we're going to the issues of your competence. You're the Minister of Energy, you're not the Minister of an energy source. As in practice, however, you are operating, we imagine that this is how you understand it. And energy has shaped policies, European and Greek, and I stress the national - Greek policies that have been united with the years, with our European policies, which we have also co-formulated. You are now a minister who has reversed the method of work we have had in recent years by the political leadership, namely Parliament and government, and an independent authority, the RAE here and the ACER for Europe. You are working against this methodology, whether it is European or Greek. In this sense, you are against both the country's foreign policy and its European policy. You don't understand? I think the question is rhetorical. Obviously, you understand that, but this view of you really is consistently assembled with your view of drachma. I repeat, you are the main representative at the place of this opinion and all the unscrupulous interests behind it. Not consciously, of course, but politically assembled. Secondly, you are ignoring a fact that is very serious and real. EUR 7.5 billion has been invested in the energy-related private sector, tens of thousands of direct or indirect jobs. As far as they are concerned, you are unprecedentedly contemptuous. So I ask you what you are saying about future privatisations in the field of energy and, more generally, in the field of wider privatisation is also related to what you have in mind for already completed investments in the sector, are you hostile to them? As long as you are in this position - I hope very little - will you be a Minister who will support this or will you turn against it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u105	This is not about questioning, but about a misconduct by Mr. Loverdos, a misconduct of guilt. Because in his face we see Greece of the memorials, Greece that brought us to this mess, in this crisis. You are co-responsible for being Minister to governments that have led the country to the crisis, and at the same time you are co-responsible, as Minister, for dismantling the area of work, education and health. You're addressing me and you're looking to find...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u106	You did not vote for a single drug reduction! You are against all price reductions!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u107	You have addressed yourself and you will get a personal answer. You are co-responsible, associate and accomplice to the fate of this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u108	You're a maintenance fan...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Loverdo, don't interrupt! Minister, keep going, don't enter into dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u110	When you talk personally, you should have the strength and patience to get a personal response.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u111	I answer what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u112	Take it easy. You're looking to see who I'm a fan and throw the ball in the platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u113	I'm not looking, you're a fan!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u114	Of course I'm a fan! I'm a fan of my country, I'm a fan of Greece, I'm a fan of the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u115	The drachma!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u116	I am a supporter of the defence of our national interest, I am a supporter of the defence of the public interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u117	The drachma!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u118	Did you, at the moment, make a proclamation of PPC's fragmentation and sale, and do you call that European policy? Is that what Europe says about Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u119	It is European policy, yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u120	That's what the memos say, Mr. Loverdos! That's what the memorials say, which you signed and applied. And you want to dismantle the energy sector, as we come to support this case. You're talking about RAE. RAE certainly needs to be compatible with the Community framework, but there is no Community framework to say that RAE is overgovernment in that country, that RAE will define government policy, that RAE will serve private interests against the public! There is no institutional direction on the part of the European Union. We will therefore defend popular sovereignty, defend the public interest, defend the people's interests. At the moment, the country is fighting a great battle. It is negotiated, with the support of the Greek people, to achieve an agreement compatible, as I said, with the popular verdict and our programme. This is our direction and our direction is that we want another Europe, a different Europe, without domination and ratification. We want a Europe of convergence, not a Europe of division. We want a Europe of peoples and workers, not a Europe of big capital and major creditors. We do not want a Europe with the speeds of the strong and newly populated countries. We do not want this Europe. This Europe is the Europe you have served for so many years. This Europe you have come to defend in this Chamber. This Europe must change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u121	And now it's changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u122	Of course it will. Be sure it will change! And you can be certain that SYRIZA, the government, in which we participate and are the body of our party, will do everything it can to change the course of things. And it's going to change it once. The country will stand up and open up new, progressive roads with a socialist horizon. Be sure of this, because that is the interests of our country, that is the interest of the European peoples, that is the interest in all the peoples of Europe today. And when I talk to Europe, it is not only the EU, there are countries outside the EU, which are not in isolation and have the right to have a role and a say in the European area. We will not rule out Russia and Russian gas because of its source and origin. We want our country to be pluralistic, upgraded, international energy hub. Because that is what serves our national interests, that is our benefit and in this direction we are moving. And this is recognized today by the entire Greek people, together with the Greek people, who understands that we are doing an independent, multidimensional energy policy, which will have positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are now entering the second question under number 119/20-4-2015 of the Second-cycle question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the planned installation of two private plants for the production of electricity, with biomass burning, in the area of the Municipal Community of Royals of the Municipality of Thermi of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are aware of the design for the construction of two power plants in the Basilic region, near 498 KW each. It is also well known that we are currently discussing - and that is why the opinion of the actors in the region has also been requested - the approval of environmental impact studies. I am also in a position to know that a committee of the people of the region has been visited and I think it is a given that you cannot overcome, because it is given the vertical opposition of the people of the region to these investments. I would remind you that both the local council of the municipal community of Basilica and unanimously the municipal council of the Municipality of Thermi of Thessaloniki, and the people themselves, with a series of mobilisations throughout the past period and with a gathering of signatures, have shown this contrast. We, Minister, do not call on you because you are pursuing an energy policy that is compatible with the rules of the European Union. That's barely the problem. Because the basic principle of this European Union's energy policy is further liberalisation of the energy market and you agree and implement this policy. It is this policy, which not only creates but also exacerbates the problems of the people's strata. Because even a public PPC, as you mentioned earlier, will operate within the framework of today's economic development, with private economic criteria, alongside private individuals operating in the industry and for the benefit of their own. And an energy hub - if it becomes our country - will not be in the interests of the country in general and vaguely, but in the interests of the great interests of that country, and this is also demonstrated by the specific issue that we are discussing. This investment further promotes the liberalisation of the energy market, i.e. producing electricity in different ways in the past, now and by burning biogas. It is a policy within the European Union, and we are asking whether you will really take into account the will of the people of the region or whether you will continue with this anti-popular policy, that is to say, to produce energy from private individuals. On the other hand, this policy has a number of effects on both the environment and the economy in general. As I do not have time to do so, I would like to remind you that this investment is being made at the expense of the development of other sectors in the region, which commits agricultural land for organic farming and, of course, for livestock production. High productivity land in the area. Finally, there are serious consequences for the environment, since by smuggling such investments as biogas production, and indeed the production of 'SYNGAS' - another biogas and another 'SYNGAS' - is to have the benefits of this biogas production. However, it needs to be incorporated into other environmental legislation, which would be forbidden for this investment. The question is therefore specific and that is what the people of the region expect: it will or will not be the investment in question and whether or not these environmental studies will be approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. The Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you for your question, Mr Colleague, and for the completeness of its documentation. I would like to say to you that the institutional framework for the licensing of biomass power plants is, in our opinion, completely inadequate and in many respects unclear and perforated, leaving gaps and contradictions that benefit profitable electricity production investments, which can be beneficial to private interests, but often are burdening the environment, burdening local economies and societies and not offering employment. Our Ministry has already started working on changing this institutional framework of legislation and ministerial decisions to make it beneficial to our economy and the environment. This review should take serious account, in our view, of the fact that the thermal biomass processes for the production of electricity are often caused by gaseous and solid waste, some of which are dangerous, and also of dangerous liquid waste being discharged. It follows, therefore, that electricity generation from biomass is not just a form of RES, renewable energy, wind or solar, but often similar to an installation for energy recovery of waste. We want to produce electricity from biomass but in good conditions, in good conditions and with a positive impact balance. As far as the two planned power plants with biomass combustion in the Basilica of the Municipality of Thermi are concerned, I have formed an extremely negative picture. Recently I have had the opportunity to meet with the Ministry with numerous representatives of the community of royals and other actors in the region. I found the citizens' generalised reaction to these biomass investments and I think that this reaction is absolutely justified. It is justified for many reasons and let me mention some of them. Firstly, because we have a power plant in packs of two units to probably bypass this incomplete regulation. Secondly, because pollution which, apparently, will be caused by these two units will be particularly burdensome for the agricultural and livestock production of the area that supports its economy. Thirdly, because it appears that the raw material of the biomass plants will probably be imported, while the employment that will offer almost zero. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Fourthly, because the two units are located relatively close to the settlement and to areas of particularly high agricultural productivity, which is not particularly beneficial. For all these reasons - perhaps others too - I think that these two units do not serve the Basilic region at all, which, as you said, recognises the Municipality of Thermi, who unanimously gave a negative opinion. Of course, the competence for authorisation and adoption of decisions to approve environmental conditions, according to this institutional framework that we want to change, is not the Ministry but the services of decentralised administration of Macedonia - Thrace. However, our Ministry - and I personally - will make every use of legal means to prevent the construction of the two specific units in Basilica. I stress: All legal means to prevent the construction of these two specific units in Basil. We have such a possibility, much more so that services of the decentralised administration of Macedonia - Thrace have asked our Ministry questions and are asking for guidance on the implementation of the relevant institutional framework and on their actions in relation to many investments in biomass but in particular these two units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I would like to speak on a very important point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u128	To end the timely and answer - second language of the Minister, and I will give you the floor. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened carefully to your reply. Of course you will study, see how you change and what possibilities you have, without, of course, specifying a certain period of time, legislation in relation to the licensing of such undertakings. You agree that residents are right. You have mentioned a number of reasons and you will use all the legal means - I stress it too - to prevent this investment. But I do not know whether the legal means which you call for - I do not know what you have in mind - will be prevented even in a short period of time - because it must be done - the creation of these investments. And I've been saying that, because I know the questions that the decentralized administration has asked for over a month, twice. However, he did not take these questions. So one side of the issue is that your Ministry should immediately deal with this issue. Of course, it is not the only one he is concerned with, but he has to deal more specifically. The second point I want to make is something you have not raised at all, Minister. Because you said in your answer that you are in favour of producing biomass electricity, the issue is from whom and to whose benefit. I also mentioned a number of issues in my prototype. You have repeatedly stated that you are in favour of development - more generally I am now speaking. But growth is not neutral. The issue is from whom it is and to whose benefit this development is being made. And the particular production of electricity by private individuals is only to ensure the profitability of these businesses fully and at the same time to charge the cost to the people's backs by increasing PPC's tariffs. Because we all know that there is the special fee, the former RES, renewable energy sources, that is, that ensures this profitability in the major business groups that are active in the industry, and the people are actually paying the broken ones. Finally, I want to say this in relation to the changes you are planning in the legislation. Such changes have been made in recent years in our country. The laws and regulations, of course, express particular interests - and above all the interests of the class of authority in the country. Laws are, of course, unfounded and change according to the relationships that exist every time. But the predominant thing is that they express the interests of the class of power, both at the level of the economy and at the level of politics. So there is a question, no matter how this legislation is to be formulated. Today, there are no mechanisms to control such legislation. The Services of the Region of Central Macedonia have been completely depreciated and subordinated. In other words, they cannot carry out any effective control. In practice this is given to private environmental inspectors. There are too many issues here too. So you need to see this side, too. Finally, our opinion is as follows. Such issues are resolved to the benefit of the people, because from this point of view we as a communist party are approaching the problem. Such issues are resolved, when raw materials, means of production, transmission and distribution networks are social state property, so that it also has responsibility for the planning and management of such growth in the benefit of the people, an exclusively single state energy body, which will be a mechanism of popular power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u131	Thank you for your comments, many of which I agree with. I also agreed on my prototype. These are other things, of course, to which we have another kind of disagreement, a wider one. The point is that we have found an institutional framework for the production of biomass electricity, which I have described as extremely negative and I would say perforated. We are seeking to change it and we will change it soon. We will have an institutional framework, which I think will be more beneficial to local economies, to protect the environment and, of course, to the health of citizens and to the benefit of electricity in our country. We will do that and you will be sure that we will go ahead with it. One is the point, but I was not alone in it. I also said that for these two investments we are negative. We have a negative image from the Ministry side. If you want, the negative picture of these two investments I have formed it personally from my contact with the inhabitants and representatives of the people of the region. I have said in detail why we are negative on these two investments. Of course, it is not easy for me to make a decision that violates the relevant legislation. I can't do that. In the context of this legislation, however, there is much room for the Ministry to move to prevent these two investments. I also stressed this because much more decentralised administrations have been difficult to license because of the ambiguities of the relevant legislation and have been addressed to our Ministry. From our ministry, they will get answers like this, which will be dissuasive of these investments. Now, of course, we are not generally talking about biomass and biomass electricity investments. This is a broader issue, to which we are not opposed for reasons of principle. As I have said, however, there must be a framework, conditions and rules for these biomass electricity investments to be beneficial. That is what we are going to pursue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty students and students and two educational sessions from the 4th High School of Neapolis Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor has been requested by the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Christos Pappas. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u133	I will be brief, Mr President. In accordance with your programme before you, which has been distributed to my fellow Members, the number of Members would be discussed here at the moment. Question No 107 by our Member, Ilias Kassiris, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Lafasanis. We were amazed to see from our parliamentary group's office and the closed television circuit that Mr Lafazanis is responding today because we had other information. Last night, his private call was called to the Parliamentary Group's office and he told us that Mr Cassidy's question would not be discussed. So we were left with the impression that the Minister had an unsuccessful obligation and would not be here today. On the contrary, we see him in the Chamber. So, Mr President, you must point out to the Minister that he cannot answer any questions he wishes. If he is in Parliament, he should answer all representatives of the nation. Finally, I would like to say that the Minister must distinguish his roles. Here, he is a representative of the government, of the executive and has an obligation and a duty to respond to the representatives of the legislative authority. Mr. Lafazanis, here you are as Minister, you are not a representative or columnist of "Iscra" or a red competitor of the former Soviet Union. Whatever trick you think, whatever trick you invent, you are judged by the Greek people. Whatever the trick you do to fade the voice of the nationalists, it won't pass. You know, unfairness doesn't want it either. I'm telling you this so we can get to know each other and not tell us about...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Pappa, you're done. Thank you. Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer because this was the case on a point of order. That was followed. We have announced that the question is not being discussed. Please give an answer. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Colleague, I will not deal with your designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u136	We've heard too much of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u137	I won't. I overlook them because the conversation would go a long way, but I think you're getting the dog from Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Loverdos pulled me out of the drachma fan, you red hustler and fan of the Soviet Union. We're doing good today. I mean, I get a lot of credit. In any case, the question is that, with the timely question you tabled, you have had two questions on which government policy is under way and which are of a delicate nature. That is why I said that I could not answer today and I had the opportunity for the next week at least to give you an answer. I do not deny to answer in general any party in this House, regardless of whether it separates us political and ideological abyss
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u138	No relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u139	I am in favour of observing the Rules of Procedure, as it has been voted on and as foreseen. I don't know if my secretary or on behalf of this House has contacted me, maybe my position has not been properly transferred.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u140	Your secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u141	I therefore reserve in a year which will be short and immediate, with a fuller picture and developments in the matters you ask me to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Lafasan. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A single debate on the principle, Articles and all of the draft law: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content of 20 April 2015 ‘Additional regulation for the transfer of cash from the General Government to investment in the Bank of Greece’ (A φ 41)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 22 April 2015 on the draft law at a meeting. Today's sitting will discuss the bill on principle and on the articles as one section on the basis of Articles 44(1) of the Constitution and 113 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The list of speakers is based on Rule 96(1) of the Rules of Procedure from the beginning of the debate and until the end of the speech by the rapporteurs. The Members of the House shall have the right to speak and, if they so request, until the end of the debate on the basis of Rule 96(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Letters have been sent to the Bureau by the parliamentary groups. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group informs us that in the plenary debate of 24 April 2015 on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law: "Repeal of the Act of Legislation of 20 April 2015 "Additional regulation for the transfer of cash from the General Government Institutions to the Bank of Greece" (A-41)", rapporteur from New Democracy is appointed MP II Athens Mr. Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou. Also, by the Group of the People's League - Golden Dawn, we are informed that at the plenary session on the agenda the only debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Act of Legislative Content of 20 April 2015 "Additional arrangement for the transfer of cash to the Bank of Greece for investment" (A'41) is defined as a special speaker, MP Argolidas Georgios Galeos and Parliamentary spokesperson, MP II of Athens Mr.Ilias Panagiotaros. From the Party's Group of Parliament Potami, they inform us that during the debate in the House of Parliament of the Act of Legislative Content "Additional regulation for the transfer of cash available to the General Government Institutions to be invested in the Bank of Greece", Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis and special speaker, Mr. Kyriakos Charakides, is appointed. Also, by the Greek Parliamentary Group of Independents, they inform us that in the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Principle of 20 April 2015 of an Act of Legislative Content "Additional regulation for the transfer of cash to be invested by the General Government Institutions for investment in the Bank of Greece", a special speaker is Mr Dimitrios Kammenos and as a parliamentary representative, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos. Also, the Group of the Communist Party of Greece is designated as a special speaker, Athanasios Vardalis. Finally, the PASOK Parliamentary Group defines as a special speaker, Mr Andreas Loverdes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I too would like to raise an incidental issue before the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u146	Mr Mitsotakis, you have the floor and immediately after Mr Theocharis. Wait a minute, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u147	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Mr President, I must point out to the House, which I have also mentioned in the Conference of Presidents, that unfortunately there is a systematic violation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure stipulates very clearly, Mr President and Minister, as a representative of the Government, that "the plenary session of the House meets three times a week, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, for the legislative work to be carried out twice a week, on Monday and Friday, on the exercise of parliamentary control". [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Mr President and Mr Minister, has been violated and systematically violated. We understand that there may be an exceptional need to justify planning legislative work, but exceptionally. That is why we agreed to hold the debate today, when we realised that there are international developments and that the government may want the legislative act to have been passed and that the Eurogroup will have to take a stand. But, Mr President, there is absolutely no reason why legislative work should be planned on Monday and not on Tuesday. I want to be quite clear: Parliament's Rules of Procedure define the way this House operates. The majority of the Conference of Presidents cannot be violated by reference to the fact that there is just a majority. The Rules of Procedure and committee deadlines are systematically violated. We have, Minister, today, a second reading of Mr Katrugalos' bill within two days of the previous debate. But that's not what the Rules of Procedure stipulate. This is called majority tyranny. The reason for the Rules of Procedure is precisely that they defend minority rights in this way. If the Conference of Presidents is to take decisions by majority vote and violate the Rules of Procedure every time, then this Rules of Procedure, Mr President, have absolutely no reason to exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Parliamentary Representative, democracies run by majority procedures. You were also present at the Conference of Presidents, where on both issues, which you raised, a majority decision was taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u149	Will the Constitution be abolished by a majority, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u150	I don't consent to that, Mr. Mitsotakis. You have taken the floor and decided on today's sitting and on Monday's sitting. But, by majority vote, the peoples decide. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the incident and the continuation of the debate, I would also like to say a few words on the subject raised by Mr Mitsotakis. It is clear that the last Conference of Presidents was held at the Government's request. The President of the Parliament had a few hours on the Greek territory, coming from Rome and going to Armenia and spent them first going to Maximos, where he was ordered to take this debate on Friday. He thus violated articles of the Rules of Procedure of the House, such as paragraph 91(7) which states that "The report of the Standing Committee is distributed to Members at least two days before the first session of the Parliament set for discussion of the draft law or proposed law". It is clear that last night the work and the report of the committee were completed and therefore many articles in the Rules of Procedure were violated, some of which Mr Mitsotakis said, even to be a legislative meeting in plenary day Friday, which is not a day of legislative work. We understand and understand the importance of the government to make sure that there is the vote on this act of legislation, which, I am sure, has already had legal consequences, already the bodies comply with this act, so there is no question of it being completed today. Obviously, there is some study which has to do with agreements with the European partners. Now I would like to go to the inaugural point I make. I have the relevant document and I will give it to you. As far as the debate is concerned, pursuant to Rule 36(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which states - I read it out so that there is no misunderstanding - there is no misunderstanding: 'With the exception of urgency, the meetings of the Standing Committees should not coincide with meetings of Parliament and the Holiday Division of the Parliament when matters of their competence are discussed'. This is the second time this has happened. On 17 April we had a plenary at 12 noon, and at the same time we had a meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, which coincided with the debate in plenary. Today the same is happening with the Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice. I think the committee title alone is enough to understand. We are talking about the reserves of public bodies and the Committee on Civil Service, which is also responsible for this issue, is meeting at the same time. The importance of the government I mentioned earlier, like Mr Mitsotakis, to have the debate in plenary today, did not mean that it could not be better planned and that Members should not have to choose between the committee and the plenary. The President, when we pointed out this issue on 17 April, gave assurances that this is a very serious issue, that it falls within the proper planning of Parliament's work and that it would not happen again. And yet it has been a week - if I am not mistaken - and we are in the same position again. We would ask that this issue be resolved and that we do not have such wrong planning. Non-legal planning affects the debate and decision taken in plenary on the subject of the agenda you have read, since Members of the Committee on Civil Service and Justice cannot attend this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. We will all contribute to a more operational Parliament. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u153	It is also evident from today's process that the current SYRIZA - ANEL government continues not only in its content but also in its form and in practice, the work of the previous governments. By legislative acts, the governments of New Democracy and PASOK also legislated by legislative acts and the current government of SYRIZA - ANEL. From this point of view, we say very clearly that this act of legislation, but also the previous one, which the government has still not dared to bring it and debate in Parliament and with various pretexts, postpones - and we are talking about regulation by means of a legislative act which deletes fines from tax and customs infringements, so we are talking about major economic scandals and we must explain why the government is late and how to legislate - to withdraw. Otherwise, if the government does not do so, we will raise a matter of roll-call voting in today's procedure. And of course, the rest of the opposition parties, the New Democracy and the PASOK, must leave the crocodile tears for the way this House operates because they did the same when they were in the majority. Mr President, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you cannot claim that, because this is the case, the majority of us are writing to the oldest of our footwear, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. We, of course, are the last to defend the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. Finally, one comment. It seems that the President is sitting and releasing the 'Black Paper' and adding the new chapters today, based on the current government's practice regarding its attitude to a number of issues relating to 'democratic' procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u154	Mr Panayotus has requested the floor for a moment. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u155	I will not go into the issues relating to the functioning of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I had asked for the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u157	I have noted you, Mr. Kutsuko. It's the Minister's lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u158	The Conference of Presidents, the deadlines, the procedures are in no way relevant to my powers and my current role. I would, however, like to refer to the question raised by Mr Karathanasopoulos, because it is important not to get involved. First of all, you should be aware that the previous act concerning the National Sugar Industry will be discussed in the next few days in the House under the normal procedure. I tell you officially, you can discuss this. There is no intention of not having the debate. It was necessary and then it was done that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u159	Well, then the wedding will be over, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u160	I don't know about the wedding, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u161	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u162	I shall tell you this, and I shall tell you that this act is clear that it is discussed as a regular draft law on substance. We had a meeting with the committee. We had a conversation with the agencies. We had informed the institutions and explained that one reason why no legislative debate was taking place at the outset on the issue we are discussing today is that there was no urgent draft legislation at the beginning of the week and we wanted this year to start producing actions by means of the legislative act. We have explained that in committee too. It's all transparent, it's all open. It is being discussed today as a regular bill. I'd be beg...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u163	Not normal. At a meeting, it's not normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u164	I mean in the sense of procedures and substance. So, Mr Karathanasopoulos, do not put in the same balance intentions, which have existed for years, with acts of legislation that have not been in existence for months and which have been subject to very serious strategic issues, with those acts that we are obviously able to judge - they have been strictly necessary in time alone. There is no other dimension of concealment or opacity. This is as clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment on what Mr Mitsotakis said. He was right to talk about majority tyranny. But I would like to stress that during the previous sessions, when the New Democracy and the PASOK had the majority, they brought photographic laws to the detriment of the Golden Dawn, so that the funding of our party can be suspended. This has been voted by the overwhelming majority of Parliament, so that the Golden Dawn cannot carry out an equal political struggle. Elections took place. All parties had hundreds of thousands, millions at their disposal. The Golden Dawn did not have one euro, yet we are the third political force. I would like to remind Mr Mitsotakis and the House that immunity has been lifted, which were completely unconstitutional...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u167	Is that a procedural matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u168	...the weight of Members of the Golden Dawn and then fell into the hands of Babi and the others, so that they could confiscate Golden Dawn MPs without any charge on the substance. Let me remind you of everything that happened in the previous session. I would remind the world of what happened during previous sessions, where the majority did what it wanted to do on the substance of the matter. This does not mean that you should continue at this part-session, that is, to change the Rules of Procedure at once, as other Members and parliamentary representatives have already said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor. Then Mr. Nikolaopoulos, Mr. Balauras, Mr. Vorides... Ten o'clock at night, we'll finish the process! Let's be brief. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I do not understand why you remind the House that we will be afflicted, while I am only speaking on procedural matters, while you have given the floor to the Minister beforehand and referred to fundamental issues. You have a point of order to respect the procedure and only to remain in the proceedings. I therefore raise three points.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u171	Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u172	The first point is that we agreed as PASOK to come today, in this procedure which does not obey any of the Rules of Procedure - in understanding the need that the government has given us - and to discuss the legislative act in spite of the fact that we are firmly opposed to it, which we will develop, both by our rapporteur and by the other speakers of PASOK, in the face of this practice of legislative content. This does not mean that the majority has the possibility of circumventing the Rules of Procedure, despite the fact that we called on the President of the Parliament and the majority Members who have shown that we have no legislative work on Monday. I should also like to remind you of what Mr Theocharis has said earlier, and the Rule of Procedure which does not allow a plenary and a committee with the same subject is also being circumvented. So the first point I raise is to the Bureau. Respect not us but the majority. The second issue, Mr President, is as follows: there is a legislative act pending from 27 March and the time is exhausted for Parliament to ratify it. By taking the floor earlier, Mr. Voutsis told us he would come in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u173	It is not a point of order, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u174	So I say that, when it comes to the next few days, to the limits of time, perhaps the arguments we are going to put forward and the figures we will be present could prevent the vote on the act giving fines to systematic tax-payers and tax-payers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u175	That is not a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u176	It's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u177	Finish it. Let the speaker finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, you are representing the Bureau. The Bureau has to tell us when it will be voted on because it was planned. Ladies and gentlemen, do not rush. This early rulership won't do you any good. Listen. A discussion of the act was scheduled last week and Mr Lafazanis postponed it, on the pretext that he had high-level meetings. He's doing well and he's gonna make it work, but Mr. Lafazanis has three Deputys! The second issue is that. The third issue, Mr President, is this: we will be entering into the debate and we will also raise the issues of manifest unconstitutionalism. The President of the House in her programme statements said that this House, under its presidency, will not have acts of legislation that do not fulfil the constitutional requirements. Therefore, Mr President, you who now represent the President and the Bureau must tell us that you have accepted that this act is a constitutional act to enter it for debate, otherwise you are completely inconsistent!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u179	You've heard. You have all referred to the majority, but you forget that the modern miracles and tragedies of the people are due to majorities. Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, these procedures are to be cut off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u181	Here you go, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, those here who are interested in following the positions of the parliamentary representatives of the opposition parties see the contradictions which take place within this very minimum time of the first interventions. The previous colleague, when suggesting that we should be confined to the procedural part and to what Mr Mitsotakis has said, has also gone to other issues. Let it be. Now, what's this effort? What is the service of all this debate, which is done and which has precedes it? Mr Mitsotakis participated in the Conference of Presidents. The arguments have been heard. We have come to the conclusion that the process will be taking place today. Why are we still coming here? To be forced to say, a practice that has been adopted in the past, when the government or the majority at the time, again comes before us? Mr President, I think we should start the debate, because in a day when the Greek people are restrained but optimisticly heard that a first agreement is coming, which seems to resolve, will relax the dolphin. It is precisely the subject that we are going to discuss today that comes to strengthen this national effort, which the new government is doing. So don't be late. Let us also send out the appropriate message and give those weapons which the Greek people - I think - are calling, at this time, for us to show ourselves. I am sure that both the regional and mayors will have received this message sent by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u184	Mayor Patras told you more, Nikos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u185	I said, for the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u186	But the mayor told you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u187	Please don't interrupt. Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, we are all responsible for stopping the theater of irrationality being played, when they have no arguments about the substance of saying different things in here. Mr President, I was very impressed by Mr Theocharis' position from Potami, as well as Mr Koutsukou from PASOK - particularly the first, Mr Theocharis - as if he were not in the committee that we decided on at the plenary sitting together, I repeat, unanimously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u189	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u190	That's why Mr. Mitsotakis, when he said some krone, then he picked it up. We have all decided unanimously to hold a plenary sitting today and to proceed with the process of ratification of the legislative act.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u191	Don't give me that! We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u192	Excuse me, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u193	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u194	You may have reacted but throughout the whole debate on this issue you were ahead of both the River and the New Democracy and from the PASOK and the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Balaura, continue and complete, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u196	So let us stop this process, which is tending, Mr President, and there is also the Bureau's responsibility - that we now have a system of three or four hours to discuss issues, allegedly, without substance. We must finally stop this and there is time, please, for the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u199	It's not personal now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u200	Here, Mr Theochari, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, one issue has been raised. I do not want to go into the issues of the Conference of Presidents, but Mr Balaourras is forcing me, as he refers to the position of the river during the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u202	Is that a personal question? Why does he take the floor on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u203	Go on, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u204	We did not consent to the committee for a meeting on Friday. Furthermore, it is not a matter of the committee's competence, but of the Conference of Presidents, and this is confirmed by the fact that in the Conference of Presidents the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Affairs said there was an agreement on Monday or even Tuesday on the legislative act. However, since I did not see the Bureau touching on the fact that I put the incident, I would ask that you expressly consult with Mr Kritsatakis, who chairs the Committee on Civil Liberties, Civil Liberties and Justice, to postpone the committee meeting - I learn that it is a matter that has also been raised in committee - so that Members can come to discuss this issue in plenary, an act of legislation which is very important, very substantial, demonstrates the despair and poverty of the government at the moment and the difficulty of negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u205	Oh, boy! Oh, my God, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u206	We must ask all Members present and I would ask for this understanding to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u207	You raised a matter concerning the committee itself. We are in plenary - it concerns the committee after you have put it - the incident has been examined, your views have been announced, and the matter has therefore also been resolved, which halfway through, Mr Theochra, has been raised in the Conference of Presidents, other committees, the Bureau has examined the incidents, and the debate has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u209	Did you ask for the floor? On what subject, Mr Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u210	On the issue of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u211	According to Rule 100, 'the President of Parliament and each Member of the Government may request that the House give its opinion on, etc.'. Here, Mr Voridis, you have the floor on unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. So today we are talking about this act of legislation before this House. This legislative act regulates the issue as follows: ‘I am sure the general government is required - Mr President, I stress - to deposit their cash assets and transfer their funds to cash management accounts held by the Bank of Greece’. Mr President, according to Article 102(2) of the Constitution, "The local authorities have administrative and financial autonomy". Pursuant to Article 102(4) of the Constitution: ‘The State shall exercise control over local government bodies consisting solely of legal control and shall not prevent their initiative and free action’. Pursuant to Article 102(5) of the Constitution: ‘The State shall take the legislative, regulatory and budgetary measures necessary to ensure the financial autonomy and resources necessary for the fulfilment of the mission and the exercise of the powers of local authorities while ensuring transparency in the management of such resources’. In accordance with Article 16(5) of the Constitution, ‘higher education is provided exclusively by institutions which are legal entities governed by public law with full self-government’. According to Article 17(1) of the Constitution: ‘The property is protected by the State, but the rights resulting therefrom cannot be exercised at the expense of the general interest’. I think it is absolutely obvious, Mr President, that this act of legislation directly infringes these constitutional provisions. And I would like to make it clear that it is quite obvious that it is the question of compensation fees. This is not even a question of granting the state budget. We're talking about sums here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u213	Excluded...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u214	Don't be in a hurry. What's your hurry? I've got it, I'll tell you everything about the exception, don't rush. You know, I don't make such obvious arguments myself. Let me have a minute. I am therefore saying that, obviously, for the remuneration fees - not just for the compensation fees - and most importantly for the remuneration fees, the citizens pay the sums for the service provided by the OTAs. The government presides, because the Minister said yesterday that: "But we will exempt the fees." That's what the Minister said. Firstly, the act of legislation, as it is introduced, applies from 17 March.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u215	Retrospectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u216	The municipalities therefore have an obligation, if they are imported with retroactive effect, from 17 March. Therefore, there is already a question of unconstitutionality, regardless of whether or not later by law - not now - you change the regulation. Secondly, regardless of retroactiveness, the act of legislation applies once it has been signed by the President of the Republic and enters into force, regardless of its subsequent change. So there is unconstitutionalism all this time. So there is unconstitutionalism all this time and until its legislative change, which means, essentially, that it is abolished by law. Why if you are going to change, why change the act of legislation? Bring a law that will change it. In fact, the question of fees is still open, and unconstitutionality is straight. One is that. Secondly, as unconstitutionalism is obvious - I come and speak politically - what do you want it for? It is not going to apply. Bring the legal provision that you want when you're ready. It doesn't make any sense now. Thirdly, Mr President, on this issue, it is this: why does the legislative act speak? He's talking about cash. How will cash flow from the reward fees in fact be distinguished? And what, in fact, are the cash that needs to be attributed in practice and how are these distinguished and who determines the cash needs of the municipality? Therefore, for completely practical reasons, the operation is becoming inappropriate. These reasons come together and are obviously associated with the universities - obviously there is a clear and unsatisfactory discussion - and most importantly for these specific research funds, which are also not excluded. So here, ladies and gentlemen, there cannot be any doubt about the unconstitutionality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But allow me two more thoughts on the emergency situation. What's the emergency? Is there an emergency situation, when the emergency situation is formed, is it assumed, on 17 March - the time of the recurring - but is the act adopted on 20 April? A month of emergency? Secondly, if the extraordinary situation occurred on 17 March, how could there not have been any legislative intervention throughout this period normally, rather than coming on 20 April with the act of legislative content? Also, when does the emergency end? What is the time of expiry that does not justify the measure? Because if the need for the measure is stable, is it the government's legislative choice, then what is the need for the legislative measure? Then he comes with normal legislation. Mr Minister, in order to reach agreement, do not take credit you are not entitled to. The Government has introduced the act into the committee to be discussed in the urgent procedure. Parliament rejected the proposal, not the government! We, all of us, rejected your suggestion of urgency. This procedure we are following is not the normal procedure. It is the interim procedure, it is not the broadest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u217	It's against the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u218	So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a major issue of unconstitutionality. There's no way she's getting away. And you will allow me to read something - and I close with it - which it insists on does not seem to anyone that we are making unconstitutionalism about unconstitutionality, so only to raise issues. I am recognizing a document from the Bank of Greece - I will submit it for the Minutes, Mr President - on 10 March 2015. It is signed by Mr Michael Michalopoulou, who is Director. ‘It is self-evident that the risk posed by the public bodies participating in the relevant property group is to suffer damage from any reason that I have failed to comply, in particular, with the Greek State’s obligations under the above-mentioned transactions and in particular in time or incompletely or inconsistently with the Greek State’s obligations under the above-mentioned transactions’. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The danger is there, it's real. The process is unconstitutional. Money is being taken, because I heard yesterday the argument 'State here and state there'. There's no state here and there. The Constitution distinguishes and protects, for the reasons that that constitutional legislature judged, the self-interest of both universities and self-government. And the reason is simple. Even when money is transferred from the budget, the state is now alienating from this property, becoming part of the property of OTA or the university, which is the right instrument - says the constitutional legislature - to use it away from state interventions. Mr President, I think this is a clear matter. I am addressing the sensitivity of all and colleagues in the government majority, who have been sensitive to the process of this legislation over the last few years, but also to the issues of unconstitutionality. The same sensitivity that they showed until yesterday, fighting for compliance with the Constitution, that they themselves must now observe, even though it is the government that supports this anti-constitutional legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being followed from the top Western theories, after it has been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, a group of six French students. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The right to speak after all is the opposite, namely Mr Philis, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or the Parliamentary Representatives and the Ministers responsible, each for five minutes. Mr. Friends has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate does indeed show that the climate in this House has changed. I welcome Mr Vorides' sensitivity to defend the Constitution within the House, even if he is in the wrong way defending it, but that is the different viewpoint we have. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I will explain why the objection of unconstitutionality does not apply. We have also heard from a diverse constitutionalist, Mr Loverdos, to develop further reasons for unconstitutionalism. I do not know whether he will repeat them today at the plenary session. However, we want to say that it was not possible to proceed with an anti-constitutional procedure, given not the sensitivity that we had in the past but also the sensitivity that we still have to defend the Constitution and other rights of citizens. Among them is the government's commitment to pay timely wages and pensions, and that is, if you like, the unforeseen and urgent need for the government today - I stress the word 'necessary' - to bring this act of legislative content into discussion. With this act we do not reduce pensions, we do not dismantle labour rights, we do not give banks to bankers who went bankrupt, as was the case with the series of legislative acts that you submitted to Parliament in the previous period. On the contrary, we defend people's rights and obligations. The legislative act is similar to the law, so it itself has the possibility of retroactive regulation, provided that it does not concern matters of taxation or penalties, criminal law, etc. Therefore, there is no today - and there has never been - problem of unconstitutionality with the retroactive force that has been mentioned. From a rough study of the life and state of the previous government, we find that at least twice - by legislative acts 4080/2012 and 4088 - there is retroactive force in legislative acts. There is therefore no problem either from the constitutional order or from the functioning of the House. Secondly, with the contents of the act of legislation, there is no change in the way that is unforeseen, that the safety is not violated or that the interests of third parties are not affected. On the contrary, the general government agencies’ cash flows carried over to the Bank of Greece by means of a fixed take-over procedure and a guaranteed 2,5% interest rate are fully guaranteed. Therefore, there is no injury to the general government bodies. Municipalities and regions retain the inconsistent claim on their resources. Even if we assume that the self-sufficiency which you present under Article 102(2) of the Constitution is affected, this is temporary and is due to reasons of public interest, such as ensuring the financial flows of the public in order to serve wages and pensions. Even if... This is therefore an urgent and unforeseen need, as is laid down in legislative acts. Even if we accept that this is an insult, it is justified, as I repeat it is temporary and obeys in the greater interest - to use me - and you will allow me - an abusive excuse put forward by your government and accepted by the Council of State in the previous period on budgetary consolidation. So from a case-law point of view, like the decision of the Council of State, we have a strengthening of our initiative. On the issue of legacy, because this has been heard in committee, it is clear that it does not change the purpose of the legacy but, under the conditions described in the arrangement, its banking management. There's no insult there either. Finally, there was a clarification from the Minister responsible yesterday, which restores possible misunderstandings. It is of course a matter for the competent bodies to determine - and it can be done on the basis of the principles of public accounting - what exactly are the compensation fees. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to a political element in the objection to unconstitutionalism raised by the New Democracy. Yesterday, representatives of the Union of Municipalities and the Committee of the Regions came to the committee responsible. Their positions were shared in writing and the debate that took place - and it was demonstrated by their substantial reintroduction at the end - that there were misunderstandings, which I believe were broken up, were clarified. There is an awareness that at this stage there is a need to safeguard the Government's ability to negotiate, the Government's ability to ensure that wages and pensions are paid without harming other bodies. It was said that yesterday's debate was imposed on the government. It wasn't imposed. Through a democratic debate in committee, with a proposal put forward by Mrs Bakoyannis and accepted by us, unanimously - I do not remember how the JRC was placed - all the other parties agreed that this procedure should be followed, that is to say today in Parliament. We were surprised to see that the New Democracy and the Potami retreated at the Conference of Presidents. I do not understand why the New Democracy specifically retreated when it should support this proposal, which was a proposal that Mrs Bakoyannis has put forward. And that proves that the SYRIZA and the government are not involved in the meetings with closed ears and prejudices, but we are ready to contribute, to contribute to the development of a framework of democratic confrontation and dialogue without voices, without an exchange of deceptive expressions, with respect for the functioning of this House. Because - and with this I am ending - and if this is true - the anxiety about tomorrow in the country, the anxiety about the country's present day, the anxiety about pensions and wages, cannot be'served' by techniques which undermine Parliament's function. For the reasons we have mentioned, we do not object to unconstitutionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u221	The growth was overdue by the name and copying. We will open a list for the seven parliamentary representatives of the respective parties. Mr. Mitsotakis asked for the floor. Let SYRIZA tell me if he wants to follow, otherwise I can follow the parliamentary order, so that each parliamentary representative can take the floor. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I was very surprised to hear the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman confess to what we all suspected in this Chamber, but the government had never dared to say that without this act of legislation they would not pay wages and pensions at the end of the month. You officially confessed that we are a bankrupt country. That's what you did today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I wonder what is the case, Minister: what you said, that you want a safety pillow, or what the parliamentary representative said, justifying the supreme public interest in the act? Because the only argument I have heard is that we can violate Article 102 of the Constitution because there is a major national reason. And who's that? Pay wages and pensions. "Put back", that is, gentlemen, mayors, because if you don't give us the money, on April 30, the country will not be able to pay wages and pensions. I support the tragic situation in which you have brought the country. We'll talk about it later. How, then, have we reached the point after three months of SYRIZA ruling that this debate is taking place in the country? Were we ever in this situation six or twelve months ago, talking about absolutely self-evident? That led us to have a strong negotiation, not to be able to pay salaries and pensions to the pensioners whom you invoke and for whom you are fighting for. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is the situation you have brought the country into.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u223	That's where they led us... (not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u224	You bankrupt the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u225	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u226	Can I ask you something more? You say you told the mayors: “Don’t worry. Whenever you want to get your money back, you can get it." They are the same mayors that the President of SYRIZA once called "a bourgeois mayor". Now you are forced to come and ask them and force them to give you their available. But if you spend the money on the mayor's cash to pay salaries and pensions, and on May 3, a mayor comes in and asks his money back, what will he find? You're going to have a financial void. You confessed yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u227	Everything we found.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u228	You confessed yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really sorry that the country has come to this tragic situation. I also regret the issue of Parliament's argument on the retroactiveness of the provision. If you'd done any better, Mr. Finance Minister, you wouldn't have to resort to this retroactive arrangement. But we all know the truth. What's the logic of the retroactive character? Why is there? To cover Mrs Durou, who willingly rushed to deposit her available. That is why there is retroactiveness, ladies and gentlemen. Don't fool around here. And the importance of the government - and I am closing with that, Mr President - to discuss the proposal today, I do not understand it. The act has already given rise to legitimate interests since it has been published. Why such a study? Did anyone ask you from abroad? Does the 'institutions' ultimately require the government, in order to test the coherence of the government's majority, to vote on the legislative act? Is it not at least paradoxical, Minister, to have an earlier act of legislation that has not yet been discussed in committee? The issue of unconstitutionalism is indisputable, Mr President. It is a clear violation of the relevant articles of the Constitution. You will obviously assume responsibility by voting against the New Democracy proposal and by voting in favour of this act. But this does not cancel the fact that you are forced to resort to extreme anti-constitutional measures to cover your tragic inability to make even an elementary planning for the country's cash reserves. The fact that, in this Chamber today, the parliamentary representative has practically confessed to the country's official bankruptcy will accompany you for a long time, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor from the Golden Dawn party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we have just seen Members of the Greek Parliament applauding the bankruptcy of the country. That's all he says about some people. Secondly, we see an almost supra-party, hypocritical sensitivity, beginning with Mr Vorides and - as we said before - the atrocities they had made at the previous parliamentary session. To remind you here of various interpretations of the Constitution: we had just heard a few months ago, here in Parliament, in the case of the lifting of immunity by Mr Michalakis, the honourable Member, Mr Pavlopoulou - he was not President of the Republic, he was a member of the New Democracy - who, in short, said that MPs and ministers can be expelled, 'take them', because they do not fall under the law on the financing of civil servants, because they are not civil servants but do some function. Let us remember the selective use of the Constitution and its interpretation in the case of micronomists, who have now for decades been guaranteed by the Greek State, who have invested their money in the state, helped the Greek state and within one day, with a signature, you have taken them all. Let us remember even the first memorandum, where some unacceptable procedures were made - it was the beginning of the end of this country - where Members of the Greek Parliament voted for things that were not only anti-constitutional but were ethnocides and anti-Greeks. The Constitution - because you are constantly mentioned - states that above all and everything is the Greek people. And you should keep this in mind at any time when you bring in the Greek Parliament either acts of legislation or bills or anything else, which you support and vote for because of the majority of which there is a party or parties at certain times. Therefore, the New Democracy is not entitled to speak of unconstitutionality and violation of the rights of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. On the other hand, we have heard Mr Philly say that they defend the public's rights and obligations. Mr. Phil, you were saying that you were a party in the pre-elections. Because people's rights were certainly not the continuation of the memorandum which, unfortunately, you are doing so. But you were saying. You said you would abolish the memorandum with an article, bring it to the House. You never brought it. Instead, we can all see that the unacceptable and ethnoic procedure is going on properly. You say you are fighting for the good of the Greek people. Also, they did not vote for you to continue with this kind of public service obligations. You said that there had to be an audit of the debt, that most of this debt is burdensome, it is illegal, it is shameful and it should be deleted in order to move forward. Instead, the ministers of government come out and go out and say "we will fulfil our full obligations towards the troika" - now 'institutions', so that we do not fool ourselves. Also, the life and state of the previous government, the real narcotic, unwilling, life of the previous government, does not allow you to continue the same and use it as an excuse. You were the ones who constantly supported legislative acts for any reason. You said that, so far, in the short life of your Government, you have brought it into legislative action. This shows that you've made a very bad start. And the fact that the abstention of the Greek people to the previous government gives you a very great tolerance does not mean that the Greek people will give you tolerance indefinitely and forever. At some point this tolerance and towards the current government will be stopped. These measures are not temporary, we all know that. And the worst of all is that you may not bring this today - for some reason - through an act of legislation, bring it tomorrow, tomorrow, by another procedure, but the result is the same. You take the Greek State's money from municipalities, from regions, from hospitals, from everywhere, in order to pay - you say - salaries and pensions, because there is no money. But some other money that was there a few days ago, a few weeks ago, a few months ago, as you said, they're going to the loan sharks to pay back loan-growth obligations. This has to stop. That is why the Greek people have voted for you, and that is why you should do it, rather than bring in such legislative acts to do exactly the opposite. Clearly, today's legislative act is unconstitutional. Articles 16(5) and 102(2) of the Constitution on the prohibition of retroactive law, the self-employed of universities, the economic and administrative autonomy of Ottas, all show that the Constitution is being violated. You have the majority. You can do what you want, but in the conscience of the Greek people you are doing the opposite to those for which many have supported you and voted. We are voting in favour of the proposal on unconstitutionality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. Mr Theocharis from the river has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am sorry, and I regret that I did not have the opportunity to be at another plenary session. Because that would enable me to attend both sides of today's irony, which we are attending. The New Democracy is being cut on the unconstitutionality of legislative acts and SYRIZA claiming that legislative acts are constitutional. It is a downfall to monitor such processes of reversal of reason and reality when we see the subjection of substance and of truth in feasibility. That's what we're watching today. The government has the right to baptize the troika's 'institutions'. He has the right to baptize groups that meet in Paris 'Brussels Group'. It has the right to baptize the Memorandum of ‘borrowing contract’. These, personally, aren't my concern. But when he baptizes the procedures, when he baptizes the legislative acts, at the moment when Mr. Butsis, presently stated on 11-12/2012 that it is "spiritual inspiration" acts of legislation, when Mr. Papadimoulou at "SKAI" on 10-4-2013, said that "no other country in Europe exists, this humiliating government by means of legislative acts" means that we cannot tolerate this kind of defection and reversal, as I said, of reality. But let us say a few words, perhaps to explain to the people who are watching us - they are not all constitutionalists here, and I am certainly not - what is needed to be an act of constitutionality. Two conditions must be met both cumulatively, the urgency and the unforeseen. We heard from Mr. Friend today the unthinkable. He said it was a "unpredictable event" that we had to pay wages and pensions. We don't do this every month, I wonder? Aren't wages and pensions an obligation for the state to be paid every month? Is that unpredictable? Do we do this every two months, every three and every six months? Do we in this way support constitutionality? Emergency is the emergency situation in which you brought the country. Urgent wasn't born. Urgently, you have born it, and you have done it, the government. The government has made it unpredictable that the funds have been cleared and that we are negotiating with our partners in the Eurogroup today and we have no place where to stand and be forced - not even to vote, it has already achieved legal results - and we are simply coming today to ratify this legislative act. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional legislature has put Article 44(1) in place so that it can really cover urgent situations such as famine, earthquake, sorrow and the periods during which Parliament is closed down. Can you explain to me where the famine and earthquake are? I'll explain. It is the government that governs us, SYRIZA and ANEL. This is the unpredictable situation, this is the extraordinary situation which makes the act of legislation necessary. [[Applause]] That's why! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You'll hear them. You confess to your failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u233	Don't interrupt. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u234	We have had a great deal of trouble if we should support or not support unconstitutionalism. If, therefore, the government rises through its representatives and apologises to the Greek Parliament and says, in fact, that our actions and omissions have made the payment of wages and pensions exceptional and unforeseen, then yes, we will argue that this act is a constitutional act. But if it had to have been better planning, but if they hadn't assured a month ago that stocks were up until 30 June and 15 days later, we were told that they would be up until the end of April and that at 8.30 in the morning we would have been missing 400 million and at 10.00 in the morning we opened the bag and found, we looked under the pillows, if that is what we are planning, then this act of legislation is not a constitutional act. That's our place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. He has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, following the debate on unconstitutionalism, one will observe the following question: the protagonists have simply changed their role.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u237	Quiet, gentlemen and ladies. Be quiet for the speaker to continue! Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u238	To stop, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u239	Quiet, please. Go on, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u240	I'm saying the protagonists just changed their role. [[Noise in the Chamber]] May I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u241	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u242	I say, then, that the protagonists simply changed their role. Mr Vorides then had the role of anti-constitutionalism and, of course, - not Mr Philis, because he was not here - Mr Lafazanis had the role of saying that he was putting forward proposals for unconstitutionalism to defend the civil constitution. And the roles have changed, because the government's majority has just changed. And the accident is that exactly the same arguments are used by the speakers and the contributors. In other words, Mr Friends told us that we are doing all this to pay wages and pensions. The same thing was said at the time by the contributors, that we are making the loan contract, the memorandum, the legislative acts and the medium-term ones, and even in fast-track procedures, to ensure wages and pensions. So you don't even start with arguments. And what was the essence? Of course, you did not guarantee wages and pensions because you cut them. In practice it was also time-consuming - as is Mr Varoufakis' new terminology today - of state debt. In other words, we have a repetitive elastic interpretation of the urban constitution, which has a common feature. Flexibility in matters relating to labour rights, their defence and satisfaction and determination in defending the interests of capitalists. After all, it is no coincidence that the central idea of the civil constitution is precisely that of defending capitalist property and its profit. We said, and now we will say, that the point is to discuss the substance of the matter. For example, by means of the Act of Legislative content, the Government is making a compulsory commitment to cash inflows to serve the obligations relating to credit contracts and to the State debt to the detriment of the fulfilment of the people's needs. Of course, the government claims that there are exceptional conditions. If that is right, then it should take emergency administrative action measures. This is not an extraordinary act, it does not have a limited period of time, but does it have a period of validity, which is essentially what it confirms? It confirms that today's conflict is moving towards a more general strategic choice, like the previous ones, which speaks of absolute control over public bodies and local and regional administration bodies, as well as of reducing state funding towards municipalities, hospitals, universities, in the name of recompense and taxation and, of course, of privatization of their operation. This is the strategic planning served by the legislative act. Of course, there are also the dark points which the government does not answer, avoid answering them, for example. Why is there retrospectiveness? Who do you want to cover, exactly what issues? And, secondly, which bodies are concerned with? There is no specific list, just limited to what ELSTAT will put into that list. But of course, there are typical reasons. The article of the Constitution concerning the so-called administrative and financial autonomy of the municipalities and regions, for example, was invoked as an argument. Only this article, which has always been violated by the Kallikrates and the Kallikrates, has been violated, as a whole, by the administrative reform that transformed self-government into local and regional on the substance of the administration. From this point of view, Mr President, you certainly understand what the JRC's position on this matter will be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Nikolaopoulos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, everyone knows that, at the end of the day, colleagues will soon be called upon to give an opinion on the constitutionality or not of the legislative instrument. It is obvious that what will be the answer, because no matter how much Mr Vorides has asked the Members of the Co-Police to show that sensitivity that must, of course, be understood as a confession of self-criticism. Because if what the spokesman for the Greater Opposition asks us to do today had he done so in the previous times of the memorial glaciers, in fact, we would not have arrived here, we would have avoided it. However, I do not think anyone should speak more about this. For who does not remember, when the House was provoked to say "it is constitutional or unconstitutional", the "cut" was constitutional or unconstitutional?", they themselves rose then and had no shame in bringing these results. The iron arms of the previous two co-chairmen, who indicated how, spoke of the 'Government of famine and earthquake'. Who? The one who was the Secretary General, the one who was the "long hand"! Yes, well, he today, representing a political force that every day wants to take part in this government, which wants to become a member of this government, comes and says that this government is of famine, earthquake, oppression! How can this be done, since they themselves want to become part of this government effort, and indeed, they also have allies for this 'I want' and foreigners, who come and say 'they to put to the government, why are they better, and let Kammenos go'? Mr President, of course, the applause will go for free...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u245	Quiet, please! Carry on, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u246	The applause of Vice-Presidents for bankruptcy will be for free. Why what Greeks, which Greeks could imagine, are there Greek politicians who can rub their hands in such a case? Now, it's time to prove what each one of us says. If, for example, we follow what Antipopulation says, what is the result? They want the country to stay without liquidity? Is that what they're seeking? And so they come to confirm the worst fears, that these traps that have been set up, before that government even takes over, are in their knowledge and instead of preventing them, they want to lead home, fall into the traps of the creditors, and that they want the country to remain without those available funds, which now allow the Greek delegation to negotiate upright? Mr President, sooner or later, it is certain that the representatives of the people will answer whether or not we should adopt the government's proposal. However, I would like to say the following. It is true that such questions can be raised: 'What will the mayors get the next day if their available resources are made available?' It will not be the next day that they are appetizing and unfortunately not hiding it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u248	No, Mr. Theochari, on personal grounds. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid phrases such as'shorts, earthquakes...', etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u249	I did not use a name, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u250	It is a difficult subject to debate on our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u251	Whoever has the fly smells!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u252	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to all have a symptom of phrases and designations. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u253	Please, I want the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u254	In the end, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u255	Please, now! I don't understand you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u256	What's your request? I don't understand you! Please have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u257	Is that possible? But on personal grounds!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u259	Do you refuse to give me the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u260	Please! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two teachers from the American College of Greece. The House welcomes you. Be well, have health and good progress! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u261	We have a legislative act, of which we are discussing constitutionality. Before I begin my political or legal arguments, addressing the left of the House, I would like to say 'Help the children!', reminding Alekos Alavanos that some years ago. Well done, then, children who had a parliamentary representative - Minister now - who in every act was talking about a coup! I would like to see, after their vote on this vote, the majority Members of the House who will also be calling behind it to think, sharing both their effort and their anxiety, how they will feel. They were talking about coups. Legislative practice is not a good practice. We were talking about it when we proposed that as governments in previous years. That is why because we have oneself, ladies and gentlemen, and we are not two in one, we facilitated the government with our own proposal. And a debate with the bodies took place in committee - because you were smuggling it out of urgency without saying it, you are ashamed! - and we made it easier for us to finish here today. And that is why I wonder about Mr. Friends, with whom we were discussing how we would facilitate the Prime Minister in what he wants to have in his supplies when he talks and said that we would also contribute in the process. It is another thing, which is a consistent parliamentary behaviour of a tough but fair opposition, and another is having two of you. The one as opposition and the very opposite as a government. That's all before we get into the conversation. Before my legal arguments I would like to say another political one. Mr President, the Deputy Minister in the channels who said he was missing money, and after ten minutes he found it, the committee said - now he's fine, he's probably got it -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u262	He's talking to a channel. Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u263	Oh, he's interviewing. The Deputy Minister has confessed once, twice, ten times that he has no wages and that is why he is conducting this legislative initiative together with his Minister. His government has taken a country with an admissibility and the same surplus and has brought it to the point of not being able to pay wages!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u264	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u265	We received a deficit of 36 billion! The SYRIZA then knows about it. [[Noise in the Chamber on the SYRIZA side]] Well, I'll see you later in the conversation in detail. We shall now proceed to the constitutional arguments. Mr President, you will allow me to present my arguments without harassment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u266	Don't be alarmed, gentlemen. Go on, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to do something for the first time now that I have not done all these years, i.e. taking the floor on constitutionality to make reports of ideas or intellectual, well-known legal 'excursions', as he has usually done during the previous stages of his course before becoming Minister and as he has written and after being a member of the government. I am not going to say things that do not apply or which I do not believe, speaking of unconstitutionality. However, we are also raising a question of constitutionality and Article 1 and Article 2 of the Act of Legislation. We are voting on our arguments relating to Article 1 of the Act and not on Article 2 of the Act, but to which I shall refer. Ladies and gentlemen, as previous colleagues have said, Article 44(1) of the Constitution, which guarantees the possibility of this specific legislative procedure, requires unforeseen and exceptional needs. The second paragraph of the Act of Legislation extends its validity from 17 March. We in the committee said that this was done - that is to say, we are not the ones who are aware - to cover the Attica region. The unpredictable need that lies in a couple of months ago is an invention. It's your invention and it exposes you. Of course, by the law's vote today, which can give the provisions of retroactive power, pathology is cured. So the President of the Republic who signed this act on the 20th day of the month signed a legal text provided for in the Constitution to meet unforeseen needs and gave him effect from 17 March, that is, he took it before. This anomaly is cured by the vote today - because the law can give retroactive effect to its regulations - so we do not propose that the confrontation of paragraph 2 of the legislative act with Article 44(1) of the Constitution be put to the vote. We'll be tough, but serious. But you have to think about it. Politics you will consider, as soon as you go to your regions but legally today, the first paragraph of the Act of Legislative Action. And I am pleased that Mr Philis refers to yesterday's debate with the institutions who are here and listen to us, because the constitutional problems have indeed emerged there. I will be very pitiful in my arguments, because we are very pitiful and in our particular proposal. We don't extend it to everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be very brief and thank you. The legislative act in Article 1 has problems with regard, firstly, to Article 16(5) of the Constitution concerning the administrative and financial autonomy of universities, where, Mr President, on what point? I'm sure I'm speaking. Not with regard to state funding, I could say and there are colleagues in public law in this Chamber and I want them to listen to me. So not there necessarily, but certainly as far as the research accounts are concerned. As the Rector of the Polytechnic University of Crete said yesterday, unconstitutionality in relation to the financial self-sufficiency of Article 16(5), colleagues who treat legal science, is clear. At the same time, we also need to refer to Article 109 of the Constitution, which regulates issues relating to donations and wills. The universities have legacy and, as the dean said yesterday, they have such problems. Paragraph 1 of the Act is therefore contrary to Article 16(5) of the Constitution and Article 109. I now live in the same paragraph - and I conclude - as far as I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, Article 102(2) and (4) of the Constitution, on local self-government and on the first and second degrees. They were in committee yesterday and carried experiences, which all the members of the committee now know where they were yesterday, because they heard the lively debate. From the resources of local government, Mr Voridis, I will not extend to state grant, because there are also opposite arguments and possibly opposite case law, but I will confine myself to compensation fees. These, Mr President, cannot be touched by the provisions of the legislative act. This is a constitutionally unacceptable and at the same time, in relation to OTAs, Article 109 of the Constitution also operates. Therefore, Article 1 of the Act of Legislation, against Article 102(2) and (4) of the Constitution and Article 109(1). Finally, Mr President, because the majority colleague, Mr Philis, has referred to the temporary nature of the legislative act, I have to say to him that the temporary nature of Article 1, Mr President, does not arise because you are organizing local government finances, direct, urgent and for the next fifteen days, and for the next fifteen and for the next fifteen days. We told the committee, ladies and gentlemen, that this removal of funds has an end, that is to say, the agreement that will give the country resources - we will talk about it later, in the debate on the substance - and allow these resources to be met with regard to their economic needs and their immediate planning. Today, when the media have been flooding with an optimism that will end the Eurogroup and the first press conferences are held, there we read "black" news, "black" news, which for local government and other bodies create further concerns. I do not want to convey - it would be very pleasant - the designations written for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u268	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen! Go on, Mr. Loverdo, and finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u269	The temporary nature, in essence, is questioned 100% and the government will do well, this anomaly of the length of the act to correct it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Theochari, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u271	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Theocharis has the floor and I ask SYRIZA to inform me if anyone wants to speak because he did not use the speech through his parliamentary representative. I would like to inform the House that we shall then give the Minister the floor to express the view of the government and in ten-15 minutes we shall be voting. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks was mentioned to me and to our party Potami, saying that I was "a long hand", because I respected the obligations of each public official, that is to say, to comply with the laws of the state that the Greek Parliament voted on. We, therefore, cannot accept the respect of the laws and the respect of Parliament as reproach. But it also referred to things that we have closed once and for all, the supposed will of our party to collide and indeed to be in the position of ANELs. Let him not carry his own desires. He may be doing so because he does not participate in the government, even though his party is involved. I am sure that if he asks for permission from the Luxembourg Prime Minister, who has demanded that he be not in the government, he can be given to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u274	What does this have to do with the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u275	The government to place...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u276	The Government, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Colleague of Constitutional Law, under the Rules of Procedure, is not required to discuss the point of view...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u277	That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u278	That's all? Oh, that's different!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u279	Let Mr. Lafazanis speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u280	Parliament wants to hear the Minister, Mr Lafazani. It's a universal request.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u281	The House wants to hear Lafasan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u282	Firstly, you are abdicating me that I do not give the floor to the government, when I say to you that it is not required under the Rules of Procedure because it says 'if it wishes'. The government asks whether he wants the floor and says he does not want it, because he has been content with the opinions.... [[Applause from the PASOK wing - Noise in the Chamber]] Oh, applaud! Mr. Friend has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. I've heard the Vice-Presidents. I do not want to answer specifically because nothing new arises from this debate. I think, however, that we should not lose the general picture at the moment when we are talking about the unconstitutionality, which has been raised by my fellow Members, of this act of legislation. At the moment, after the personal intervention yesterday by the Prime Minister and the summits he held, the negotiation is moving at political level and the general picture is that the current government is not the prelude to technical escalation, it is not the current government and Parliament's precedent of lenders. On the contrary, it has raised the issue on a political level and at this very stage the move to bring now and not after two months or ever, as had been done with the ERT project, which has not been voted on by Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u284	What you're saying is not true, because we made a law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u285	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u286	We made the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u287	That's the other law. We're talking about the FTL.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u288	That's where he got in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u289	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u290	Instead of following the practice of the previous government which was despising Parliament, even when it promoted an act of legislation, we now want to shield the government's initiative by a decision of Parliament. It is a message both outwards and outwards that we are giving as much consistency and consensus as possible the fight to negotiate, that we have all the ammunition here, not to bankrupt the country, but to make sure that there is no accident on the part of the public. So - and I'm ending up - it's a foretaste, not panic, the move we're making. It is an act which provides for urgency, which can be created and which has already begun to be created, simply by the peculiarity that, as a matter of urgency, this is being dealt with both through the government's efforts. That is why we insist that the vote be taken today. We are not pleased or happy that we are actually resorting to legislation. This is a necessary move, because there is no legislative work this week in this House and because we want to have - we stress it - an expression of the House, namely the greatest possible consensus, and on the subject of negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u293	Do you want the floor, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u294	We asked for Lafazani!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u295	Minister Voutsis has the floor, please, and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u296	I would like to make a political speech, colleagues and colleagues. In their reasons, the representatives of the opposition have raised their arguments on constitutionality with a number of political considerations, which have even reached the point of announcing the results of the Eurogroup or in any case how we negotiate, etc. You have had the opportunity today, and you will also have the afternoon, if you speak, to report specifically and to take responsibility for what the country, the government, should do right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u297	You rule!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u298	Please don't interrupt the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u299	In other words, instead of hiding - classic, traditional and neo-imonial powers - behind the pretext of any procedural debate, you must say that the country must leave this critical phase, three months after this strategy of suffocation has been imposed, admitting, accepting the basics that lenders want us to accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u300	No, you're gonna say that! Go, go, go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u301	You're not saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u302	You're gonna say that. You'll do that. We are talking about unconstitutionalism, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u303	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u304	Don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u305	You bring it around. All your talks are talks to give weapons, equipment to lenders, partners and those who lead the country to suffocation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u306	Yeah, they were waiting for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u307	You must finally assume your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u308	You're with Merkel every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u309	If one responds typically as if it were a typical subject of opposition to unconstitutionality, it would be a very easy thing to do. Mr. Friend did it twice already. We could also tell you, for example, "See the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, what it says".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u310	What's he saying? He doesn't say anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u311	Don't ask us for responsibilities!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u312	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u313	When you brought legislative acts, the Scientific Committee... [[Noise - Protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen. The Minutes are inside. Listen. What happened all of a sudden, and there's nervousness, guys? Come on! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When issues of unconstitutionalism came here from today's majority, when we were a strong opposition, the reports of the Scientific Committee were found from points which were manifestly unconstitutional. This is not how we came to make political speeches, because we believe - your right - that it is not a constitutional matter. We could therefore simply refer to the Scientific Committee or, for the first time, to the fact that it is directly, within a period of 90 hours, an immediate and thorough debate with all the rules of the legislative procedure, in which you also contributed, to force us to do even better and we have no other reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u314	We've decided. We didn't contribute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u315	Instead of referring to these, then, you are trying to procedurally on unexistent objections to the central issue of describing it in constitutional and legal terms. So I repeat, Mr President - and I end with this, I am sorry that I have longed - that the crucial issue for the country is now that. You won't avoid it. Or you will represent here in 100% the applications, the complaints, the objections and demands of the country's lenders to the current government or you will be assigned to your role...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u317	What are you talking about? Shame on you! Now you've found out? But you may say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u318	I would like to say the following: we have told you 15 times in the last month.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u319	You say and make up your mind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u320	You rule now! No, gentlemen, not on the cell phone, but on us to talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u321	Please! You will say, 'I do it for 50, so we won't get any misunderstandings.' You'll be talking about wages, pensions, VAT, privatisations, the red lines that the Prime Minister put in!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u322	Enough! Sit down and talk to the lenders!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u323	You guys say. You're the government! We're not government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u325	Don't get mad! Mr. Kikilia, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u326	Tell us what he talked about!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u327	We don't know what he talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u328	Three times he went to Angela Merkel in a month!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, three times he has changed his mind. It speaks in the channels and not in Parliament. Tell us whether or not he has to pay the pensions. Are you or aren't you government? Get your responsibilities. Enough of the bows coming to the floor! The Minister speaks in the channels and not in Parliament! He's talking to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u330	Quiet, please! Have a seat, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u331	Don't get mad, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u332	Get your responsibilities!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Kikilia, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u334	You're government, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u335	What are you yelling at, Mr. Kikilia?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u336	That's enough of a fairy tale!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u337	To ground you with reality...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u338	Three times, your chief went to Merkel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u339	We don't know what he talked about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u340	What should we know? We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u341	Now, I'll say about Merkel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u342	Minister, have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u343	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u344	Your bowage arrives on the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u345	To raise you with reality, these issues that I mentioned earlier are what the Prime Minister discussed yesterday with the leadership of the countries of the European Union. These are the issues that they discuss at the Eurogroup. These are the issues that the 'Brussels Group', as they are called...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Flambury...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u347	Listen, man. But listen up and find out. These are the issues that put the technical beams on us. I accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u348	What brings the legislative act? (Noise in the Chamber)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u349	Stop, let's hear. Last talk to me. I accept... Mrs. Vuldesis, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u350	We'll pay for it. What do you want with the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u351	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u352	What should I finish? I accept that you know very well and what the technical tiles say and what the Franco-German axis says and what the former troikas say, but one difference. You knew them from another position, in a different mood, in a different perspective. You fully accepted what you were told, and we drove where we were headed. This has changed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u353	This is not unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u355	Have a seat, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u356	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u357	You're unacceptable! You must be ashamed of yourself if you said so!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u358	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u359	You don't have the right! Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Loverdo, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u361	Get that back!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u362	It's incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u364	Mr President, they should be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, stop the sitting for three minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, you are screaming!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u367	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u368	Let's give the Minister the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u369	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to proceed to the vote, I would like to announce the presence of young people in western theories taking a democratic lesson. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I address you. It is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-five students and students and three teachers from the 3rd Florinas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] They're lucky and lucky they took a high-democracy class today. We wish them good progress and health. In three or five minutes, we're going to vote, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u370	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, you should give the Minister the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u373	To be fair, because the reason, the intervention of the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u374	We all want the floor on personal grounds for what has been heard. One by one. He's insulting us all. What has been heard has to be revoked. If it's not withdrawn, we all want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, take the initiative to remove it from the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u376	If you want to take the floor - you are a noble man - I have no reason to go to the meeting tomorrow. I'll be here. So I'm gonna ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u377	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u378	Mr Mitsotakis, please sit down because there is a Bureau. You are used to me mildly, please, I will give the floor to every parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u379	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u380	Please, Mr. Nicolopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u381	Get the vote to the finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u382	There's gonna be order here! Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I heard that! Mr Karathanasopoulos says that we shall proceed quickly to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u383	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u384	Can you calm down?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, the vote cannot be taken. Give the Minister the floor to withdraw. End fairy tales!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u387	Do you want the floor, Mr. Voutsi? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u388	I am pleased about the indignation and sensitivity which is manifested. We have pointed out so many times that you are being called upon to place on the real territory of the very serious issues, where there is confrontation with partner lenders, with the result that the country - because there is a difference of opinion on these issues and not because there is some machine or some is being delayed, etc. - to have reached this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u389	Let's go again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u390	Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u391	So when you have been so many times, even today, and I told you to place yourself this afternoon, and you have not said a single word on the substance of these issues, that is what I meant. When I told you that by omission or the absence of your word, the objections and criticisms you make to the government are the same bank as the complaints of lenders, that is what I meant. I'm not revoking a single word!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u392	If it doesn't, we'll leave!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u393	Let's go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, we are brutally offended. We want the floor on personal grounds. I am sorry that you are not giving us the floor, Mr President, and the quality of the democracy you want to impose on this sacred place! If you had the elementary democratic sensitivity, you would have recalled!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u395	I am not withdrawing, after giving these clarifications, not a word, and I tell you that if you think you have immunity, because you are hanging on a minority of the people, but on a majority of the means of interacting, you are mistaken!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u396	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) withdraws because you have a huge responsibility for what is happening!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u397	You're screaming here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u398	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're very welcome. Mr Mitsotakis, you have the floor and I will give the floor to anyone who asks and substantiates an opinion on what the Minister said. Do not worry. You'll stay here while you're causing controversy. Therefore, Mr Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u399	Minister, I am sorry that you have insulted the honour and reputation of this party and all Members personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u400	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u401	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u402	We do not accept lessons from you in patriotic loyalty. We have sworn to the same constitution and imply - that this faction serves other interests - it is unacceptable that they be heard in this Chamber. But the reason, Minister, that you are doing so - and I was actually surprised at the unusual style, because we are not used to you in such tension and in such an irritation - is clear. Minister, you're preparing a break scene and looking for guilty men. That's what you're doing with your intervention! That's exactly what you're doing! If you have decided, honourable Members, to jump off the plane without parachute, we will not be your parachute!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u403	Do you want that plane for yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u404	Minister, you have asked us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u405	Don't open a dialogue, Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u406	What does that mean, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u407	Please, you're dizzy from the many pirouettes. Take a picture even and then let's talk about it. So you have asked us, Minister, how we are being placed as a new democracy, in the tough negotiations that the Government is negotiating on the issues of insurance, VAT and the policies to modernise administration. I would therefore like to remind you, Minister, and my fellow Members, why you have forgotten them, and to see what the e-mail Varoufakis says, which you have sent. The government is committed to continuing the policies of the previous government - listen, Mr Voutsi - to modernise the pension system. So, do you agree? Why don't you go and do it? The Government is committed to abolishing parafiscal taxes. The Government undertakes to proceed with a single wage. What have you done and come here to accuse this party of your own inadequacy? It's a disgrace to what you're doing! You cannot do this Parliamentary Group well. You dare not bring an agreement to it here in this House, because you know very well that it will be voted against. And you come and put the burden on Civicism, which since the first day said to you "Give a good deal and here we are supporting it". But the lies are over, Minister. You confessed to bankruptcy and offended one of the Members of this party! [[Noise in the Chamber]] We therefore ask - and I call on your democratic conscience - that you personally withdraw what you have said about the Members of the New Democracy. Otherwise, you will force us, Minister, to withdraw from the vote. You will force us to withdraw to the minimum evidence of protest about the spirit and style of a Left which unfortunately has nothing to do with the Left which we at least have known.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u408	You're very welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u409	I want the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u410	You will take the floor, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Mitsotakis, do you give up the request for unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u411	I look forward to the reply of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u412	The Bureau wants to have an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u413	Either you get it back or you'll end up talking alone if you like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u415	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u416	I see the strong desire of this House to open a circle with parliamentary representatives for discussion. That's what I see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u417	You'll be left alone to vote. You'll take responsibility yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u418	Mrs Gerovalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, the cycle of unconstitutional positions, I think, has been completed. The views of all sides have been formulated. The contest...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u420	Revocation of the Minister. If it doesn't, I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u421	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u422	Mr President, you are a mild man. Sit here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u423	The conversation is over and the competition...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u424	That's the new spirit!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u425	The TV shot contest is over. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u427	Mrs. Bakoyannis wants the floor. Are you going to talk or are you going? Your representative speaks here. Mr. Mitsotakis, your sister is talking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u428	We'll all leave together, Mr. President. I would like to address SYRIZA's colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I now belong to the oldest Members of this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u429	Don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, I now belong to the oldest Members of this House. I want to tell you that what happened today is a heaviest stump. In the twenty - five years I have served the Greek Parliament we have had many tensions, many times we have had prisoners. However, no one was ever thought of by the government's benches to give such a reproach to the opposition. What he did today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u431	I didn't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u432	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u433	Stop yelling, ladies and gentlemen. What your Minister has done today is an unprecedented force...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u434	Don't interrupt. Don't let the trader finish. Mrs. Bakoyannis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u435	...by telling and questioning the patriotism of his colleagues in this Hall. So I call, Minister, because at some point in this House we have to coexist, stand up and revoke now, because you are insulting every Member elected with the New Democracy. This has never happened before. And because we have to live together in this Chamber - in a time of great crisis, at a time when, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to apologise, as you are apologiseing today for the act of legislation - that Parliament cannot... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Silence, ma'am, you. ...the House can't be a jungle. You have no right to make the jungle House, Mr. Voutsi. So, I expect you to call back, or else you'll have a nice afternoon agreeing that you need to get the money from the government. You'll get them the last penny, and then I want to see your faces when you go to your villages and municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u436	The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u437	We're going to the villages. You've never been to the villages. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] We'll go back to the villages, you don't know what the village means! They're opening the door to you outside the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u438	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u439	Mrs Bakoyannis, I have asked why we really have to do everything we can to clarify and what we can do between us in terms of objections, do so and it is our duty to do this. Nor was it in my mind that all of what I said to you - and I said to you that I mean them - with patriotic feelings, with the representation of the people or with what you think is best served, as you have already done for five years, in the name of the salvation of the people. You were a coup d'you were a coup d'état. You thought so. You have these perceptions, these opinions. You consider it a patriotic duty and we believe you are doing it in your own view. It is clear that there is no question of moral order or patriotic manifestation in what you are saying. It is purely political and in-depth our disagreement, which has already evolved for five years. We don't see her today. It is a question of clarifying our views in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u440	Mrs. Bakoyannis, after the corrigendum...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u441	I'm covered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u442	We accept that he has withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u443	You're very welcome. Don't complain! Ladies and gentlemen, I now belong to the oldest Members of this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u444	Don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u445	Ladies and gentlemen, I now belong to the oldest Members of this House. I want to tell you that what happened today is a heaviest stump. In the twenty - five years I have served the Greek Parliament we have had many tensions, many times we have had prisoners. However, no one was ever thought of by the government's benches to give such a reproach to the opposition. What he did today...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u446	I didn't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u447	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u448	Stop yelling, ladies and gentlemen. What your Minister has done today is an unprecedented force...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u449	Don't interrupt. Don't let the trader finish. Mrs. Bakoyannis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u450	...by telling and questioning the patriotism of his colleagues in this Hall. So I call, Minister, because at some point in this House we have to coexist, stand up and revoke now, because you are insulting every Member elected with the New Democracy. This has never happened before. And because we have to live together in this Chamber - in a time of great crisis, at a time when, ladies and gentlemen, you will have to apologise, as you are apologiseing today for the act of legislation - that Parliament cannot... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Silence, ma'am, you. ...the House can't be a jungle. You have no right to make the jungle House, Mr. Voutsi. So, I expect you to call back, or else you'll have a nice afternoon agreeing that you need to get the money from the government. You'll get them the last penny, and then I want to see your faces when you go to your villages and municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u451	The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u452	We're going to the villages. You've never been to the villages. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] We'll go back to the villages, you don't know what the village means! They're opening the door to you outside the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u453	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u454	Mrs Bakoyannis, I have asked why we really have to do everything we can to clarify and what we can do between us in terms of objections, do so and it is our duty to do this. Nor was it in my mind that all of what I said to you - and I said to you that I mean them - with patriotic feelings, with the representation of the people or with what you think is best served, as you have already done for five years, in the name of the salvation of the people. You were a coup d'you were a coup d'état. You thought so. You have these perceptions, these opinions. You consider it a patriotic duty and we believe you are doing it in your own view. It is clear that there is no question of moral order or patriotic manifestation in what you are saying. It is purely political and in-depth our disagreement, which has already evolved for five years. We don't see her today. It is a question of clarifying our views in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u455	Mrs. Bakoyannis, after the corrigendum...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u456	I'm covered, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u457	We accept that he has withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u458	You're very welcome. Don't complain! Mutual explanations will be given. It will calm the House down. We shall vote and proceed to the debate. Do not complain as long as some colleagues are provoked or think they are being provoked. Please, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor. And he will speak to any colleague or fellow Member who considers that he has been shredded by any conversation. You're very welcome. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor, and whoever else wants to talk is done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, we are still in the debate, and we are supposed to have a constitutionality under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. While the debate - and, in our view, the government had not even been placed - was defeated by a State in the field of arguments and we were closed and we would have gone to the vote by means of a vote, then the Minister took the floor and, in an unusual manner for his own course, offended persons as a Member and as a member of today's parliamentary groups and yesterday's governments, in an unusually brutal manner, not because, ladies and gentlemen, they have not in the past been subjected to such reproach. The Prime Minister of the country years ago told Mr Papandreou Pinochet and Mr Cholakoglou. Now he's been talking to him for a couple of hours. That's what he called him. However, even from other aspects, when something like this was heard in the Chamber, usually the one who casts out such a reproach was folding, so that we can continue the discussion. The intervention of the Minister of the Interior was an intervention in line not with himself, but with the past of your resignation as opposition - insulting, reproaching - in order to change the impressions created in the Chamber surrounding the debate on arguments relating to the act of legislative content. He had no purpose. That was the purpose. And it has succeeded in making you even applaud the reproach against us in this unacceptable and anti-patriotic way but also in their reversal, as it has now done. You applauded both. Minister, we, regardless of your second speech, were aiming, although the New Democracy was leaving, to remain at the level of your arguments, with dialogue, not with reproach. We are also taking these arguments together, and what you have said now is an attempt to revise them, but it has not been made in clear ways. We'd stay and stay. You are unacceptable and we must - we ask you to - apologize. If you apologize, you facilitate procedures, in view of very difficult days, which lead to avoiding division. There goes the country, with the features of your short-term majority, in a logic of division. A direct retraction of yours with the phrase of apology is deterringly working on something that is against the interests of the people, the citizens and the country. You have the chance now to do it! Do it right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u460	Please, be quiet! Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u461	Mr President, I also said when you gave me the floor again that our arguments, our tactics, our votes bring results, they serve some policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u462	Please, be quiet! Carry on, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u463	And it's really not a few times when Greeks found "especially ass" politicians speaking with the same arguments, just to say in Greek, what the lenders said. I understood exactly what the Minister said. And I know very well and everyone here knows that each one determines himself by his own way, by his actions and by what he serves. I do not believe that there are obviously any colleagues here who are conscious that they can serve foreign interests. But who can remove the right to reason? If today, then, we do not vote on what the government proposes, who is serving? Why have creditors not given these 7 billion from August to today? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u464	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u465	That's a plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u466	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u467	Mr President, please. Please! I didn't start! What do you 'complete'? You left Mr. Mitsotakis, you left Mrs. Bakoyannis. What do you 'complete'? Take time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u468	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. I've got time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u469	I would therefore like to say that obviously other purposes serve all these interventions without substance. "Bulletian" from the first day of this session seeks this, they do this - the citizens see it every day in the news releases - why? Why can't they answer the main question: what do you say about the issues that we are dealing with today? Finally, since I did not understand why you did not give me the opportunity to reply to Mr Theocharis, I would like to say a word, a proposal. Mr President, everyone knows that when I disagreed, I resigned from the government. Mr Theocharis did not disagree, and that is what I said. He had a position extremely important as Secretary-General of the Essentials and was released after the outcry of the Greek people. Finally, can it be heard by some who say they are not racist, are they not homophobic, that some may be excluded from the government for their opinions? I never thought that what Mr Theocharis said could ever be true. If Mr. Theocharis has a special relationship, and he can really because of this relationship with the foreign Prime Minister know something more, I imagine he will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u470	Thank you. Mr. Panayiot, you have asked for the floor. Here, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. We have seen the hypersensitivity of this House once again on the verbal interventions of Ministers to the New Democracy, the PASOK and others, or else, to the contrary, to the tumbalin, but we forget, it escapes everyone that so far in committees and in plenary we have constantly heard expressions unacceptable to the Members of the Golden Dawn, extremely insulting and insulting. But there's nothing wrong, everything's fine, because it's the bad Golden Dawn, no matter whether it's the third political power of the country. This is an issue that you constantly use and apply as you wish. In view of this, of course, of the Minister, Mr Lafazani, I imagine what he would do if he was in opposition today. That's another story! In any case, we repeat this: it is unconstitutional either as an act of legislation, whether it comes as a regular bill, or in any other form. We repeat that the previous government was voted against by the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, because in its actions about three years it led the Greek economy, the Greek people, the Greek society here that led it to destruction and is not entitled to speak in any way. From that point on, we repeat that the new government, which has a great deal of tolerance for the largest part of the Greek people, has this tolerance, because it was electorally speaking, but at the moment it is doing the opposite and is being exposing itself, by bringing acts of legislation when it racing them up to a few weeks ago. In any case, the act of legislation is unconstitutional and we insist there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr. Panayotare. I don't see another colleague or another colleague want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u473	Mr President, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u474	I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to finish and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u476	Please don't complain, Mr. Mitsotakis. Here, you have the floor for two minutes and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u477	I'll need a minute. I take the last speech of the Minister as a resurgence of what he said earlier. It is our political differences, Mr Voutsi, and a deep ideological one. Let's leave them at that level. That is also an impulse to all Members, because the image of the Chamber does not honor democracy, it does not honour parliamentaryism. I would therefore ask everyone and, in particular, some of the most recent SYRIZA colleagues who rush every time in an extremely inappropriate way to dismantle the speakers, to maintain the level of dialogue where it suits them and to continue the debate and vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u478	Yes, sir. Does another colleague want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u479	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u480	Complaint now, Mr. Lykoudi! Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality which has been raised, developed and discussed in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the objection of unconstitutionality of the act of legislative content is adjourned. I would ask those who object to the anti-constitutionality of the act of legislation, to rise. [[Accepting opposition to unconstitutionality]] Apparently, the fewer were raised. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the objection of the anti-constitutionality of the act of legislative content did not gather the required number of Members and is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, I would ask you to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u482	Should non-acceptees rise too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u483	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u484	Sit down, let most of you rise. Not accepting the objection of unconstitutionality to the act of legislative content, please rise. [[Not accepting the objection of unconstitutionality]] It is obvious from here above - it is obvious, not simply obvious - that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has not arisen. The objection of unconstitutionality was therefore rejected. We move on to the debate with Mr. Demetrios Marda's competent minister. Sit down, everyone you want. We said that by 22.00 p.m. at the latest, if you wish, we will finish the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u485	But let all Members speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u486	The Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Dimitrios Mardas has the floor. How many minutes do you want, Minister? Eighteen, twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u487	Ten minutes at most, but, Mr President, how much am I entitled to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u488	Please talk to everyone, place the cards to open the list. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, be quiet! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u489	Ladies and gentlemen, the General Accounting Office of the State seeks to ensure the necessary liquidity to fulfil our obligations in the near future. This job is known to anyone who has passed through the State General Accounting Office. But everyone who has been through knows that various unforeseen changes often take place. There was an unforeseen discrepancy in the revenues of April and expenditure. We manage these amounts, we do not produce them. This discrepancy created a significant cash deficit, which would occur on 24 April. To deal with this deficit, it needed money. By the end of the month, due to VAT, the due date arrangement, etc., we could have had part or most of the difference. But from the 24th to the end of the month there was a difference some days. So in the context of our efforts to fill this gap, we have taken this act in the time we thought it was the greatest possible time to ask for this act of legislation. Of course, one day before we tabled it, we started our efforts, based on a previous amendment that we tabled and accepted, so that we could raise the money that might be missing, according to our forecasts. So began an effort that led to some results. At the same time, of course, we had the act of legislation which is now coming for ratification. As far as the results of this first attempt - and of course Mr Stavros is not here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u490	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u491	Excuse me. The world has passed through the General Accounting Office of the State knows very well how a "symbol" becomes "minus", how a "minus" becomes "symbol", how a large "symbol" becomes a smaller "symbol" and in one day. There's a dynamic in this space. And when we're about to raise money or pay some costs, that's all getting drunk, and sometime it comes to the result we want. I am referring to what two of you have previously pointed out, about what I had and how I found it, etc. I have given very detailed details of the method used in the parliamentary group and there is no reason to repeat them. It is very easy for a negative result to become a positive one and a positive one to become a negative one, because there is a dynamic one in the formulation of any entries linked to the budget. That is, I repeat, to what he stressed what we lacked and how we found it. When we find something, we can't find it at the last minute. Just there's something going on at the last minute. I would also ask for a second time when one refers to my statements to use the words or at least the meaning of my statements. Another "expectation" and another "we found them". I have in front of my statements, which I can also make in the House. That doesn't matter. Just for the second time, I would ask colleagues to use the words or concepts I use. I come to refer to some of the issues of this act of legislation, which I consider to be due to the urgent, urgent, unpredictable need is a representative act of legislative content. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Of course, I would like to point out, with a little mention of Mr Mitsotakis - and I will present it to the House, are the tables of cashiers I received on 29th month and that Mr Stagioras has them on delivery - that he confessed that we received available to the order of EUR 158,000 - I suppose - but the same tables in the February estimates showed that on 24 February the economy was entering red with a deficit of EUR 425 000. Theoretically we wouldn't pay April's wages. I'm filing it in the House. It's printing since the 29th.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u492	You knew that in January.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u493	You knew it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u494	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no. Two minutes. If I give you the next two days, you'll see another result. I repeat what I said: there is a dynamic in terms of the changes that are taking place in the General Accounting Office of the State and in general in the State Fund. If one of you would like to come to the General Accounting System and with great pleasure to show him tables for the same days or for different dates what important results they give. I can tell you - and this can be confirmed by Mr Stagioras - that on the same day we have results differently. Because one body - as the funds have come - can come and tell me that they need an additional 100 million euros. This is an unpredictable expense and automatically changes the whole list of the fund we have. If we suddenly find that revenue has some significant discrepancies, and that is a permanent one, this four-day one, in which we expect it to be changed - because something can happen - it leads to very different results. These, if you want, are written and you can very easily find them. The Bank of Greece has them, we have them and they are at your disposal whatever months you want and any days you want - and, if you want, for the same day - to see what changes are marked on two - three different dates. I come to a number of issues that were raised at the first meeting I had with the mayors. I can tell you that in my view it was a very nice meeting. Irrespective of whether there was an acidity at first, we were done very well. In five hours I gave them written texts and answered the questions of both mayors and districters. Then we also had meetings here in the House, where various issues were raised again in this House, because it is reasonable that all the representatives of this House were not present at these meetings. I summarise the following answers: The Bank of Greece's reserve account operates as a normal reserve account. There's nothing to worry about. Anyone who deposites their money in this account will get money. It won't take any change, no bonds. When you deposit your money to a commercial bank, you get money, you don't take the products that the bank invested your money, which you don't even know about. At least the entities know the product that is the change and there is no risk, as was analysed yesterday by the Bank of Greece's representative. You give a euro, you get a euro plus a return. Two of the Bank of Greece's documents were provided to all interested parties in a detailed manner and any explanations are needed in writing to understand how this tender works. We're coming to the payroll. Reimbursements do not belong to the stock account. Available is what is not committed to a particular use. In addition, the entries are five codes to a total of seventeenth revenue codes of the mayors. Let them keep the five - and we have told them and we do not have to make the slightest amendment, give the slightest circular - and give us the rest that is not a reward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u496	I mean, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u497	You're welcome. Mr. Marda, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u498	We've been through this. The kiosks, fines, space rentals and all the other hundred seventeen minus five entries are no reward fees. And there's the money to tell you differently. Cooperative banks: They have 151 million euros. Most institutions do not have enough to get them from cooperative banks, and we are monitoring this, of course. Time deposits: a mayor came in and said I have 5.8% interest rate. In 2011, not now. And others came - I was not told - and they said that this account is repeated and has a 5.8% interest rate today. Two answers to this issue. If someone has six years in a commercial money bank, it means he has a lot available. Secondly, what if the forward statement is interrupted? We have said, we are taking responsibility for the damage payment and a regulation has been prepared that will come. We don't invest in bonds. We're investing in streams. So we have stable values. I answer some positions you have in mind that is the product of questions that have been asked. As far as the universities, which I know, are concerned, there are legacy bills, property exploitation and the well-known account that is linked to the investigation. Universities' money must be in banks. These can come. The same can be done with the use of property. What does not come, which again does not need to be regulated, because they are not available: the money coming from the European Union will not come. However, as you may know, every such project leaves the university a 10% or 15%, depending on who is the university, in the sense that it is a project that is done within or in which it is, in any case, linked to someone who is engaged in a profession and who is free of charge. This amount will be here. And I'm glad you're moving your head positively. As a result, all the clarifications were made to the mayors, the districts, the universities, and we believe that any questions they had, we have resolved them at two or three consecutive meetings. In conclusion, we do not see why they should not transfer their money to the reserve account rather than to the common capital. I don't want to get you involved in details. The common capital refers to different debt instruments that may lose their value. The reserve account refers only to flows that do not lose their value and can be used by the Government if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u499	We thank the Minister in particular for keeping his time, giving us the opportunity to use him to speak as many colleagues and colleagues as possible, which is not always the case. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and three teachers - their attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform you that, if there is to be any reason, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, will now speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u500	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the anti-constitutional issue of legislative content, many important aspects have emerged, which are the basis of our vote on the ratification of this act. I will only dwell on two points to complement this argument. In particular, Mr Mardas has just told us that this act is due to unforeseen divergences in revenue. I note only that the concept of unpredictable, of course, concerns the future, not the past. So this is immediately incompatible with the retroactive effect of the legislative act. This is a point which Mr Vorides, Mr Vorides, has raised in the anti-constitutional objection, namely the incompatibility between the concept of urgency and retroactive power. I note only that this assessment includes an interesting case of work, namely that someone has the knowledge, the experience to recognise that something is urgent, has the reflexes to react to it and also has the ability to resolve the issues. That is not something, I confess, to which the government has so far used us. Perhaps if this case of work is ultimately wrong, the answer is simple: it is also unconstitutional and it is incompetent. So let's go see more aspects. Let me begin with a brief historical retrogression of the government's policy, which has led us to today's meeting, which I shall call it a sad moment. And I'm not talking about the attack we've taken from the minister and all this episode. I am referring, however, to the fact that we are basically discussing today a government confession that we are on the course of the country's bankruptcy, a confession that we are in a financial deadlock, a dead end. I begin with the pillars of the National Reconstruction Plan of SYRIZA, which was known to all of us in the Thessaloniki Programme, announced by Mr. Tsipras at the ICU in September 2014, just six months ago and which was, of course, the basis for the election of SYRIZA to the government. It is a programme which we - and from the outset - have argued to be irresponsible, impracticable and that the resources to support it are non-existent. Let's see six months later when we're in this relationship. I shall begin with the first pillar, namely the humanitarian crisis. Yes, you brought a bill - I note, with urgency and with various pointless amendments, we leave this aside for now - which, of course, is not even close to the number of beneficiaries you mentioned in the Thessaloniki Programme. In there is the thirteenth pension. That's tolerable. The 200 million budget instead of the 3 billion that you had commanded. There's no such thing as that. And after the unbearable slightness with which the Minister, last morning, from home, announces that he is missing EUR 400 million to pay the pensions for this month, which he finds until noon when he arrives at his office, I wonder if these EUR 200 million are also nonexistent. We are going to the second pillar, which is called - now listen here - 'Direct measures to relaunch the economy'. I am disappointed that it is a little strange to discuss an act of legislative content for forced internal borrowing when the government, which has reached us in three months, has promised to relaunch the economy. I'll be fair today. A hundred doses. You brought a bill, or rather you brought back a bill, which is, is supposed to be, in favour of the small and medium-sized enterprises affected by the crisis so that they can regulate their debts. And this has been accompanied by the first act of legislation that this government has brought - because this is the second - which forgives fines, tax violations, virtual invoices, counterfeit invoices for the bourgeoisie. However, we did not discuss this - the debate was postponed - because - at least that was the pretext - Mr Lafazanis had to discuss with the Russians from whom he is waiting to take 5 billion to avoid being in this situation today, to discuss forced internal lending. Here's the tax-free 12,000 euros. It's unstoppable. The abolition of the ENPIA. It's unstoppable. Red loan seism. It's unstoppable. The establishment of a development bank, while 65 billion have left systemic banks. That's unstoppable, too. Yes, sir! Let's go see the next pillar of your project to regain work, seeing and restoring industrial relations. Thirty thousand new jobs, even when unemployment is rising now. And enlargement, of course, of the number of beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit. That's so impracticable that it's not even about it. And I come to the fourth pillar, because this is obviously the current legislative act. It is the pillar that refers to the regional structure and the strengthening of the regional structure of the state. Amazing way to strengthen the regional structure of the state to get them all the money they have at their disposal to make policy on the daily lives of citizens, on projects, on children's stations, on schools! We have to take all the money from the municipalities and regions and even abandon the mayors because they are concerned. In the morning you tell us that you don't have money for wages and pensions and you leave the mayors and you dare talk about them too, saying that they're not patriots, when they tell you: 'We want to put our backs on, but can someone tell us if we get our money back, when, how do we get that story'? The Minister gave some clarifications. Let the mayors decide if they're satisfied. I, personally, think they're completely incomplete. The most important thing is that, at the same time as they blame the mayors for not putting back on them because they have party criteria, the retroactiveness of the act of legislative content, obviously, is to cover Mrs Durou, who voluntarily rushed to provide her own cash, before she became compulsory. And that, of course, had no party time like a move. However, since you are doing the legislative act, since you will vote for it, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, let us also cover Mrs Durou! The Thessaloniki Programme six months later: When the government tables an act of legislation, what Mr Tsipras and Mr Glezos said is like royal decrees, what Mr Voutsis said is law-making practice, you impose forced internal lending. Thessaloniki Program: Unresponsible, impracticable, non-existent resources! And I close my historic retreat before the elections, saying that, of course, you did not only promise that. You said some other things. You said you'd smash the memorandum, erase the debt, renegotiate for a development agreement. Yes, sir! And so the famous "hard negotiation" began: Statements on statements - but one of course, but another in the country, other than outside the country, doesn't matter - a little lifestyle so we don't lose, an empty content of communal renames in "compositions" "Brussels Group". And the first tangible act of this government was, of course, the bridge agreement of 20 February, which - to understand it - is the four-month extension of the memorandum. So the sketching of the memorial, then. Neither a law, nor an article, nor even came to the House to be discussed and voted on. This is part of the fourth pillar of the Thessaloniki program. Democratic transformation of the political system. We are now baptising, ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting. A deal? Yes, sir. Resources? Unexistent! 'We don't need them'. That is how the government said to us: 'We do not want the money.' "But how are we going to run the test, Mr Marda?" I asked you in a timely question. "I can't tell you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou," you told me. "It's a secret, because we're negotiating. Don't worry, we'll have the money in the right time." That's what the Minister said. Now I understand, Minister. So in the right time, what do we do? We do legislative acts, forced internal lending and take what is present in the general government. Yes, sir! Conferences with "institutions" in hotels, Brussels Group, Euroworking group, group therapy! And then he took it and Mr. Tsipras turned Europe, saw his counterparts, dine with Mrs. Merkel, saw her again yesterday, went to Russia, made contact with China, went to the United States, spoke to Mr. Obama. Result zero! I beg your pardon, Mr President, to correct this: no result at all. Result of zero in terms of resources. Result? Our country's credibility has been destroyed abroad. We had Mr. Obama left, we had America left, but you did that with the photographic provision for the release of Savva Xiros now and, if so, the Americans. Handling irresponsible! Impossible agreement! Resources unexistent! Here we are now. Where are we? Internal attitude of payments to individuals, taxpayers, co-financed projects. Amendment to voluntary internal lending from the general government's cash reserves. And today forced internal lending from the cash reserves of the government, the hospitals, the universities and a large number of other bodies of the general government. And the big question, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr President, is what tomorrow? What's tomorrow? Next week what? The next month we have wages and pensions again, what happens? Who'll you get the next one from? You're getting them out of the market? You're gonna play dulls and dance? I think the markets are dancing at the pace of Portugal and Ireland now. You'll get them from the Russians. You'll get them from the Chinese. You'll get them from the banks. I said to keep the level and not to mention other solutions, such as printing euros on our own, so that we can pay our obligations or pay on our own air. Let's leave this for today. However, judging by the meeting that took place yesterday, and also by the first news from today's Eurogroup, we need the money very clearly. We need a hypotension, even. And at the time when we vote on a legislative act for forced internal borrowing, we put them on the deadline for giving them, in the uncertainty, to the suffocation, to the instability you have caused. "It's not our fault," you tell me. That's what you're gonna tell me. It's the neoliberalism. It's your fault. It's Shoeble's fault. It's Merkel's fault. Do I know who's to blame? It is the international conspiracy project that exists against our country. I'm sorry, so when you fed this to Thessaloniki, wasn't it all there? You didn't know? You didn't tell the people, "We will fight and win all this by your own power. There's another road. Come with us. We have a plan. We got plan A, we got plan B. We will make it within the euro in Europe. We will also change Europe. 'Wow', said by Mr Varoufakis. Only he said "wow" and Mr Mardas yesterday. And now that they don't have to pay pensions, what's going on? I'm trying to see a plan of yours. I'm really not a conspiracy theory at all. - listening to this incredible bilingualism of yours, "we will pay our bilingual obligations", "we will not pay our partners", "when we need to choose wages and pensions", I sincerely try to resist temptation and not believe that in the end all you do is if you play a communication game. A game to bend the ideas and reactions within your own parties or, if necessary, judging by the fact that this act of legislation which had forty days to be filed in this House and three months to be debated, has come to be irresponsible today, to be a game for majority colleagues to be caught in order to finally vote on something. Because in the agreement of 20 February we did not waste our hands, we did not vote for it. But today you have stood up and today you will vote and take responsibility! There are two solutions. Either you turn to realism, honest compromise - I no longer care what it is called - and you will break with your political self or break with the partners. And a people's mandate to break with the partners you do not have, ladies and gentlemen. Some of you - some of you! - they say that the fresh people's mandate you have is to negotiate a better deal within the euro and that the responsibility that the Greek people gave you with their vote is to govern this country, on which the fate of all of us depends, not just yours. And now, after three months, do you think you'll throw the blame back to the people? Is this the responsibility, ladies and gentlemen? You throw her to the people after three months? We said it, we said it again, and we'll talk about it again. Make an honest, sustainable and socially acceptable agreement at the base of 20 February, bring it, discuss it, process it, agree and support it together. First time left. Hey, you're lucky. For the first time, you have an Opposition that says it will support you if you bring something of the pretext. Get something! Get something. Nor do we want wages and pensions to be cut, more austerity, chaos in industrial relations. Reforms we want to see, and we tell you. You have a responsibility to rule. Get something to talk about. Do it for the good of the country. That's enough with creative ambiguity. Creative ambiguity is not the result of negotiation, it's a barber. But if you cannot do this - and I fear that much of the problem may be this - at least do not ask us today to conclude an authoritarian domestic borrowing operation without telling us where you are going. Don't ask us to agree on a confession of bankruptcy in our country. Based on what we have seen, I personally have low expectations of this government in all areas, whether this is the immigration, which is melted by immigrants, where there is a minister of entry and not an exit, whether he is a minister who writes instead of taking action on his Left. In any case, these are my expectations. But please, because these hours for the country are extremely critical, I demand not as a Member but as a Greek citizen that you show basic seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u501	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Balaurras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u502	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today comes the act of legislation which sparked - and it was certain - reactions. 'Cause lately the opposition has been trying to blow anything out of the air. Today there was a lot of noise, and yesterday there was a lot of noise, and the same sounded out of rabid media, from parties and, unfortunately, from certain bodies, mainly OTAs. But to think who's talking, who's torn their clothes? Those who have been ruling so far permanently with legislative acts? Even the memorials were arranged by legislative acts. Incidentally, for you, colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK, I would like to remind you that yesterday you had an anniversary. It is the anniversary of our communication of our entry into the troika and the memorials from George Papandreou in Kastelorizos. Be duly honored on this proud day. So they came mainly from the last government - but not just from it - constantly legislative acts, but after months that had passed - if you like - and the sensitivity of the people. Others did not come at all, such as the ERT, which was an extremely political and social issue. We all know that. From a political point of view, a terrible triumph has been made in the government and from a social point of view - which we are most interested in - three thousand people have been made redundant, they have suddenly taken them off the road with 'decision and order'. Why, ladies and gentlemen, did the legislative acts not come directly to Parliament? For you fear the reactions of your MPs and the whistle of counter-population and your battling publicly in society. SYRIZA is currently faced with the lyric reaction of lenders. And Alexis Tsipras and other ministers talked about the suffering of the drop. I don't think it's the torture of the drop. It's something - we've read it in the middle - that the Americans did in Guantánamo. It's the torture of drowning. You know that torture? You're assuming. They're diving your head in. That's what our lenders are trying to do. I now come back to the legislative act we are talking about. I think the Minister was clear and in the committees we have been doing these two days, it was also clear. There was an attempt at foresight to make sure there was no accident. As the Minister has described, cash is constantly falling, rising, etc. And we have to be proactive. However, on February 22nd, the cash deficit we saw - because it was not ours, we had just begun to govern - was EUR 552 million. Shouldn't we provide for wages and pensions? We say yes. Because we need to overcome what I described earlier for a torture of drowning, namely credit suffocation. But we have a different methodology. We brought her to the House right away. It is also a mistake to other anti-population forces that they said - probably Mr. Theocharis, may also Mr. Loverdos, I do not remember which of all said it - 'On Friday you brought it because there is Eurogroup'. But what we in the committee proposed was either Friday or Monday and we accepted it unanimously. And Vangelis Diamantopoulos left to represent the committee at the Bureau meeting and this decision was taken for Friday. And what you, too, have agreed to, is now very negative. We have promoted and brought the act to be adopted by all parliamentary procedures. We just didn't bring her the way you wanted, and that bothers you, because we're something completely different. So what is our relationship with previous governments? What does the legislative act provide for? First, cash management continues by the commercial banks. Secondly, there is no unconstitutionalism as Mr. Loverdos said that just came out. And for the payroll, but also for the retrospectiveness, I think Nikos Friend responded very thoroughly. But there is the other thing Nikos Friend said, and Mr Loverdos, who is a constitutionalist, and let Mr Venizelos and all the teachers and tell us: did you vote in the previous government with retrospective acts of legislation, yes or no? Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have voted for acts of legislative substance, as you said from the Step by saying that it is, and from this point of view, unconstitutional. Yes or no? Secondly, the act provides that the planned withdrawals will be made immediately. Thirdly, that up to 10% of the total funds will also be committed. Fourthly, the institution's emergency needs will be met within two or three days. It simply cannot be done immediately, because there will be the repos which must be broken. And finally, the interest rate is high, i.e. 2.6%. And lastly, there is a guarantee of possible damage from this repos investment. The Minister said so before, and the Bank of Greece said so, namely a euro to a euro plus interest rate income. Do we know, then, that in other countries of the European Union there is this obligation, that public bodies should bear their money, their reserves at the central bank, yes or no? Do you know how the system works in the Netherlands? Much stricter, that's why I mention it. You don't know that because you don't want to. And find out yet, you won't. Most reactions are accompanying a political deliliary. All these years they swallowed the camel, and now they plunge the cone, making the hair. Today, some municipalities, including hospitals, which are not affected, against a government which is in fact - and we say it - have not been discovered by you, Mrs Asmakopoulou, and the colleagues of the New Democracy and the River and PASOK - in a war situation. We have a mandate - whether you like it or not you like it, we respect it - not to back off, not to cut off wages and pensions and all social benefits again. The government has found an economy and a society literally burnt and it is also wrong what we say, that we have taken burnt land and a broken state. We also received an economy bombed by Napalm bombs and a state bombed by the same bombs, which is not working and is rival to us in many cases. Some of the OTAs, have they so easily forgotten that the Memorandum Governments have cut their resources by 60% to 65% and are today calling? How much and when did they react? Did they reduce their staff by dismissing thousands of workers or putting them in availability? How did they react? For the state that owes them great sums that PPC collects and doesn't give them, how do they react? Did they forget that by an act of legislation the previous government did not create the OTA Observatory by order of the notorious Fuchtel? How did they react? They reacted in advance, however, with press releases for the eyes of the world. Today at least some of them are trying to react, but people are not following. One final question: How did they react to the famous PSI? They were robbed - Mrs Asimakopoulou, if you don't know it, get official information from the Bank of Greece and from elsewhere - EUR 15 billion from OTAs, from OTAs and from the insurance funds. And if we add the micrologues, you'll see that they will reach around 18 to 20 billion euros. Fifteen billion is an exact number. Unfortunately, there has been a great snatch to save German, French and other banks. What did they do then? They did not rise up because they supported the friendly government forces of the New Democracy and PASOK. On the contrary, the SYRIZA Government is already unfolding its programme towards local government. It has been included in the regulations for the hundred doses and the OTAs, reinstates fired, actively assists the municipalities. I went to say the red municipalities, but I was afraid you might make a motion of censure, meaning they are our municipalities and they are red. I am not saying this on this side, but on the part that they have been redeemed because of huge debts and we have said that we will regulate them, we will help to get loans through the Deposit and Loan Fund on favourable terms. They speak of opposition from those who robbed the reserves of the insurance funds with compulsory deposits to the Bank of Greece, with interest rates insignificant to support the industry. They took the workers' money, they had to go to the Bank of Greece with trivial interest rates. I will give you an example. In 1955, when this arrangement began, inflation was about 13% and received 5% interest. Some years I've passed. In 1980-84 the interest rate was 11% and the inflation rate was 24.5%. I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Gerasios Balaouras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This robbery will be reported by someone who's come out - and Mr. Loverdos who's made the Minister of Health and others - to say that the insurance system is bankrupt because that one, why the other? Perhaps the main cause of the problems facing the insurance system is the robbery that has taken place over so many years, which has not happened anywhere else in Europe - as we keep talking about Europe -. So, ladies and gentlemen, at the hanger's house, they don't talk about rope. SYRIZA will not deal with you, no matter how hard you try to show us the same thing as you, put us in the same dashboard. We have not only the political, but above all the moral advantage. Already we are not only resisting, but we are taking initiatives to keep the pride and dignity of the Greek people high after five memorial years, five years of frustration, humiliation and humiliation. Stop undermining the great fight of the Greek people. Tell us, finally, what do you want: negotiate as we negotiate or sign your memos and submit as you do? That's what the Minister said earlier and became a loaf. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr SYRIDON LYKOURIS, takes over the F.]] There is a dilemma that you will not avoid either in the House, in society, in the cafes or in the people. And the dilemma is: What do you advise? What is the view of the Opposition about what we're going to do? Become an Opposition at last! Stop appearing like the translators of Europe's old age. Because as translators you are in danger of being classified, not to say that you have already been designated. We will not betray the hopes and expectations of our people. Dogs, they say a proverb, they fly, but the caravan of SYRIZA goes back and leave the rabid dogs behind and the hyenas of the political and economic establishment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. English precision in time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u504	Absolute!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u505	Absolute! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Ermoupolis Syros. Our dear children, welcome! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios Galeos has the floor on the subject of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr President. I want to thank on behalf of the Golden Dawn and me personally, both SYRIZA and the Government. Why? Because we went out from the outset and told the world that we were the only antimonetary power within Greece. Suddenly, nine months ago, SYRIZA came out, took our positions from our website, replicated them, but he also enriched them with some other positions, such as getting the money from the Church, from the property of the Church - money to be and wherever it is, these - or to cut off the military expenses, because it seems that he doesn't care if the Turks take a walk in the Aegean or perhaps even if the Turkish war planes arrive in Corfu, he won't have any objections. That is why he also made a little communication, so that he could look a little more antimony. He said he'd hire the cleaners, raise the wages, do things like re-entry to the public, etc. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, communication is very good, but when you say you cannot do it, it is hollow words and nothing else! Now, however, SYRIZA is no longer opposition, it is in the government, and these words must do so. He started negotiating. I will tell you the negotiations that SYRIZA has made so far and I am not going to use the words of the Golden Dawn, but the words of the SYRIZA itself, and of the first-time elements of both SYRIZA and the Government. He baptized the fish meat, one of you said. He said the Troika "institutions", the Memorandum made it "a deal" and we continue. Of course, he made this big mistake. He well started, he said, that his orientation is European, that the country's European orientation will never be called into question, and he also said that he will never come out of the euro. These two things were one of the biggest thing he had to deal with. I'm not saying he's gonna do it, negotiate and keep his things. No, he threw it away. And apologise for the expression, but our partners, the loan sharks, as we say to them, have understood that also mistakes to eat will continue. And the first slap came. A haircut on the debt. Nein. Smaller surpluses. Nein. Residential loan. Nein. Compensation. Nein, gentlemen. And I wonder. The President of Parliament, whom I personally appreciate, why does he sit there and make commissions on the mortgage loan and on all of this? It's a gift free. To dismantle them, not to pay those who go there too. I continue with an issue that I never wanted to talk about, and the reason is why last year I was not in the House, I listened to various modern expressions, such as what they said 'democracy has no deadlock'. Yes, sir. Democracy has no dead end, and should not have it. Democracy cannot have a dead end, because democracy is an institution. However, those who push us to the deadlock are the representatives of democracy, and at the moment it turns out that the state, Greece and the nation have dead ends, gentlemen. That's how we are. There was another very friendly phrase in the House: 'free dudes'. Whoever came out here talking to the other free guys. The people outside believed that the House was only made up of free guys, gentlemen, and it seems to me that it was not wrong. That is why I did not want to refer to creative ambiguity, I wanted to overlook it. I wanted to say 'an apology', 'a wrong word', 'a wrong expression of the Minister of Finance', but unfortunately you are forcing me, because instead of covering the fact, the Prime Minister is coming out, and Mr. Friends has also come out and said that we are basing our negotiations on this. They gave us new impulses, showed us new ways. Wrong, gentlemen. You don't have to have negotiating lessons to know how to negotiate. Visit a small, simple course rhetoric. The first thing they'll tell you is that the most important thing, before you make a reason, is knowing who you're addressing. And who are you addressing, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Or even Mr. Varoufakis, who was he addressing? It was addressed to the Germans. Especially the Germans who do what they want. Who are renowned to, gentlemen? As people gründlich - they say it in German - who pay great attention to detail. And you show up and talk to them about creative ambiguity. Immediately, Mr Shoeble answers: 'The list you gave us with the measures you will take is an ideal report'. This is your creative ambiguity. On the other hand, it shows what Germany wants. Has it been lost to take a decree of the German Parliament to see how clear and how precise it is either a company calculation or a study of a large German company and to read the details it contains? But no. You went rough and unprepared. Do you know what the Germans say to talk about as we should talk? When one goes unprepared, there are three cases, three traits. The first and the easiest, getting superficial and saying you're unreliable, because to someone who hasn't studied what he says you can't trust him, you can't show him faith in what he says, he's unreliable. The second one - it may seem a little heavier, but it's not the heavier - is that you're lazy, because you have a job to do and you don't finish it. The third is that you don't have the ability to do these studies, these negotiations. So, gentlemen, you're incompetent. Take whoever you want. I don't know what the Germans got. We now come to the point of legislation. I also told the committee that we are limiting liquidity. First - first, this is a bad feature. I will give you an example of my region, of my region. In the Prefecture of Argolidos, and specifically in the Municipality of Kranidios, temporary people, who are road-cleaners, have been hired to clean up the municipality. These people have two months to be paid, and now from what they've learned they're going to get paid in May. In this mess are the municipalities. You tell me these municipalities won't be included, they have no money to give us. But that's how the rest of the people who are currently giving you their money will end up. I will not go into the unconstitutional. I think the previous ones developed it. But I cannot understand in this House either you or the New Democracy. You came with an act of legislation and the New Democracy called you, which had done so. You, with what you have done, 'legize' the former acts of the New Democracy. And she shouts. What does he call after he did it, instead of saying "well, ladies and gentlemen, you are taking us out of responsibility"? The second thing that impressed me is that you have tried to pass this act of legislation quickly and quickly and quickly. Look, gentlemen, both within the House and the people understand us. They know what we're saying and what we're doing. Don't think we can make fun of anyone inside or outside the House. Those who tried to get the same luck, you see them. Of course it's something else. You won't use this money to pay pensions. This money will be used to pay the loan sharks. All that you have said is that first the Greek people and then the foreigners, then the lenders - as you used to say to them, now they are partners - have no substance. You either paid them and you are now missing from the pensions or you cover them so that you can pay them and the pensions. It's the same result. Of course, there is another last step, which would not surprise me if you did, and I am sure you are going that way. You're going to take the step. There is a part of this Parliament that has been begging you since the beginning. Don't you hear that? Of course, you have the fear that some of you may be disrespected, perhaps rise and leave, but there is also the part of the House that tells you: “Where are they? Bring us a memorandum and we will vote on it." That's what he tells you. That's how he's learned. He's looking forward to cutting wages and pensions. Help it. What are you doing? Why negotiate, I can't see. Or you have already signed it and you are trying to find the way in which you are going to make it to us, because it is not in any way in line with your election statements, or, unfortunately, the negotiations will not have a happy ending. You may be negotiating, you may say what you want, but they won't have a happy ending. Or they'll have a happy ending if you sign them together with the New Democracy. Otherwise I don't see a solution. In any case, we in this legislative act will vote against it in principle, both on the articles and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u507	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The rapporteur from the party Potami, Mr Charakides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my introduction, I should like to express my disappointment at two things: firstly, about the situation that I experienced as a new Member of Parliament some time ago, and secondly, because now that we are having a civilised debate, we are twenty people in this Chamber. That says a lot about the citizens who see us. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative act is the government's confession that it cannot fulfil its obligations, which was already stated in the House by the Ministers. Otherwise, what exactly is the emergency and unforeseen need for the provision of Article 44 of the Constitution to be finally activated? But what is unpredictable? Where a fact cannot be predicted during the normal development of things, it has finally occurred. Do we have a case like this? No, unforeseen and unforeseen. This is not an unforeseen situation, but a failure of the government to prevent a specific event that was sure to occur if it failed the Greek people's mandate to negotiate and even better than the former government, as she said in election. And I wanted to ask here, because the Minister told the committee that they had to resort to this regulation, because there was a discrepancy in the revenues of the month of April, if there was a discrepancy, will you bring other legislative acts to the House for other bodies available? Why am I saying that? Because yesterday or the day before yesterday we heard Mr Voutsis in the committee describe this act as a legislative act as the peculiarity of legislative acts. Mr Mardas described it as a representative. I would like to ask: The news, the one that was postponed, and it was for Tuesday that will be next week, how will it be termed? Will it be the abstraction of legislative acts? How's she supposed to be named after all? The government, ladies and gentlemen, must bear in mind that every time it brings sudden urgent measures, it will cause disturbance to the Greek society, which no longer knows what dawns on the next day. Of course, there seems to be no hope of prospect, no way out of the vicious circle of long-term immobile. The government, led by the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, who has never honoured with his presence so far, despite several meetings, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, has to come to the press at some point to inform the Members of Parliament of how the negotiations with the partners are taking place. We cannot learn from foreign press reports - the most recent one was the 'BLOOMBERG' agency - that the Greek delegation has come to an agreement on some points, while on other issues it remains a dissatisfaction. I would like to know: Is this act of legislation also on the positive points that the Brussels Eurogroup expects, so that this process has been completed in order to have the honest agreement, which the Prime Minister is also saying to us? As regards the content of the legislative act, I have the following to point out: Firstly, there is no description of the exceptional and unforeseen needs imposed by this act. Secondly, there is no justification in substance for the retroactive effect of the legislative act, although - and fortunately - Mr Mardas himself and the region have said that it is for them to cover for the Attica region, which they have taken a long time ago. It is, however, unprecedented to come with a retroactive force of thirty-five days - I think - a legislative act. Thirdly, there is also no clarification of the timing of the regulation. After you had made such an intervention, you should have at least taken care to reassure yourself by saying how long the provision will be. And that is one of the points that mayors and regional leaders are concerned about. The legislative act makes two references and makes all of us concerned. He says, "Submit to testify..." so, in the dilemma. Another sentence says: 'As a general principle, this will be done'. So it started and will continue to happen. Fourthly, there is no list of bodies in detail in the bill. Yesterday, we heard the Minister say that the AACC - that is, the new generation's pension fund - will ultimately not have a problem with this act of legislation. And we don't know what's gonna happen to the universities and to some of their coke codes. Retrospective clarification has been given. I think, at least at that point, we've all been covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u509	They were already in a stream.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u510	Yeah, yeah. Explanations were given. We're talking about the AAA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u511	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u512	The Result Assessment Report states that the transfer of the funds to the Bank of Greece achieves the best return on the capital to be invested. Of course, this is where the rhetorical question comes if we finally have an act of legislation so quickly with retroactive power to give more interest in local government money. Because here too, the mayors - and quite rightly so - have their reservations. All the municipalities with 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.5%, more than 2.6%, who will cover them for the money they will make available to the Bank of Greece? And this legislative coverage of the mayors must be made. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative act jeopardises the fundamental functions of critical services and structures of municipalities and bodies, particularly payments relating to third parties, because it was also stated by the mayors that only in hearing that there will be problems of payment or rush to demand their money sooner or the municipalities fear that they will stay open and make payments higher and a small panoramic has already been created. And the government here should be even more reassuring, because we know what it means to be on the market that things are not going well. I would also like to remind you of what SYRIZA was saying as far as local government was concerned, when I was the mayor. It was right, and then SYRIZA said about the large reductions in local government, about the pandemics that local government was pulling, saying about the cuts - from 5.5 billion - and, as I said yesterday, it was four, five times the money we gave for the five scoops, the planes that we want to modernise. Today, however, this government should take care of the municipalities more, as it said before, not with special funds, but at least with a better degree of success, because these are the bodies which are naturally supervised by Mr Voutsis, who are next to the citizen, whose citizens are especially in need of a period of humanitarian crisis which is plagued by our country. If such cuts had been made, as in the municipalities, in economics, but also in waste to the central government, we would not be in this mess today, we would be somewhere else and instead of talking about deficits, we would be talking about surpluses. I would like to ask: if the Ottawa cash is out of cash, what will be the next move of the government to meet its obligations? So tell us whether we will have internal borrowings for three months, as you say, but you do not write it in practice or if we will have more. In other words, we need to know how, in how and when the money will be repaid to the OTAs, and indeed what sources of revenue. That's what mayors ask. As also, we do not know what the new ways of meeting future needs are. May, say, what's next? Should we expect other acts of legislation, as I said before, for other available cash institutions that have been untapped? We still have Community funds, farmers' subsidies, the funds available for the insurance funds, not everyone, because some of them have already been taken by the government. As we see from the publications, there is particular pressure on their administrations in this direction, and even there has already been a document from the Bank of Greece, which has been sent to both the Ministries and the institutions in order to drive their cash there. I wonder: has there been a loan plan from the outset, first and second, in this direction? Because we also remember the statement made by Manolis Glezou that we might go into compulsory borrowings between citizens and the state. If you have this in the back of your mind, you have to state that this is your choice, that this is the second plan you have. And there you should answer whether you had that in your mind and if that happens, why you allowed these three months to leave more than 30.35 billion, maybe today and more, from the banks and go abroad or be in the chests. I would like here to point out something which I sincerely deplore as a citizen, but also as an entrepreneur and certainly as a Member: all the things that are happening here today reminds us of the road to Cyprus and that is regrettable. And there we had a downgrading of the country to "CC" by "FITCH", we have the degradation of our country from the same house and we saw what has happened. We should all try to avoid that. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that every check has been lost. The government runs a panic to deal with the consequences of its incomplete policy and it is now beginning to emerge dramatically in serious liquidity problems in the day-to-day functioning of the state. The country's negotiating power is being dismantled as long as the time passes. We all saw how alienated the Greek delegation was in Riga, Latvia yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, the government must immediately do two things. Firstly, he has to inform about the state of the country's public finances. Secondly, it must inform the Greek people, since it does not inform the Greek Parliament, of the progress of the negotiations and of its positions. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister if there is any feasibility of this negotiating tactic. If there is, tell us. Because at least we do not see a positive result. What we see, as you and we all admit, is that money has not come since August 2014 and we have been under suffocating pressure with our available resources, with everything that that implies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. We therefore call on the Government to rethink its legislative act and to come to the National Representation in order to inform exactly what is happening in our economy, so that we can all be assembled for the salvation of our country. This is a patriotic duty, not to lead the country blindly. It is not a patriotic duty to "hand" on the buckets of the municipalities and citizens, when prominent government and parliament officials already have their money insured abroad. Although the Group of the European People's Party has asked for the Greek people and this House to be informed, which of us Members, and especially who of the government have their money abroad, so far has not happened today. Although the Potami has provoked and called for the first example of support for the economy and the government to come from the ministers who have their money abroad, who must bring their funds here in Greece and safely put them to the Bank of Greece, no one has done so far. This is an act of patriotic duty and this must be done here. In conclusion, the Potami has called for political leaders to be convened under the President of the Republic. Our chief, Stavros Theodorakis, says it every day. I think this should be done, to inform the political leaders and all of us, to be in a national coalition and then the best result will come. We, as a river, are voting against the act of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to agree on something. Three colleagues, Mr Synthrakis from the JRC, Mr Karcassoulis from Potami and Mr Mitaris from New Democracy have submitted a request to be retrospectively included in the list already shared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u514	Not to the detriment of the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u515	For several reasons they could not be registered. Mr. Kartsoulis was in the Civil Service Committee, which met and could not be here, in the inconvenience that took place outside, Mr. Syntrakis could not be registered. Anyway, that doesn't matter now. It is important that the parliamentary representatives of all the parties and the government with the Minister agree that the three Members could be added to the list, even if they are out of order. I would like to ask the House to approve this, let us say, 'irregularity', in order to shape a better climate in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u516	Of course, there is no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u518	Yes, Mr. Comrade, but tell me why.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u519	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u520	Here, you have the floor on a point of order, but to be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u521	I'll be brief. It has also been observed that the debates provided for in the Rules of Procedure do not have the opportunity to speak simply as Members of Parliament. The ministers, the representatives, are given unlimited time, but they are not given to ordinary Members. I would therefore ask that, if they are to be listed, they should be brought to an end after the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u522	And we're just MPs. We're working class.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u523	Mr. Colleague, they're probably coming in at the end. People didn't ask for anything else. We'll try together to keep the process. I have to tell you that at the level of the rapporteurs, in addition to one-minute speeches, we have a very good time and we have a very good debate. Thank you very much. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by pointing out that, in the course of the debate on unconstitutionalism, our position suggests our complaint that it has been formulated by both the Government and the Qualified Opposition to repeat a meaningless bipartisan argument because, in fact, both agree with the content of the legislative act. In our view, however, the Bureau also has responsibilities, which had to put the matter to the vote immediately and prevent this 'dog fight' from taking place. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in committee, the government has, I would say, made an ambitious effort to convince all of us that we need to put our backs on the table in order to make a compromise to prevent the country from having a "court", bankruptcy, to withstand June, so that the overall agreement with the partners is signed by ensuring a minimum liquidity until then. Every time things are all the same, they're all the same. And the government does this because it has, it says, red lines, it does not say 'yes' to everything, it negotiates hard, of course, with a view to saving the country and, indeed, that all this is done in the context of pressure, blackmail and financial suffocation imposed on us by our equal partners. Yes, sir, Mr. Voutsi... Minister, I would like you to hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u525	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u526	So Mr Voutsis has called on the Communist Party of Greece because, as he said, he does not take a stand, we do not explain why there is this attitude by the equal partners, that is, against the current government, since the Communist Party of Greece accuses them of following an anti-popular policy. Only the Minister consciously did not mention who is blackmailing us, putting the loop in the neck - I am talking about the committee. Let us go beyond - mainly because of time - the question of why the 'equal partners', as you call them, are blackmailing us and wanting the evil of the country and of the workers, as well as the question of how we cannot live without the blackmailers, as you call them. You negotiate hard - with or without introductorys, that is not my question - but on whose behalf, Minister? You're telling us to save the country. Yes, sir. Yes, but in this country there are workers, self-employed, merchants and craftsmen, there are farmers. But there are also industrialists, shipowners and bankers. Are you really negotiating for everyone's sake? But here there are conflicting interests and your Government with what interests are? You have already given the answer when you passed the law on management - I stress it - of the humanitarian crisis. Then let me remind you that for the crumbs you have decided not to take a single euro from the shipowners and industrialists. Of course, they will develop, help to relaunch the economy. How can we get them to pay extra taxes? But, Minister, contrary interests exist not only between the workers and the civil order of our country. Contradictory interests and competition exist between the bourgeois classes of the countries of the European Union and globally. There to see how acidic competition is. Have you ever seen a buffalo fight? That's what this is about. These interests, these competitions, are at the negotiating table that you are sitting on. For the interests of our country's bourgeoisie you bleed with or without introductory terms. These interests go into the scale and, as always, in such cases it always turns towards the side of the powerful bourgeoisie, strong and economic and military. This explains how the behavior and opposition of representatives of the civil classes of other countries to your Government is explained. And these interests of their own bourgeoisie are defending, as are you, and not the peoples of their countries in general and beyond. However, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the reasons which the Government demands for enforcing the legislative act, it is once again clear that when you implement an anti-grassroots policy, when you consider the profits of large business groups to be sacrosanct and loyal, when you do everything it takes to support and strengthen these profits, when you say to all tons that you will pay up to a penny and to the perpetrators, then you also have to follow such practices as anti-democratic or anti-constitutional. In the opinion of the Communist Party of Greece, we must not only see the tree but the forest as a whole, the big picture. The big picture is that the government is negotiating on the basis of the agreement which it itself signed on 20 February with the equal partners, an agreement which has not yet been voted on, but not even a debate in this House. It is an agreement that extends the loan contract, which in practice means an extension of the memorandum for at least four months until, of course, they sign the large agreement, that is, the new memorandum in June. It is an extension of the memorial regardless of how they baptize it, because it has all the antimony works, it has an evaluation. So, all these days, what's going on in the various group? It has budgetary discipline, balanced budgets, but also primary surpluses and equivalent and costly measures. That's what you signed. It has all that for which our people have been battered over the past few years, with the governments of both the New Democracy and the PASOK. That is why the government has not dared this transitional agreement to bring it to Parliament. What do you think? If this agreement had polite content, would it have been hidden from the House? The great picture shows us in the best way that for this debt we have to pay for the biennial and the repayment of instalments, this act of legislation also becomes possible until June, when we sign the large agreement, to ensure minimum liquidity until then. But what happens then, in June, that is, more or less - on the basis of the experience of two and a half months - is known. You are looking for money for infrastructures and subsidies for large capital to relaunch the economy. So burn to settle the debts and get new loans and all together - old and new - load them on the backs of the Greek people. As far as the rights of workers are concerned, this capitalist development must remain broken. Are we overreacting? The Minister for Finance, a few days ago, with his statements, made sure he gave assurances about these things. "We want new intelligent employment relationships and contracts in the private sector. And, in cooperation with the social partners, be careful - 'we will intelligently regulate the labour market'. For insurance he said: "It is impossible for such a system to work. They need smart financial tools to support insurance." And how? "We will have to overcome ideologies that ensue us." This is what Mr Varoufakis said from the metropolitan city of capitalism. Every day you all say that you will respect the rules of the European Union. But these are the conditions which impose the balanced budgets, the memoranda, surveillance, the surpluses, that is to say the continuation of austerity. This is what is happening in all the countries of the European Union precisely for this reason, so that capital can be competitive. Ladies and gentlemen, from what has been proved to be a constant request from the institutions, namely the troika, it is the question of the snatching of public bodies' reserves, a request which has been quick to satisfy with the legislative act. In our view, therefore, it is not based on the argument that this regulation, that is to say the imposition of the legislative act, is of an exceptional nature. This measure was at the negotiating table and with the previous government, the co-government between New Democracy and PASOK. The most likely, therefore, is that this is a permanent measure, with the aim of effectively monitoring and compelling State expenditure. Secondly, why is there retroactiveness of the legislative act? In our opinion, we need to cover some of the decisions that have been taken and legitimise the moves that have been made. Thirdly, it is clear that this act is an internal debt loan - and the Minister of State admitted it here today in the House - and, of course, sacrifice the people's needs. But internal lending is classic. Why? Take, for example, the two acts of legislation brought about by the current government. In the first, it deletes fines imposed on large business groups: fines for smuggling, extradition of fake invoices, concealing taxable material, non-reimbursable VAT and others. And with the second one - the one we're talking about - what's she doing? The money it grabs is money and necessary resources that, instead of going to meet the needs of the people, end up with lenders. Therefore, the new conflict also catches the thread of anti-popular politics from where the previous one left it. So, what's happened so far? We have had cuts from the state budget of grants to municipalities, regions, hospitals, sports centres and others, so that a number of activities and services are reduced, limited and frozen, necessary projects for the people, increased recompense and others. All this remains as it is. It doesn't change anything at all. The legislative act brought about by the current government takes one step further. It binds the cash resources of the municipalities, regions and other public bodies, and at the same time moves forward in the commitment of the reserves of the insurance funds with decisions of their administrations, for the same purpose, of course. Fourthly, why does the legislative act have exceptions? We have not received a reply to this question, which we have put to the committee. Why, for example, are companies listed on the stock exchange in which the State retains participation? Why are ECHO excluded? Because they also have private capital. There's the private. And why should the ECHO not also take the high interest rate that the Bank of Greece has to pay, as the government claims? In order to avoid the shareholders of these enterprises taking the risk that other public bodies, local government agencies, will take. Therefore, the argument that all this is being done in order to increase the interest rate, to make better use of the cash available for the benefit of public, local administration is not believed, in our view, by the small children. We, without adopting reasonable catastrophe, do not agree that there is no question of this act of legislation in this matter. It is certain that there will be negative consequences for all workers and peoples. This move, in our view, is not a fragmentary one. To the extent that it is part of a specific logic, which I mentioned earlier, it will have certain negative effects, as is the following. It will prepare the ground to increase reciprocity, put the people in the pocket even deeper for necessary works and services than the municipalities. It will pave the way for further reductions in grants from the state budget to all these agencies. Many mayors in the recent past have invoked the lack of money to limit activities, reduce technical programs, shrink and deceive services, increase municipal fees. It paves the way for cooperation with private individuals, the so-called PPPs, to continue to privatise social structures through the action of Social Cooperative Enterprises, the COMEPs. The opinion of the Communist Party of Greece is this: First of all, you must take your hands off the workers' money, now stop any commitment of the cash reserves and reserves of the insurance funds, the municipalities, regions and other public bodies. Reimbursement of what has already been committed and the losses suffered in recent years, as is the case with the PSI. It is unacceptable that such a measure should be withdrawn and not implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Minister, we tell you as clearly as possible: do not think of applying disciplinary measures to those who do not apply the act of legislation. Finally, I would like to say this. Of course, there is a way out in a philosophical direction to the benefit of the people. However, there can be only the struggles that challenge and conflict with the strategy of the European Union and the parties that support it. The road to popular prosperity goes through unleashing from the European Union, with popular power, socialising the means of production and unilateral debt write-offs. For this outlet, the people are calling on the Communist Party of Greece to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Independent Greeks has the floor, Mr Kammenos Dimitris.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u528	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to the Minutes of the House all the notes we have from the Bank of Greece since yesterday, so that we all have them in a file and that we know exactly the procedure from the Bank of Greece. I think that not all colleagues are informed by the Committee on Economic Affairs of how the Bank of Greece will manage this amendment in financial terms and not just. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is also worth - and I would ask you very much - to get into yesterday's Minutes to read the questions and specifically the answers of Mr Michalopoulou, the representative of the Bank of Greece, as well as the answers to the questions of all the bodies of Mr Marda and some of my own and any other speakers. In particular, however, read with care and contact all stakeholders, municipalities, OTAs, voters, friends, the answers of Mr. Michalopoulou of the Bank of Greece, which are extremely precise, simple and complete in the style and cover of all the questions. This bill is urgent. We know the emergency. I do not want to mourn this House and my colleagues. We have spoken three days about the urgency, the cash issue that emerged for only three days. If we had to pay salaries and obligations for its first month, the need for this decree would not even arise. Nevertheless, it has been done, so it has to be done for the good of the country and for the money of the OTAs and all the carriers that contribute are fully guaranteed. Mr Mardas said one by one, we will not go into technical details or anything else. I am going to speak a little politically and to re-evaluate, as I say, in this Chamber, but also for those who are watching us from the television network, and I will say that the self-government yesterday presented themselves as independent self-government, who strongly reclaimed their rights, which no one disputes, because we all belong to a municipality and have rights and obligations to the municipality that we belong to and reside with, we and our families. Nevertheless, I have discerned a political texture on all the arguments. Yes, although there were several practical issues, but the political texture on practical issues when you represent citizens, like us as politicians when we represent voters, the people who voted for us and not only, all citizens, must be clear and not be political and should not be jeopardised. I would also like to mention to this House - because many of you yesterday were not present at the committee meeting, I was surprised, I denounced it - the CEDEFOP letter in writing calling on all members of the CEDEFOP to unlawful and not to enforce the law that goes through the Presidential Decree. It made me an excellent impression that came in writing. I asked for it to be withdrawn because it is completely illegal, and I do not know if it is being punished, and I am not the expert on the subject, but I did not like to read in writing a written order to their colleagues to unlawful. Destructiveness is not currently helping anything. As we see these days, there is a good climate in Europe, although the government, which we support and participate in, has negotiated hard. We don't, everyone says so. We see the irritation of the partners, which is diffuse throughout all Europe's lengths and backs, both banking and politics. I believe - and as I have heard the statements, and I have been deciphered, if you want Mrs Merckel and the Prime Minister - there will be a solution and I would like to see the effort that we are all doing - I think that we have honestly criticised, but also honestly to give solutions - that we should all be on the same side, because Greece will win, neither will Dimitris, Alexis, nor Elias, nor Elias. Let's go a little on the subject, which has been forgotten. Let me remind everyone when the municipalities and the CEDE come and tell us about matters of abuse of presidential decrees, I remind everyone and especially friends of viewers from the Parliament's channel that during the last four years the Greek administration and self-government have been governed by Mr Fuchtel. Mr. Fuchtel is an active German State Secretary for Labour and commissioned Commissioner to control Greek local government. I would also remind everyone that no mayor for four years today complained about the actions and role of Mr Fuchelle in Greece, rather than complaining to the government today, which without any risk to the municipality's money and with any provision for any financial need, is responsible for asking for a medium-term, short-term help to solve our cash problem. No one's ever thought of speaking in public. Why is that? What were all the mayors afraid of? Were they afraid of Mr. Fuchelle? Were they afraid of Mrs. Merkel? Were they afraid of Mr. Samaras, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Papandreou, who brought the memorandum? Were they afraid of the Commissioner? And I close by saying that Mr. Fuchelle had asked for two things. I will remind everyone - I have the files here, I will submit them, I want everyone to know and have common knowledge in everything - the questionnaire sent to the municipalities and asked for all the confidential information of the municipalities from energy reserves to citizens' databases and citizens' habits and many mayors have contributed to it and I did not see anyone resist. He had pityed me very much as a citizen, who I was half the days in Greece and some others abroad, this tactic that a foreign Commissioner comes and - if you like - governs Greek local government. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, the Greek state of that time helped Mr. Fuchtel. Nor did the Greek state of that time ever come to say: "Mr. Fuchelle, please, this information you are asking for is completely confidential. It is personal data of people and an asset of the municipalities". To close by saying that Mr. Fuchelle, for those you don't know, has tabled a proposal. Who was that? The exploitation of the buildings of the municipalities. I guess you've never heard of that. His proposal was: He would collect all municipal real estate and property of the municipalities in real estate, put them on guarantee, to borrow municipalities in risky or less risky investments. This was done almost in secret and, of course, with the government’s blessing. In other words, the mayors who today come and criticize us have played for at least four years in the papers and in agreements, which have fortunately not yet been signed - as far as I know, but we will control it - the buildings of the municipalities, which are not part of the mayor or the municipal council. They belong to the public. It's the city's property. They cannot guarantee loans that are doubtfully effective. I heard about internal lending. I would remind you that domestic lending has taken place in this country over the last five years at rates unbelievable in global financial times. The deposits in Greece have unfortunately reached EUR 131 billion from EUR 230 billion that was in 2008 and 2009. This is a bleeding, yes, it's an internal lending. This money didn't get tired like in Cyprus, unfortunately. And in Austria, you should know, the accounts are tired, as in Cyprus, but we did not learn it in democratic Greece from the democratic channels that govern us. But they got indirectly tired. Taxes have been reduced, carved, millions of our fellow humans are unemployed and eat their flesh from the deposits. That's called internal lending. To pay who, five years now? Substantial measures, 27% of unemployment, 60% for young people, were dismantled by gross national product. And they're telling us today about internal lending, when the program we're doing is completely secured one by one, the money can get it at all times up to 10%, and with a reasonable warning of two, three, five days, the rest of our money? There's the ability, there's the inability. But there is also political inability. I see to many colleagues from the previous government a political inability to manage their mistakes. I would honestly expect them to say that they have made mistakes, to name them and to advise us as colleagues what we should not do from the mistakes made by them. Not to come and advertise their mistakes as right and say, no, I want the memorandum, no, I want you to sign any terms, no matter what sacrifice, to bleed the people back, to disperse Greece, to make me politically correct. I do not understand the arguments of this kind at all. As the honourable Minister has said, the municipality's returns are excluded. The cooperative banks will manage them very carefully. There's a sensitive spot there. I have personally disagreed, because they were not properly and nationally involved in the national interest, when they did not participate in the increase of the Pan-Hellenic share capital, where they participated, despite having made massive withdrawals of EUR 1 million and EUR 2 million - because these amounts had - and they dissolved Pan-Hellenic and we had to pay back five days ago and cut it in bad and good. I'll see you next week. A question was raised yesterday whether or not the Bank of Greece, because it is not a commercial bank, can manage the hundreds, if you like, that will fall from municipalities possibly to call or withdraw deposits of assets invested. The Bank of Greece has confirmed through Mr. Michalopoulou that there is no such issue, so we reassure all the mayors and friends of Otta and the regions that the Bank of Greece will manage the situation in a manner that guarantees 100% of all funds and the process. A reasonable question was raised, and the Minister answered it, and it was about closed and frozen deposits of agencies we ask for the money to be transferred to the Bank of Greece. This is a very important matter. It is known to everyone that this is the case with criminal clauses. As the Minister said, we will deal with the matter. I have to tell the House that on my own initiative - and I am announcing it to the Minister, although I have informed him, of course, because we always agree - I have made four letters to the governors of the four systemic banks. I'll submit them to the Secretariat as well. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letters, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to ask, in exceptional circumstances, for this procedure alone - and I repeat: exceptionally, for this procedure alone - to undertake to finance the costs of the break-up of fixed-term deposits and not to incur the Greek State. I already have two oral positive suggestions. I'm waiting for the writings. So we don't spend that cost in public. Yeah, we'll handle it. Yes, we do. And finally, the banks realised that they have a responsibility to all of us, to bear a cost, to help a government that is responsible to them. In conclusion, I would like the citizens of this country to trust this government. We'll win. And it is the only thing for sure, because honesty and logic always win. The irrationality, paranoia and polarized policy cannot be defeated, which breaks a country, and at the same time the country's dismantling, at least financially, demand that it receive EUR 320-340 billion from the broken, failed country, failed state. He's lying to his voters. We must tell our own voters, and we must be honest, if you want, to the voters of all creditors, that we are here to help, work together to develop, pay what needs to be paid. We have the committees, in which we are all democratically involved, and we can thus check what has to be paid. We are a sovereign state. I'm glad - and I'm closing up - that Mr. Catanen came to us today and told us about the Juncker package. We had a very good conversation. I would also very much ask you to see the minutes and suggestions of all those involved, see what ideas they have, how this country can go ahead with this Junker package, in what procedures, what the role of national parliaments is, how we make decisions, how the committees are, how the investments will be controlled. We work for the good of our country and not for our own good. And if we make mistakes, we'll recognize them, we'll apologize. But I would like the oldest, who have ruled four years and managed this whole universe of destruction of the memorials to come and help us and tell us what they saw and what they heard to help us and all to win. Do not speak or help do harm and are enemies of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u529	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELETERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty students and students and six school attendants from the Private Municipal School "Greek School of Drakou Larissa" and the Municipal School of the French Kilkis. Welcome, dear friends. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the last of the rapporteurs has the floor, Mr. Andreas Loverdos. Immediately afterwards, we'll be on the speaker list. They're registered 50. I shall now give the floor to the President-in-Office of the Council, the first six, who are in turn in order to keep it in mind. It is Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Mr Christos Stagiras, Mrs Despina Sveroni-Hondonasiou, Mr Spyridon Lykoudis, Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos and Mr Vasilis Kegeroglou. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we have also discussed this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are in real panic. We remember you very well over the years when our country has been plagued by this dramatic economic crisis with dramatic social tensions, we remember when we said that the country is at war and we are soldiers in this battle, walking us, being irony, provoking us and characterizing us in the worst possible ways, insulting to us, our families, the party we belong to. You were supposed to abolish the memos. You said that as an official opposition. You had cost the programme of Thessaloniki with great precision. Postgraduately, for a very long time you repeated the same rhetoric, claiming, even when you spent the 11.2 billion to our partners, that you don't need money because you have money. In fact, the current Deputy Minister for Finance managed the first days of his political prestige - which was inappropriate - coming out every day in the news releases or in the news shows claiming he has money. We have told you that it is not right for you to say one day, but for you to say the other, but in the morning, but in the evening, and not on meanings or concepts, but on numbers. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the issue of the primary surplus: 3.9 in the morning, 1.5 in the evening. We told you that it was not right for the Minister, but for the Deputy, but for one Minister, but for the other, and we believed that this multilingualism was a matter of disobedience and that you would overcome it. All governments at first have operating problems and time solves them, the rulers themselves will solve them at times. But you've broken all the records, dear Deputy Minister of Finance. You said nine o'clock and more at ten and half, and not for concepts - I say again - or meanings, but for the state of the public fund. You didn't have four hundred million for wages and you found them. You give detailed explanations. Your political mistake has also been made to us, it is obvious that you have not found the euro. The government packed you up and well did it for picking you up. We have said, ladies and gentlemen, that there are very specific, finite sources of revenue extraction for a state. The best of all, the one the Prime Minister recognised as Prime Minister, but did not recognise as parliamentarian, Chief of Representation of the Minor, and after the major, is development. Now you're saying that. If you don't have this or even if you have it and you need more - everyone needs more - you have three sources: first, the markets. All the others who have faced a dramatic economic crisis have resorted to the markets with excellent results, because they had the political conditions. We are still there, and we have been back for three months, because we do not have the political preconditions. Accuracy never sat down with the government at the same table. We broke this bad rule in November 2011, when the New Democracy took responsibility. So we told you that the sources are the markets - for healthy finances - the states of the European Union, the Eurogroup, after March 2010 - because before March 2010 there was no mechanism and you were ironing that. Of course, the states give you memos, because they give you money from their citizens, in the context provided by the Eurozone. The third way of raising money is internal lending, that is what you are doing today, as your Government representative described it. He did right, he told the truth. If it does not go any further, it is citizens' deposits with the banks. You pro-electioned that these were dangerous. Life has shown that it was a risk record and not a false risk reason that creates a risk. You created a wall of defense, so that everyone trying to tell what problems there are, to judge the citizen and to vote, was a riskologist, a generally bad man, who was talking about the evil of the country and of the citizens, and you invited the citizens to vote to be rich and that the country is rich. That's what you did. And the people voted, obviously, tired, tested, afflicted, with many sacrifices. He voted for something better, the organized, within demagogy and falsehood, your hopes. And now? Now it's getting hard. 3% growth for 2015 and 2016 in the forecast by the European Central Bank, markets, the International Monetary Fund - that is what it said about 2.5% - before you take over, is threatening to become 0.8% at best if there is no recession, as we believe, that is, we go back, in the past. Did we, ladies and gentlemen, have any security when we respected the forecasts of the European Central Bank? Of course we did. First of all, we had the validity of these great institutions and, secondly, of those who are Members of Parliament - the vote, not appointed here ministers, or of the first phase of the career of the Member States, those who have come here because our people have - we had a picture of the markets in the real economy, not the markets in the sense of buying money, that something is moving. And we were told by the genuine representatives: small and medium-sized, entrepreneurs and free traders. Now go to the same people to ask. We who were going with the truth in the election, with the same person going after-election. You guys who promised everyone, I'd see how you'd get out in the neighborhood soon. We told the truth. They were calling me election, ladies and gentlemen, 'what are you going to say?' I was telling them the truth. What are you going to do with all that you say after the election? And the first time, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, which you are voting on is today. They come, in the way you govern, many, unfortunately for all of us. What is the climate on the market right now? Disinvestment: No reasonable investor currently puts a euro in a country that doesn't know where it's going to be tomorrow. And reducing consumption to a degree dramatic. We would say that it is an exaggeration to tell you during the election period. It's always been like this. The other campaigner is held up. He's waiting to see what happens next. Three months have passed since the elections and consumption reduction remains dramatically low. It is clear to anyone who knows a little about politics and no financial - it is enough political experience to give you this conclusion - that when you do not have movement on the market, you do not have money on the public funds and on the insurance funds. And you need somewhere else to find them. And you find it from your invasion of the reserves. There was an attempt in committee, ladies and gentlemen, to compare this move with the PSI. I said in my speech - and I repeat - the example of the IKA, who invested in listening to the admonition of the then government to bonds with an ESM guarantee. We have longer reserves than before the PSI. Others who did not follow this admonition suffered the consequences. But that's what we'll see in the committee of inquiry. I don't have time here to say more. There are too many arguments, and there we will have all the time to say these in detail, after you have taken responsibility for the conflict and not for the debate and for the parliamentary, at least in the procedural documents, which you have never done toward us, a common course. First of all, the Deputy Minister was there. They came, ladies and gentlemen, to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to bring us an act of legislative substance for ratification under an unjustified urgent procedure. It was the conflict that took place. The media have shown this and not the debate on the substance that has taken place since then. But that conflict has resulted in us all ending up together in a process that would allow dialogue and allow the Prime Minister to go in full. That's what we did. When he was in opposition, today's majority had Mr. Lafazani there, telling us coups. He kept saying it, and in a way that's full of a spot, because he said it every day. We had an agreement in the process. Why not? That government, too, should do our job as a parliament. What was useful? It was useful to exchange views between us, opposition opinions and also consensus opinions, but most importantly to listen to the bodies. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Why was the audience critical? Because the stakeholders have come. And we did not say, like SYRIZA, that we agreed to five hundred, to do our job as Members of the National Representation - we did not want to do the good to the bodies - so that the House could have an opinion. The agencies came in and there was a conversation that was exhausting, until late last night, and we all got benefits. Because, especially from the Bank of Greece - which I have proposed - we have learned a lot of technical things, which we are not all of the special sector to understand or do not have tasks in the Ministry of Finance. We have learned too much and serious things. Others gave reassuring clarifications and other worrying ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u531	What are the worries?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u532	Now I'll tell them in the time I have left. And I am conveying this debate by attacking my opposition arguments, which are fair, tough, but not the level of the morning conflict here in Parliament, which set up a bridge with the recent sad past of some people, who are in the Chamber, where they characterized their fellow Members and compatriots with the most deceptive national conditions, insulting families, parties, faces, everything, for some buffaloes, finally, as can be seen. The debate was very useful. He gave aspects of the problem. First of all, all the institutions were concerned, they didn't want to. This is a situation. No one can deny her. They didn't want that move. And a Mayor, Mr. Apostolos Abdismis, did not take the floor, but told us - he told us that the Ministry of Development sent to the Bank of Greece all the money relating to the OTAs and the Bank of Greece, which makes the simple transfer, delays, ladies and gentlemen, so that it is an issue between the local government and the Bank of Greece for the disbursement of money that does not belong to the Bank of Greece. Keep this in your data, so you know what we're voting for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u533	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u534	That's what a local representative told us. And all the institutions, Mr. Majority's colleague, highlighted such problems. I am not saying that all the arguments were correct, but that was the concern of the operators. I admit that my concerns have been entertained there because I have heard them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u535	That's all I'm saying. There is one problem that is not due to the Bank of Greece because of public procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u536	Yeah, but these procedures are just...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u537	Leave the dialogues, because when you hear what time we're going to end tonight, we won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u538	Okay, it's not a bad dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u539	I didn't tell you. I addressed Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u540	Ladies and gentlemen, firstly positive from the dialogue: The issues raised in terms of fees for compensation are the Minister, in fact, but also the mayors who are in the Chamber, confirm that they are not concerned with this policy. We thought it was her business. There is an absolute clarification. It's a verbal clarification. Is this about the grammar interpretation of the law? Oh, no. Is it about the perfect interpretation of the law? Oh, no. Because we're going into action now, aren't we? Someone's gonna do these things. It is about the historical interpretation of the law on constitutionalists. Circular you said you wouldn't make. I heard you. You should do it, you should expressly clarify it. In any case, I take note of that in the positive aspects of yesterday's debate. But I have to tell you that we have carried - I was one of them - concerns of institutions that have deposits in forward accounts and have a clause in cases where the forward accounts will be broken. The example I mentioned - because I was transferred from the Stock Exchange from the relevant S.A. company. - it relates to two hundred million at a rate of 4,8. Three million six hundred thousand will be the losses. And because, as I told the committee, it's good when the wave is high and you're a majority political force, the thing is what you do when the wave falls and what happens to people who have supported the effort with media, prosecutors and so on. And infidelity is here. All right, he'll be acquitted because he doesn't have a dome, nobody will say. He'll sit on the stool, though, because the Constitution broke it. And they'll tell you, "The Constitution is so clear here, that you're wrong. You should have seen it." And you step aside, especially those who aren't MPs. It has been said here that there is a concern about the loss of money, so dangers. And the Minister came out after that and said: 'We will cover this with an amendment'. We said to him: 'Get on Friday'. We said to him: "Get it on Monday, which you have to discuss the draft law of NERIT. He didn't bring her today. Tomorrow you'll say more. Anything you bring here is true. Whatever you're telling us, we don't believe you. You have become completely unreliable. Bring it here, let's see. Don't tell us what you're gonna do. Bring it here. You should have brought it today. If it's too technically difficult to record the device, bring it on Monday. Until Monday, we don't believe you. The dialogue has, however, highlighted this problem. If we had closed it down, as you suggested, it would not have occurred. Thirdly, it has been said - to me Mr Kegeroglu, from Heraklion and from Serres, from the cooperative bank itself - that many bodies have their money in cooperative banks. If you take them, you create a problem in the local economy. The representative of the Bank of Greece told us: "And what are these cooperatives that stand on the basis of the funds of the institutions?" Is that what you think? Tell them you're thinking that way. This is how an employee of the Bank of Greece thinks. You, as a government, think so? You said you would clarify it. We haven't seen it yet. You say things. Basic clarifications concerning the legislature and the application of its law, you are not telling us. You're telling us words and I'm telling you we don't believe you. Fourth, here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u541	Mr. Loverdo, how much more time do you want? Because you've already spent two and a half minutes. I can't give you more than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u542	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u543	I can't give you more than a minute. I mean, you'll speak nineteen minutes while everyone has spoken in their time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u544	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u545	Do you mind, Mr. Colleague, speaking and protesting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u546	It'll be short of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u547	He's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u548	Don't waste any more time. Keep going. You'll have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u549	Mr Colleagues, you objected that all three Members should speak outside the list. I heard you. It's not good what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u550	In two minutes you'll have to finish, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u551	The representative of the universities came, the Rector of the Polytechnic University of Crete, one of the best that Greece has, and he told you that in this budgetary closeness, with the reduced grants - that is the truth - the liberalisation of research gives a source of revenue. Exclude research accounts from this. Do you have anything to say? Not in words, with specific works. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, listen to this. We understood from the Bank of Greece that as it is going to move capital towards it, it will hold as a safety zone a certain amount and the rest will invest it in a weekly investment. With what's going to be an amount of security, it's going to meet needs. We asked: What is going to happen for a large number of demands? The representative of the Bank of Greece, replacing Mr Stournara, who was abroad, said there is a limit. What is going to happen over the limit? And what is the Bank's discretion to say no or yes? The amount as a safety-belt shall, by definition and by object, be limited. Is there any other kind of room? We didn't see it. He didn't tell us. He doesn't. And if you were to draw this up with a number of mayors who are late in disbursement, put this together, to see exactly how this is going to be and what exactly will be the difficulties of a regulation that has no time, ladies and gentlemen. There's no time limit. SYRIZA's spokesman, Mr. Friend, tells us that "there is temporaryity", but temporaryity means knowing when this transitional stage is completed, the temporary one. We do not know here. And you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u552	Mr. Loverdo, please help me. I don't want to turn off the microphone. It's five minutes beyond your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u553	Will you turn me off my microphone, Mr. President? Will you do that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u554	No, but it's five minutes. You must respect colleagues too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u555	I'm asking you to tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u556	Further tolerance can't be shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u557	You'll show me another little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u558	Good. You have one more minute to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u559	So I say, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, that you need to think about these bodies and about the rest of the country, if the process of trying to reach an agreement is not right. What's gonna happen? All we say here is based on the fact that some time the funding will come. What if he doesn't come? What's gonna happen? What are the safeguards for those who make decisions to give you the money? Anyway, I don't want to be in danger and I never did. But, ladies and gentlemen, read today what was said at the Eurogroup. They're not, dear colleagues, that you're called opponents, they recognize you the other line, and you're colluding with them. It's what they call you with your surnames uncharacteristic, about your scientific adequacy, your labourability and your demilitarization. It's all 'in the air'. And finally, for the citizen who is listening and struggling, the period has now begun when compared with works with works with words, demagogues and lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u560	Before I call the first speaker from the list, Mr Papadopoulos, I would like to inform you of this. There are fifty colleagues, for seven minutes, and the seven Members of Parliament for twelve minutes means four hundred thirty-four minutes. It means seven and a half hours from now, if we keep exactly the time. And put in a dentext of the Minister, which goes without saying that he will have to answer, let's go to eight hours. Plus the voting procedure, if a roll-call request is tabled, we are talking about 2.00 o'clock after midnight. With favor of the first two, in order for the parties to have the time to consult - there are all the parties in the Chamber except Golden Dawn - I make a proposal. The speakers, instead of seven minutes, speak five. That means we're earning an hour and a half. Parliamentary representatives instead of twelve minutes talking ten minutes, so we win another twenty minutes, and the Minister will cut the time accordingly. So it's gonna be a two-hour winning time. If you can now tell me yes, by the way, we start it like this. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u561	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u562	We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u563	We agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u564	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u565	Okay, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House organizes and operates, forty students and students and three teachers from the 2nd Kilkis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papadopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u566	Mr President, we have agreed with your proposal. But I would like to ask the following question: will we have time to end or as long as it goes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no. That's how we're gonna win two hours. It is six hours from now, as long as the time is respected. That is to say, at 23.30 a.m. we can be done, and all colleagues have spoken. If the parliamentary representatives now consult and want to put an end to this, think about it. The suggestion that they're all talking and ending around 23:00 with 23:30 instead of 1.30 with 2:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u568	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u569	Let me apologize first to Mr Papadopoulos, because I had given him the floor. Here you go, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u570	As we all know that this will not happen, I would suggest that we agree now to conclude the debate at 23 noon and that if the list of speakers has been exhausted, it is good. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u571	Good. Because this is a little more difficult than the first one, the first two speakers should speak. Make the meetings between you - Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Friend and Mr. Koutsoukos and the spokesman from the Communist Party - and tell me what you have decided after the two speakers. If you agree with that, we decide. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor, and I would ask you not to interrupt my colleague again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u572	After the explosions, ladies and gentlemen, we started talking calmly and simply difficult things at this critical historic time for the country. We can therefore discuss very seriously, if, Mr Vorides, it is an exceptional case as the Constitution wants, for the adoption of a legislative act. And because you think these conditions are not there, you objected to anti-constitutionality. I think that Mr Loverdos also noted, as a constitutionalist, that there are no exceptional and unforeseen conditions, while Mr Theocharis of the River told us that there is a famine, earthquake and oppression situation and that SYRIZA's policy in the two and a half months that governs it. Well, let's see. Greece will need to make use of all remaining cash balances, as Reuters transferred two days ago to pay wages and pensions in May. "FINANCIAL TIMES" and "BILD", as well as many other forms, found that Greece had to be prepared for bankruptcy and at the same time wondered why the Greeks did not run around the banks to get their deposits. Since August, as we know, the financial flow to serve the country's loan needs has been interrupted. There is economic suffocation of the national economy, strangulation, torture of the drop, drying of the market. And it is not just that government. Let me remind you a little, ladies and gentlemen of the previous government, that since August this blackmail situation has been in place, you too have accepted. Extortion had also been accepted by previous governments. The question is what we are doing in the face of extortion, in the face of the dilemmas, in the face of the problems that are being posed. This government has decided not to back off certain issues relating to red lines, not for us, but for the country and for the people. And we put that very clearly. Did this lead to the agreement of 20 February which - to make a statement - was observed by the lenders? What do you say, gentlemen of counterpopulation? Did they keep her? Their demands - even on the technical steps - to implement the fifth assessment of the commitments made by the previous government continued to exist, despite the fact that it provided for the possibility for Greece to implement its own reform plan with a balanced budget of expenditure and revenue, despite the fact that even the possibility of a national plan of eighteen reforms, extended to all possibilities for taxation of wealth, on line connections of cash machines, exclusion of overprivileges, smuggling etc. It is true that even Christine Lagard had found that the rich must at last pay in this country. The middle class has paid enough, they've paid the low, the poor layers. In parallel to the suffocation we have seen in Brussels, Hilton, Paris and Brussels Group. We have shocks and discrepancies. It must be said that the shocks, as it is reported, also concern the primary surplus of 1.5%, the increase in value added tax with a luxury tax on high-value markets, the philosophy that will govern the exploitation of public property by means of partnerships rather than privatizations. The divergences concern the red lines announced by the Prime Minister. And not to remind exactly what are the red lines, I think it is better to ask this question again to the opposition: Do you think that these issues, which go too clearly, have your own place too clearly? The national negotiating framework proposed in many respects - the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Potami - on what basis? On the basis of the government's insistence or the basis on which creditors blackmail? And this ruthless question, as was raised vaguely this morning by Mr Voutsi, I think he needs to be answered in the same clear way. Because in this situation we are in, in order to be able to reach agreement, as the national Parliament that is negotiating, we must have very good explanations of exactly what we want, what the national line is, so that we can really talk about the needs of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u573	Mr. Papadopoulos, please make it easy on me by finishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u574	To conclude, even in the morning, you know that the representative of the Bank of Greece, Mr Michopoulos, had explained very well why the legislative act would not make it possible to misuse the cash balances if it were not the institutions who would deposit their money. So what I conclude with is this: can we set the framework with which the country can continue, at this difficult stage, to negotiate? We've made our choices. Is this whole House doing it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u575	I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who, as they have informed me, agreed to end the sitting at 23 noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u576	The debate, not the sitting, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u577	The debate, yes, you're right, Mr. Phile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u578	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u579	Just a minute, Mrs. Macrie, you're interrupting me at the time I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u580	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u581	This means that the honourable Members are warmly asked, the five-minute agreement that we agreed to respect. And so are the Members of Parliament. Because now I have one unofficial piece of information that two parties may speak. You realize that in the 23.00 hours that we said, without taking into account that, it escapes. It is a good request, therefore, to have it in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u582	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u583	On what subject do you want to talk, Ms. Makary?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u584	On the point of order, because I hear that you have decided, and there is no unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u585	We did not say there was a unanimous decision. But there is a vast majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u586	I don't see a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u587	It is a vast majority of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u588	I disagree!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u589	Good, your disagreement is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u590	I respect Mr Stakoura as a Member of Parliament, who has gone up to the Step. Please give me the floor after Mr. Stavoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u591	No, Mrs. Macrie, you won't have the floor. That is the end of the matter. You weren't in the Chamber at the time the procedure was done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u592	I have a right! You cannot give the floor to Members for two and a half hours and do not speak to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u593	When you get the floor, I was already on the list, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u594	I want the floor after Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u595	I won't. The debate is closed on the subject you want to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u596	The Rules of Procedure set seven minutes for Members! For two and a half hours we have seen a performance and a show and now you want to remove the reason...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u597	You don't have the floor! Do not write anything in the Minutes than my colleague says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u598	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u599	Respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure always and I say first of all that you will speak five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u600	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u601	I repeat: do not write anything about what my colleague says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u602	We're wasting time like this, Mr. President. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u603	Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u604	Thank you very much, Mr President. SYRIZA's dear colleague spoke of a negotiating framework in which we should all agree. First of all, we must agree that the current position of the Minister of the Interior on the position and attitude of the parties that supported the previous government remains, despite the clarification, despite the correction, extremely unfavourable. And it remains extremely unfavourable, too, in substance. Because when my colleague says that the government has a framework and has specific red lines, he will allow me to submit to the Minutes, for a reminder only, the government's commitments after 20 February. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] What does the government commit to? Let's see if she's consistent with her commitments. It is committed to reforming VAT policy by changing rates, restricting exemptions, abolishing tax reductions. So what are its policies here? And all this within four months. You commit to continue - the verb is "continue" - the policies of the previous government to modernise the pension system - copying it - the rationalisation of pension policies, administrative integration of the funds, the abolition of early retirement, the greater connection of pensions with insurance contributions. What have you done? You are committed to abolishing parafiscal taxes, you undertake to proceed to a new public wage and there is a number of other commitments that you have made, so that at the end of the June review you will take the dose that you now say you have not taken. That is what you signed on 20 February. And then you're wondering why as a country we're at the point where we are now. Second truth, and I will agree with the Deputy Minister of Finance: What has the current government received in cash? First, following the parliamentary elections on 25 January and despite the significant lack of income due to the political uncertainty of January, the Government received EUR 1.9 billion of cash at the end of January. Cash assets were higher at the end of December, 2.6 billion, but precisely because of the lack of revenues were set at 1.9 billion. Secondly, then, the assessments were - and the Minister rightly said - that if the current government did not take any initiative, it would start to deal with cash problems after 24 February, small in February, much larger in March. That is why the previous government has sought to close the agreement within two months, in a beneficial way for the country, so that we can get the last dose of the current programme. On the contrary, the current government assured the Greek society, despite the fact that it knew the truth and the Minister confirmed it, that the country does not need the last instalment of the loan contract. What about the follow-up? On 20 February, as I have already said, she signed that she will be disbursed in full at the end of the assessment, and she was aware of the needs, that is, she was aware of the country's pressing cash requirements. The Deputy Minister of Finance himself said on 16 February that we have cash assets for as long as needed. Third truth. In order to meet these pressing cash requirements, the government has declared a large internal payment stop - estimated at least EUR 2 billion - with a significant increase in public debts to the private sector, and now it has also gone on with internal forced lending. Fourth truth. The state fund will have a problem as long as the country sinks, without a realistic plan, into a blurred atmosphere. In what atmosphere, however, are we discussing this act of legislation, this bill combined with the act? In an environment in which the security, multilingualism, the creative ambiguity that we see every day and the recurring government proves to be harmful to the country and its citizens. From week to week, uncertainty deepens and expands, the situation deteriorates and the dead are multiplying. The legislative act goes on by the government today and so is the criticism of the necessity of tabling these acts, as ended a month ago, and the criticism of the drafting of drafts in the form of urgency and, as was the end of two months ago, of the criticism of incorporation of irrelevant provisions and amendments into debate and of bills. The parties that support the government today have made all this very clear and are adopting them today. This is clear evidence of inconsistencies. At least I'd expect an autocritical one from them. The second truth is that the binding commitment of the cash resources of the general government, the local government institutions, unlike what has been happening to date, proves the government's desperation to find resources to meet the country's immediate and pressing needs. All of this is proof of curiosity and of lack of insight, samples of panic and not foresight, that is to say, the opposite of what Mr Philis said. Because if they were foreshadowed, a month ago the government had brought an amendment to this matter, it would have incorporated it. This month, however, obviously, the situation has become even worse. Third truth. The PPP issue is only justified in exceptional circumstances of exceptional urgency and unforeseen urgency and is valid as from its adoption. There is no provision for retroactive effect. This legislative act has been in force since 17 March, obviously, as many colleagues have said, to cover the willing administrations of institutions that have transferred cash to the Bank of Greece. However, if the need had arisen on 17 March, then the FPI we are discussing was neither urgent nor unforeseen. On the contrary, the economic necessity of which is invoked is only unknown and sudden, and the retrospectiveness confirms it. Like the Deputy Minister of Finance, who said today that unforeseen needs have arisen in the last week. After occurring in the last week, why did retrospectiveness since 17 March? Last comment. The compulsory commitment of the cash inflows deprives additional resources from the banking system and the economy, resources that are now used, not to finance the private sector, but to finance the State, of resources covered by the increase in the liquidity threshold to the Greek banks by the European Central Bank in order to replace the outflow of deposits that the bank causes and at increased costs for the banks to be transferred to the Greek borrowers. In conclusion, the government is forced to proceed with today's legislative and initiative because of the deadlocks it has created. It is therefore necessary to put aside both creative ambiguity and the communication management of problems and to move quickly before the situation becomes irreversible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u605	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been informed by the Bureau's colleagues that Mrs Sveroni-Hondonassiou is in the Public Administration Committee. I would like to ask you not to delete it, but to prioritise Mr Lykoudis, who is present. If Mr Lykoudis is here, Mr President, he is well aware of this. Or it'll be erased. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u606	The House unanimously agreed. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative act we are discussing today infringes the limits of the government's parliamentary credibility. Five bills with invasive provisions, two acts of legislation are not a small thing. This is a legislative statement of the first hundred days, which is all but envious in terms of a government that recently, as opposition, was stigmatizing such practices, and indeed with an acute, unacceptable, political language in every respect. At least, today on this issue, let the government operate a little more modestly. Let him stop justifying the unjustified. Everything has a limit. Does he not realize that communal bubbles are often on the brink of the explosion? Ladies and gentlemen, the bleeding of the cash available to the bodies of the General Government, which is being attempted by the legislative act, in addition to the ambiguity, the questions and the problems it raises, is, politically, an unambiguous confession of a total failure in the management of the supposedly harsh negotiation. It shows despair and panic, as it dramatically aggravates both the country's negotiating position and the image of the Greek economy. It is sad to observe the government going without a plan, falling victim to the illusions it itself created, to tighten the loop around her neck, which she allegedly made for others, to fall into the pit she dug up, self-sufficient in her election rhetoric. Unfortunately, she continues after this, I was now at the helm of governance, with communication fireworks, which are on the way and, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that soon they can function as a boomerang against her, because she does not have the courage, courage, to force the political cost, to make difficult, but vital for the country, so that we can finally get out of the black tunnel of crisis as soon as possible. And all of this, because she thinks that she misled not only the Greek people, but also herself, that the negotiation would be someone or a painless academic walk with rose petals or a dance with us organizing players and lenders dancing. Let us not forget about this. You remember both the junkies and the ladles and the dances. Ladies and gentlemen, the government shoots its feet, but most importantly it shoots the country itself at the same time, because it is more likely that liquidity reserves do not exist, while its operations and practices rekindle the insecurity and concern of the citizens, which is reflected in bank statements. The economy has fallen into a coma, you know, unemployment is smiling, black labour is wrathing, tourism is shaking. I do not charge all this to the government, but this is the established reality on purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, time is running out. The government won't avoid the bitter glass. That's politics. What can we do? And there is no sign of maliciousness in this finding. No one can rejoice about the possible failure of the country, which will have tragic consequences, because the account will no longer go to the known 'bottoms', but will go to all of us. That is why the rulers - I repeat once again - must, at the very latest, assume their responsibilities. They cannot wash their hands as Pontius Pilate and "threate" with referendums and elections. Is there a referendum on what question and with what position of the government? Such threats are found in the void. Don't you understand? Does anyone have the illusion that any question will not be in essence: euros or drachmas? But there is fresh, as the government itself says, a people's mandate: a solution, an agreement within the euro. Let's get her to see her. As for the election, do you present them as a threat? Tell the citizens why you want them. To approve or reject a new agreement, perhaps a new memorandum? We must all know that no new people's mandate to any colouring government is going to change the data of the negotiation. On the other hand, it will worsen them, while all of us - all of us - mean it - are lovin' we will be struggling in the windows "by saying good-bye to Alexandria". The country undergoing collapse will collapse completely and proudly, on the way to the polls. It's gonna be her charismatic shot. Does the government dare take such a responsibility? If she gets her, let's take her. Does he know the consequences? Ladies and gentlemen, the reasonable period of grace has now passed. It is not possible for the government to continue to go on with the same myths, to "seeing and doing", to build non-existent enemies, to strengthen anti-Europeanism, butter on the bread of the Eurosceptics and enemies of the European Union, to serve many times in nationalistic misery, to isolate the country, to have as the sole negotiating weapon the desperation of the weak, the threat of suicide. Because if the grenade, ladies and gentlemen, breaks into the hands of the government, it can only slightly hurt the surroundings of Europe, but we will be completely destroyed for decades, if not for decades. So let the government consider its responsibilities. It's decision time. Time is desperately shortened and runs against us. I think the last delusions are falling apart, but the country has to stay up. It is time for truth and tough decisions, but obviously, if the government wants or can. I wish and he could dare to disprove those who think he doesn't want and he can't. I sincerely hope and will be welcomed because, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are approaching the point of no return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u608	Mrs Sverononi, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure you have the floor for five minutes, because I was informed that you were in committee. You can also from your position, you can also from the Step. Wherever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u609	Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u610	The colleagues who accepted this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u611	Thank my colleagues, Mr President. Thank you very much. I was amazed to see that a progressive government of the progressive and left-wing forces, working with the Independent Greeks, decided entirely coup d'état - so at least that was what it was called when the people of the coup d'état were Opposition and opposition - to start ruling this place by legislative acts. As I said in committee, legislative acts are provided for in our Constitution. However, I told you that when some people, who are today in Civic Opposition, were brought by the current Prime Minister, they were described as "small coups" and then said they were junk acts. Mr Papadimoulis said that it was a "broadcast" when he was to governments with legislative acts. And now, as if nothing is happening, we're being told, "You know? We make use of Article 44 of the Constitution." The truth is, is that the Constitution is only provided for when? In exceptional cases of extremely urgent and unforeseen need. Only then. However, we have not been told by the government's gentlemen what the urgent and unforeseen need is. When everything goes well, when everything goes well, where is it necessary, as provided for in Article 44, for the act to be adopted? Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I shall refer to you with a strong expression. In fact, I am aware of this phrase I am going to use. You know what you remind me of? You remind me of a mortgage loan. You are the government, you are the prisoners and you decide on a night by legislative act, which includes what? A forced loan. You do not say 'I can use'. Evil is now needed. Are local government agencies forced and forced - not only local government I and II - but also universities and hospitals to give you what? Give you the reserves. To take it patriotically and to say: 'no, what you blame us is extreme, we have to put back'. Shall we put the reserves on? Let's put them on. When will you return them? Why is there no answer to that? Why do you let the surrounding atmosphere sound "when", "we'll see"? And since, ladies and gentlemen of the government and Minister, you have not settled and do not know exactly what is going to happen tomorrow, tomorrow, in fifteen days, in a month, why in another room on the second floor, we were voting to re-entry the unjustly fired people? In other words, not much, you tell us that the funds are empty and that we do not have to pay the pensions and salaries of officials, which are already in the Greek State. Still, what's that called? Is it a policy? Is it called a communication policy? In any case, we would like to say that we want to believe you. We want to believe you, gentlemen of the government. Why? Because you are the government of the Greek state. Because the Greek state has a lot of time for us. Before you were some others who lied to the Greek people and their lies were punished. It's your turn. "Governments" may be "flying", but, apart from the love that remains, the state remains. The state has a continuity. I wish you would do something different! But I see you continuing with the same flammable, that is to say, making politics with some flaming things and it is something that does not ultimately suit you, the left, the progressive ones, who, as your flag, have the people's vote and something different, which you are evangelizing with the announcement of this different one, you have taken the vote of the Greek people. Don't believe that the percentage you took is the left-wing ones. They're indignant too. They're angry. They gave some other leftists, some others from another turbulence, the opportunity. Some of the people who voted for you passed through the Romanians. Knowing that they are going through the Romanians, they gave you the opportunity and the opportunity to show whether what you really think you can do. But you did not tell us, gentlemen of the government, that you are telling the truth. Twice it was heard by two constitutionalists in this House that it is the national one. Mr Venizelos, a constitutionalist who said so, admitted "we lied because we did not operate nationally but anti-nationally". The second is Mr Katrugalos, who I believe has been telling the truth so far. I want to believe that he is telling the truth as a constitutionalist, as a professor, as a minister - less as Minister - I see him more as a teacher and as a teacher. But I'm afraid, Minister, that if you don't lie, too, because this phrase is heavy - you might not tell us the whole truth. You don't tell us all the truth, and that's why you didn't convince us. That is why we cannot be with a vote against you. Thank you very much and thank you for the tolerance of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u612	Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u613	And then I would like to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u614	Yeah. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Mitsotakis, has then asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u615	Thank you, Mr President. I was present at noon in this episode, the explosion that took place in this House - a sensitivity that I respect - by several Members of the opposition. My mind ran a little back. I had to remember a few facts. I remembered, for example, the stock market. They're few, but there's still some who were and then, and they're even here today. I remembered the Olympic games that were scheduled for EUR 4-5 billion and I don't know where they arrived. I remembered the outrageous programs, which cost too much at home, how the media were paid. I remembered "SIEMENS", how Christophobe was leaving, how Karavelas was leaving. That is what I remember, when this terrible fight took place, which, for me - if you would like me to think - could indeed have avoided an extreme expression and ended the story. I have also come to my mind recent events, such as the billions that left so comfortable through the Bank of Greece at the time, which, with a very diligent assessment, economists estimate about EUR 300 billion. I'm not saying what they fled illegally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u616	How much did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u617	Three hundred billion, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u618	What are we listening to, my God?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u619	A lot of people put them up in a bigger number, and some of them are illegal. That's what I said. I also want to remind you that no offshore has ever been checked. In a couple checked, we found scandals. So this came to my mind, I say, when I saw the events that were evolving in front of me and the reaction was really justified. Maybe I'd have it, too. We have an act of legislation. What happened? Is the government in good pleasure saying 'now also to do an act of legislation'? I don't care what today's opposition has done to me in the past. Twenty-seven had brought in. I care about her. Yes, I did not feel good about this act of legislation either. I also believe that in procedural terms the government should have called on the mayors, the institutions, and said 'children, I have this problem'. I think that's wrong. But what is crime? Because the last Greek citizen today knows that the country is in a bad position. And here comes a subject, because we have different angles of vision. I respect the opposite view. Some believe that all these terrible sufferings that the country is now enduring are the story of three months. I'm starting to believe it, too. I say 'I think that's what it will be like'. Nothing happened before. Everything was going well and what happened was in the last three months. I would therefore inform you that the last citizen knows that the country is under economic occupation. I don't think there's a Greek citizen who doesn't believe this thing. Indeed, the market is dry. But there's a rival here. We've learned this quarter what we're going to have to deal with. You may not share that view. Well, I did. Hard negotiation, body with negotiating body. We've heard what extortion will mean by solidarity friends. We've learned a lot of things. And I would have been one of those who would have pleaded to this hypersensitivity if I saw that this particular government had retreated to so much. I'm one of the people I believe... [[At this point a warning bell will be ringing over the speaking time of the honourable Member]] Would you give me a minute or should I stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u620	I'll give you one. I give everyone anyhow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u621	I am one of those who really, if I saw that wages and pensions at Bulgaria's level, if I saw VAT going up to God, if I could see that we were the other half of civil servants, I would have no reason to exist in this Chamber. If I saw the working ages for which some are silent, I would have no reason to exist and - I believe - all the Members of the government are involved. Instead, we see a body with a negotiating body. I am not by my nature a pessimist, but I believe that this terrible thing that we hear from morning to night - 'Grexit', 'double currency', 'double money', 'ATM closing' - we have heard it many times, but we do not see it. There are channels that, from morning to night, play with an incredible terrorism! We saw a Prime Minister yesterday who really negotiated and came out after the meeting with Mrs Merkel optimist. The messages from both Draghi and Moscovisi and Obama's environment and Yunker are positive. I am sorry, because some in this Chamber will be dissatisfied, because there will be an agreement. The deal will be beneficial to us. I would then like to see some who have been successful, as they said that their immigrants and economic refugees have been brought by Mrs Christodoulopoulos and Tsipras and many other excesses, and they are saying nothing today. Friends and friends, we can coexist in this Chamber and have disagreements. We don't have to agree. I believe that this is the majesty of democracy. It is up to us, however, to see the reality of it too, too, to accept criticism. We were wrong, we were wrong and we were gonna do it. We're infinite. But we are not diffused and we are not corrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u622	Thank you, too. Mr. Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u623	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that a Member of Parliament, at least, of the SYRIZA and ANLE, has been able to express his concern about the use of the legislative instrument, taking into account what the current government and SYRIZA have said when they were in opposition. I have them here, and I will submit them for historical reasons in the Minutes of the House. "They proceed with legislative acts, as if the country were in a state of war and in a state of siege." This is Alexis Tsipras' statement. Of course, it could not be lacking in this public debate by Mrs Constantopoulos: 'The violation, abolition, demolition of democracy are not only carried out by tanks, but also by anti-constitutional acts of legislation'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u624	When it is constantly, Mr Mitsotakis, not when it is one or two.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u625	You've done two already in two months. I would, however, accept that since the Constitution enables urgent and unforeseen situations to resort to a government in practice to legislation, it may be possible to use this tool. This is why the Constitution itself is provided for. The question, which is raised - and has also been raised by the speakers of the New Democracy and by our rapporteur, and also by Mr Vorides - is how it is possible to establish unforeseen and exceptional needs in an act of a retroactive nature. My own personal view, ladies and gentlemen, is that perhaps the President of the Republic himself should not have signed this act of legislation. The Constitution says 'can sign'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u626	He has no right. He's just finding out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u627	Everyone gives their own interpretation. Talk later, Mr. Philie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u628	What you're talking about is unprecedented!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u629	Talk to you later, Mr. Philly. It is an act of legislation which clearly does not satisfy the fundamental requirement of the Constitution itself. That is my personal view and I am tabling it. We're having a dialogue, after all. You may have an opposite view. How can an act of legislation be of a retrospective nature? What is the unpredictable character, which could not have been established on 17 March, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u630	Two more you have voted, with your signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u631	Wait. So what is this unpredictable nature, Minister, which could not have been established on 17 March and for which the government could not legislate, Mr Philly, within this period of time? That is what you have not given an answer. Legislative act has produced legal effects since its publication. The study you brought to Parliament, in breach of the Rules of Procedure, to be discussed and voted on today, can only be explained by political priorities and not for legal reasons. I shall then refer to the issue of today's Eurogroup and whether it has finally facilitated the negotiation of the country. The reality is, however, that this act is problematic from the very point of view, that the provisions of the Constitution itself are not fulfilled. Of course, in our view, they are manifestly unconstitutional. I will not go into details because I think the arguments have been developed very thoroughly by the name of Officer Voridis. In this debate I would like to add two dimensions, which I do not think have been mentioned by previous speakers, so that I do not repeat what has already been said. Firstly, the impact on the real economy: every such move, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, sucks liquidity from the banks, which should be directed to the real economy. You are also aware of the tragic situation in which the real economy has come from the fact that the banks are currently forced to finance the Greek State in substance and not to fulfil their main role, which is the financing of the productive economy. The second dimension of the problem with this regulation, beyond its unconstitutional character, is that it obeys a strange kind of 'economic centralism'. Under normal circumstances, Minister, if we would like to talk in this Chamber about real, bold structural reforms, we would have to move back from what you are doing. We should give the local authorities the opportunity to receive the property tax itself, as it has been discussed and, of course, also to be responsible for the level of the fees it imposes, but also for the possibility of channelling this money to local communities, in the way it considers appropriate. So there would be a real sense of how local government will be accountable. You are forced, under the pressure of events, to do exactly the opposite. So you asked the mayors and the district managers to put their backs on the government's national effort. The question that has been asked by the mayors and the district managers and we are also asking you is, 'Let's put back on, Minister, but with what final plan'? Let us assume that the government faces the extreme liquidity crisis, which you have presented with this legislative initiative, and finds 1-1.5 billion, which you lack for you to be able to pay wages and pensions at the end of April. Then what happens? What is your plan and programme to meet the financial needs of the Hellenic Republic from now on? What are you going to do in May, in June, in July, where you will have to give the European Central Bank about 6 billion in payment for the repayment of commitments, which obviously cannot be transferred. Your problem, Minister, is that, unfortunately, you have no plans, that you are going day after day and that by scratching the bottom of the barrel in this way you are not making time, but you are actually wasting time in negotiation. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is how the country's negotiating position is being strengthened, when every day we are even more pressed in cash and we are coming as a country - which is why I am using the first plural - in a Eurogroup to achieve the negotiation? Do you think this blackmail is "finding the money and therefore you should give us some kind of money, even if we have not fully fulfilled our obligations"? I'm afraid this blackmail is not working. You too - and I understand why you might want to do so at political level - expectations of today's Eurogroup. But it doesn't seem like things went as well as you expected. You are still investing in this perspective of political solution, as if Mr Tsipras could sit down with Mrs Merkel, Mr Holland, Mr Junker in a room and politically agree that the leaders of the European Union should give Greece money, with a political decision. But it has been said to you all tons and you have agreed it with the texts you have signed, that the procedure is well-defined and stable and cannot be called into question. As much as you want to change names, rename troika to institutions, Brussels Group and the Memorandum in a programme, if there is no technical assessment and certification of the progress of reforms, money as a country we are not going to get. Unfortunately, today the information sent to the foreign press - I stress that it is information, I do not know if it is true - is talking about very hard designations, Minister, attributed to the Minister of Finance to the Eurogroup: amateur, gambler. These are not things that honor Greece. I'm telling you, I don't know if it's true, but they're on the move. And they are circulated and said, because someone has given reason to say these things. You spoke, Mr. Colleague, about negotiating a body with a body. I do not know what it means to "renegotiate a body with a body". It reminds me of some ads that I saw when I was a kid, racing in a muddy cage. But this is not where we negotiate on communication criteria. This negotiation which you are bringing it up to about a natural and biological race ends up with the exact opposite results for the country, of which we expect it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to close by making no misuse of time, Mr President, with a reference to what Mr Voutsis said to us today in this very lively controversy. Of course, I would suggest that Mr. Voutsi be careful, because, you know, sometimes the microphones are open when you explain to Mr. Lafazanis exactly how you are hitting the Civic Opposition. The impression given to me by Mr Voutsis is that the government is somehow looking for me to do everything in its power to justify the inability to complete the negotiation, in other words, to translate into others, other than itself, the failure to implement the agreement which she has signed. If the country, ladies and gentlemen, goes to the rocks, we can make it clear that responsibility will only be borne by you, and only you. You signed the text tabled by Mr Stakoras a moment ago in the Minutes and I would recommend that you see it again. And because Mr Voutsis asks us to tell him exactly what we would do in his place, I recommend that he read this text, which is VAT, about changes in insurance. All the red lines put forward by the Prime Minister are cancelled by the text itself, signed by the Greek Government. So go ahead and implement. You can't. Your problem...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u632	These are headlines.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u633	Have you read it well? It's in English. Do you want me to give it to you translated?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u634	Don't have a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u635	Yes, teach us. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u636	Don't have a dialogue, please. It's at the expense of colleagues who haven't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u637	Look, I encourage you to read it in any language that is easier and more comfortable. The same is true, Mr Colleague, both in English and in English and in German. And you are committed to making a contribution to the insurance sector, and you are committed to making changes to the public administration, not to the direction proposed by Mr Katrugalos, but to the logic of evaluation. Now, if you forget these things in the context of your internal conflict, this is your case. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u638	Me too, Mr. Mitsotakis. As far as I have been informed by the services of this House, the President of the Parliamentary Group has asked for the floor. By taking advantage of his noble character, I would ask him to speak to two colleagues and follow, so that we can proceed with the list of Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u639	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u640	Mr. Kegeroglu, you can speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u641	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u642	First thank Mr Theodorakis, because under the Rules of Procedure I could not give you the floor if he did not consent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u643	The courtesy of it is well known, but I really think that at noon today, in this Chamber, there was no awareness needed in order to have a fruitful debate on a very important issue at an important time for the country. From what Mr Voutsis said, completing his speech, he seems to have finally been deliberate, just to change the agenda. Mr Metropoulos, the President-in-Office, has repeatedly asked whether anyone from the government wants to speak. He said that neither Mr Mardas nor any of the Ministers present would wish to speak. Then came the news of what happened at the Eurogroup. They have also been written in Greek - for us who do not know well how to read German or other languages - all that Mr Varoufakis has heard. All Mr Varoufakis heard was not only Mr Varoufakis, but unfortunately they were all about the entire government and even more about the whole country. The 'wood' that Mr Varoufakis ate, unfortunately, concerns the country and all of us. And unfortunately, he's worked on it. Why has he worked on it? On 20 February we all welcomed a framework tabled at the Government's initiative. It was not imposed by any of the partners, at least in the statement by Mr Varoufakis and the government. If there is any objection, I give the floor now to the Minister present, to tell us if things are different. In a statement made by Mr Varoufakis - the first post office and the second address of the negotiation - the framework and the subject matter were given. On this subject, all these issues have been raised, all that Mr Stavros, Mr Mitsotakis, said, are all that you know a little - very much, but unfortunately they hurt you and I will say why. This agreement, with the government's responsibility, had to be specified. He doesn't specialize. The government, wrongly, considers that the time spent is a profitable time, while it is exactly the opposite: it is a waste of time. Every day that passes is at least a three months lost time. It's a quarter for the real economy, real life. This is the big problem you cause in life, in every citizen, in his family, in business, in the real economy. This problem, together with the fundamental measures you are taking, by proclaiming that you are opposed to the recession, that is, the collection of liquidity from everywhere - you wipe everything out - brings us a much more difficult position. Of course, it brings the government in a more difficult position. As far as we arrive in June, the negotiation becomes even more difficult. The wrong option, by taking over the country's governance in terms of negotiation, where you have very quickly dismantled the issues that had to do with the unilateral deletion of the majority of the debt, as you said, the International Conference on debt write-off, that you entered the negotiation logic, but without the axis 'economic recovery - real economy', has led to a dead end. The country is not in danger of bankruptcy. You've led her to risk not being able to pay wages and pensions if that's true. You tell us if it's true he can't pay. Did you drive her and why? Is he lying that Mr. Varoufakis was proclaiming from morning to night, even the day before yesterday, that we don't want a dose? We all heard him sick. He says, he doesn't want funding for the country. What does he mean? The matter was explained yesterday. After Mr Tsipras' meeting with Mrs Merkel - this is something notable, second time they meet - it leaked that they would receive a receptor. So Mr. Varoufakis was against doses, because he's in favor of subscribing. That was explained yesterday. That's a big strategy! The theory of games cannot be applied to the country. Gambling can be the right of everyone as a person, but it is not entitled, as a public person and as a responsible Minister of Finance, to apply it for the country. Listen to two things and I'll finish. Every government is judged by what it has said in an election and by what it is doing post-election and by what it is doing in relation to the previous one. You're both minus. What you said in the election was a huge task for the Greek people. None of these are typical of your subsequent actions, your initiatives, your moves, your decisions, and the most typical theme of the MSP. And the second is that you are more or less moving in relation to the previous government, even for management. That's right, Mr. Marda. Unfortunately, you are taking part in such a government. Mr President, most are young. There are some old people, of course. I would remind you that if this was discussed in the previous government, Mr Lafazanis in the second place would call a 'coup d'état!', Mrs Constantopoulos in the third place would scream - she is missing today, and I am closing it - and Mrs Rahhill here would be shouting the same. But that is not the big one, that is, the formal one, the constitutional one. The major is changing from one day to the next, as if nothing happened and washing what you were talking about. You're washing it. But the Greek people must not bathe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u644	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u645	I'm closing, Mr. President. That is why, at least at the last hour, you should bring to the Greek Parliament the full text and agenda of the negotiation, to see what matters the whole Parliament or most of the forces can really support and what issues can be better dealt with. This has not been done and has not been done with the government's responsibility. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u646	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor and to think about Mr. Theodorakis' noble concession in terms of time. Of course, you'll have the tolerance I've shown everyone, one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u647	Thank you very much, Mr President, and Mr Theodorakis. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we been living in the last few days because today's legislative act is coming? Let's make a little historical regression, not much back in time. And it's good luck that Mr. Theodorakis is here. Mr. Theodorakis, you have a responsibility. Mr. Varoufakis is your discovery. December - five months ago! - in protagon.gr I read the article by Mr. Varoufakis who gave the following advice to Mr. Tsipras in view of the upcoming elections: "If Mr. Tsipras wants to become a great Prime Minister, he must, if Draghi calls, close his phone. And when he sends the signal," Yanis said then - with a "n" - Varoufakis, "that we don't want the money, then they'll be chasing us in the hallways to give us the money by force." This was a written prediction of Yiannis Varoufakis five months ago in his article at protagon.gr. So you have a responsibility, Mr. Theodorakis, because we've loaded him up and led the country to chaos. Second - be careful now - the same man who said that Tsipras had to turn off his phone to Draghi, has been behind Draghi for a few weeks and begging him to take a socket even - even 1 billion out of 7, even 1.2 or 1.3 billion. And to do that, to get this $1 billion instead of the 7 that she wanted, she's doing all of this, supposedly, the so-called negotiation. But where are we, ladies and gentlemen, why is things so serious? And I would like to put a dimension that has so far not been understood in this House and, Minister, I would like your opinion on this. We have all said to the committee and here today about the retroactive effect of the legislative act - I would like to say that Mr Venizelos's opinion on it is legal, and why he has been in a form, admittedly, recently - that the legislative act - we have all accepted - has retroactive effect since 17 March, says, to cover Mrs Durou. I want your attention, ladies and gentlemen, here. What's to cover Mrs. Duru exactly? Mrs Dourou had in her hands a law which had just been passed and which gave the general government's right, on a voluntary basis, to transfer their resources to the Bank of Greece and make them repos. So Mrs. Duru used absolutely a law that was in place at the time to make this transfer. What, once and for all, could Mrs Duru have a legal problem, which when the voluntary law was in place, she transferred this money? In a single case: if the money is not paid. If the money is lost, then the one who did it on a voluntary basis has shared responsibility. So, the one who put retroactiveness in the act of legislative content - you, Minister? Please tell us very much - in the back of his mind, he has: 'What if we get bored with a bald man, with our friend Rena?' Let's do a law retrospective thing to make sure it doesn't end up in jail. It is the only way that this act of legislation will have retroactive effect. What does that mean, too, just to understand? That, in fact, you themselves realise that the money you receive from the agencies may never be paid back, with what this implies. I want your attention, ladies and gentlemen, on another matter, so that I do not abuse the time. What have we been living for the last few days? We live once again in the government's optimism that there will be an agreement. Until last night the Prime Minister came out and was more optimistic than ever that there will be an agreement. What happened today at the Eurogroup? I think you've all watched news reports, read the foreign press, and you know about what happened. I think Mr. Varoufakis could have eaten a "wood" after all, as Mr. Christopoulos said about the battle of a body with a body. I think that 'Guardian' wrote: 'Give a sponge and a towel', to wipe it out of the spit and the 'wood' he eats, means 'Guardian'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u648	You mean political wood, or the word is in quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u649	Yeah, in quotes, of course. It is written 'GUARDIAN', Mr President, it is not mine. He says: "Give a sponge and a towel to wipe off the Greek Minister of Finance." What Greek Minister for Finance? The one your Prime Minister was optimistic about yesterday. So I, too, try to interpret, by closing, where the optimism of Mr Varoufakis comes from. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I read the international news reports, which say: 'Scrupulating the talks'. Some say: 'Short progress, but not important'. These are the most optimistic. Most people say that on essential issues there is no approach, that distance is too long. Gerun Düssenblum at the press conference said there would be no extraordinary Eurogroup, which was the main demand of the government and of Mr Tsipras - that is going - but Greece has room until 11 May, and from there, it will actually go on its own. The international system warns that we are living in the last days of Pompeii and only one man turns the international media by saying: "We are very close to an agreement", Yiannis Varoufakis. And I was thinking from where this terrible optimism came from. Because, or everyone else is crazy, or he's got something to do with it. And at that time I was reading online and this amazing news: Cannabis Syriza's Conservatory with the support of SYRIZA youth, where SYRIZA youth is asking today to decriminate the use of cannabis, for entertainment reasons, so that we can cultivate pots on our balcony, etc. I put it in the Minutes so you don't think I made it out of my mind. [[At this point the Member, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have the impression that Mr. Varoufakis is making a lot of company with SYRIZA youth. There's no other explanation. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u650	The President of the Parliamentary Group Potami Mr Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u651	And where did you know, Mr. Georgiadis, that I did in fact strengthen him too much for Yani Varoufakis to start writing in "protagon.gr" for the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u652	No sinner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u653	Is that what you call self-criticism?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u654	I'll tell you one more time. "What we are doing today is ruthlessly inspiring, raw violation of the Constitution, shame of democracy, because the destruction of democracy is not only carried out by tanks, but also by acts of legislative content." Signed Nikos Voutsis, Dimitris Papadimoulis, Zoi Konstantopoulou and, unfortunately, Alexis Tsipras. These, of course, when others ruled. Now that the good rulers are ruled, the same acts are a patriotic duty. Within ninety days the government managed to look like, not every word in the Constitution, which the Prime Minister mentioned in the programming statements, but with every word on the bad pages of the old system. You appoint the failed states - large lists in the Sunday newspapers - it is convenient for your party children to arrange for your friends and relatives, ignoring that there are some people there, some responsible Greeks who are waiting for some atrocities to find themselves in positions of responsibility. Nowadays, some teachers, not new ones, came from the old guys who've been trained to report to me what? Of the thirteen regional directors appointed by your Government, the twelve are party. Eleven are just SYRIZA and one is just ANEL. In fact, the Minister had the thought of putting ANELs, due to sobering and cooling, in the most sensitive educational area in Thrace. And one of the thirteen was of unknown party origin. The request from the teachers who visited me, which was not met by the Minister, was one: to make their curriculum vitae public and to compare them with the curriculum vitae of the four hundred papers that they had submitted for these posts. You'll tell me, happy in the matter! Do we even abolish the electronic vote in universities because it is the work of the devil and the machines and will we stick to the abolition of atrocities? Let me - I don't know if you've seen it if you've been able to go to Solon, but, you know, sometimes the youth is raped - to repeat a slogan I saw in Solon: 'Kim Young Baltas'. We're going to another matter now, to justice. There, of course, everything has been arranged. Two bridges, one to the United States and one to the United Kingdom, of course, have left, but these are minor losses. Unfortunately, the reality of justice, in particular, does not say to take away the joy and complacency that Minister Paradise feels and today is on the Internet - you will have seen it - that the trial that a peace tribunal is now giving is in 2031, that is, after sixteen years. You will, of course, tell me this: in a world where there will be no problems, what does it matter when the trial will be? But, to be serious, I would like to tell you that in the matter of justice you must stop lying. You say that - and I read it in your party papers too - 'No one has warned us about what is going to happen with the Americans'. Lies! We warned you in many ways and in many ways. President Obama's positive attitude in the negotiations at the side of our country was a very beneficial weapon in this negotiation and you blew it up. And now the United States is considering us as a non-friendly country. I hope you know what that means. I'm afraid some ministers don't know. I can translate it to you, but not to the public. We're not out of money, that is, we're out of allies. Even the flirting with Putin and Russia ends up in nowhere. Because it seems that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is not enough to bow down to the Presidents of the Russian companies to get 5 billion. However, let's go to the press, to the negotiations. You're asking us to strengthen you. Yes, sir. What are you negotiating? That's what we're asking. Can you tell us what you're negotiating? Can you tell the Greek people what the specific reforms proposed by your government are and what, on the contrary, are Europeans asking for? Today, as you confess, the country is out of money because some 'bads' want to strangle the 'goods'. Three months ago, you were arrogantly arrogant in that you don't need the "toxic" money of lenders. Now, the Minister comes out, Mr. Chakalotos, and says: "We were wrong. We made a mistake, which, together with the signing of the agreement of 20 February...' - his words are - 'We did not demand that the money be disbursed to cover the public's financial needs. Yes, sir. Three months later. How many other mistakes have been made in this negotiation and when will we find out? Let me tell you clearly: we have lost confidence, and of course, imagine why. If you make so many mistakes in the internal front, in education, in immigration, in government staffing, in justice, how can you believe even the most well-meaning citizen in this country that in Europe you raise the right issues and put the right priorities? Why have we lost so many months with useless tacks? And I should like to say a few specific things to you: why didn't you institutionalise the Independent Public Receipt Agency and simply give oral assurances that it was going to happen at some point? Why don't you go on investing so that people can get jobs, improve infrastructure and collect taxes and insurance contributions? Why don't you do the OECD reforms, which Mr. Tsipras very gladly declared to be going to do? When? Why don't you cut the pensions to the 50 people? Why don't you make a Single Centre for the Collection of Insurance Taxes and Combating Black Labour? You claim that your only anxiety, your only war, at the moment, the great battle, is not to reduce wages and pensions, but to lead negotiations to a dead end and to a break. What money and what currency will the pensions be paid for next month? I fear that the government's priority was never to formulate a coherent plan of reforms for the country's exit from the crisis, for a fairer relationship with the European Union. Its priority appears to be the creation of a party state and the payment of letters to groups and groups, to artisans and interests, as evidenced, day after day. The country is at risk of collapse, and the ministers are caring for the various centres of power of the multi-stakeholder federation, not paying any attention to the needs of society. You claim that you are negotiating hard to save the country and to remain in Europe, and your policies - regardless of what is going to happen in Europe - are, after all, trying to turn the country into a long time ago. Of course, we don't have any allies anymore. It is clear if anyone sees what the governments and parties of the rest of Europe say, the countries of the European south, the countries that have exceeded the crisis and are borrowing at negative interest rates. Even Bulgaria is now borrowing at very low interest rates. And here, the only indicators that are undercutting are those of production and now - I don't know if you've been able to see the figures - and tourism. And in order to rebuild uncertainty and climate, you are now talking - and this government is talking more and more often - about a referendum and elections. We are probably one of those who are not afraid, because every day we appear stronger and stronger. However, the question arises: Who are you trying to fear, talking about elections, other than tourism and the economy, apart from the real economy? Who, really, are you threatening with elections? The lenders? Are there really some - let me - so naive among you who believe that the elections will scare Mr Shoeble, Mrs Merkel, the lenders, Brussels, or are you threatening the displaced citizens to give you an even greater percentage? And all right, you had elections and you got the percentage, which is pretty dubious, and we can talk about it for a while. Do what? To what benefit will the sixty or seventy seats of SYRIZA benefit from negotiating? Aren't you afraid that the elections will mark the country's naughty final bankruptcy? Or is it - and is it a question that we are increasingly putting, you know, between us - there is only a party for you? Or is there no society but voters? There is, ladies and gentlemen, a time when you are not the one to decide on developments, but things are taking a decision on you. And I'm afraid you're running without brakes and no thoughts to hug right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u655	Thank you, too, because we've earned a lot of time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS", forty-one students and three schoolmates from the 2nd Gymnasium of Kilkis. Welcome. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Mr. Venizelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u656	Ladies and gentlemen, it was revealing the first stage of the sitting on the constitutionality of the draft law and the law currently being ratified. Institutional issues are indeed very important, because here we do not have a clear case of political and moral inconsistency with SYRIZA and ANEL to denounce the use of the instrument of legislative content as Opposition and to apply intensively as a government. We've got more to do. We have a raw institutional cynicism, which poses a deep problem of democracy, of democracy's morality. Why not go from the total complaint to the continued use of legislative acts - about 50% of the total legislative work produced by this government so far are the two legislative acts - we are going from the total complaint to the continued use and the urgent legislative procedure. The urgent bill was another negative fetish for SYRIZA and the brother party, ANEL, during the opposition period. But we have new quality characteristics. We have a new hybrid now. And a legislative act and an urgent legislative procedure. How's that? And why has that happened? Why was an act of legislative content adopted three days ago of dubious constitutionality, with very serious problems of substantial unconstitutionality: the series of ratification of legislative acts changes, the previous one, which relates to strong fiscal facilities, but this latter is urgently to be ratified by the institutions of local government, the insurance funds, the universities, the bodies of the wider public sector, the so-called general government? Isn't that strange to you? There's an explanation. This is due to the fact that the legislative act relates to the management responsibility of the legal persons in charge. Therefore, it can be linked to possible criminal responsibilities related to the beneficial use and placement of the funds, with interest rates, with unfaithfulness, with the retroactive effect from 17 March to cover Mrs Durou. And since these issues are strict, they are criminal in nature, you have no certainty as a government and a majority that the act of legislation is enough and therefore you want to surround it with the validity of the law, to make sure that the responsibilities are eliminated. That's the only explanation. There is no parliamentary or democratic sensitivity, because if there was one, it would have emerged in the previous act of legislation that our executives - such as Mr Koutsoukos repeatedly - have told you that it might be concealing scandalous facilities of major public debtors. There's no barrier. That is institutional cynicism. You're not afraid of anything! You don't reason with anything! The most clear example is the extension of the memorandum with the signature of Mr Varoufakis, without legislative authority, in the absence of the House. It was right that Mr Theodorakis said earlier that Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Varoufakis' partner and contributor at various meetings, says: "We have signed up without having ensured the flow of mid-term financing." You have, however, signed the extension of the financial facility contract, i.e. the programme, i.e. the memorandum, without guaranteed funding. And the House has not yet even been officially informed. Also rightly mentioned were the poetic emotions of Mr. Tsipras in the debate on the programming statements for every word in your constitution written with your blood, the Constitution of Postpopulation, the Constitution of Constantine Karamanlis, Andreas Papandreou, Kostas Simitis. These governments have shaped the constitution that is written with your blood. But you remember very well the definition that Marx has given for the Constitution, a monumental definition, that the Constitution is a text that enshrines a right to the main provision and annoys it in his footnote. And you are now reading the footnotes of the Constitution. And you read them inversely, bicolorously. You're so excited about your blood-painted Constitution. And you are violating fundamental provisions such as Article 102 which enshrines the administrative and financial autonomy of local government bodies, Article 16(5) for the full self-government of the Higher Education Institutions, Article 109 which safeguards donations and legacy. Because the proceeds from the benets are what it safeguards and its management, and therefore its location, and hence their profitability through interest rate and deposit security. Ladies and gentlemen, the essential issue is much more important. I saw you in the morning of the meeting, with Mr. Voutsi, who was very moved. You consider that you are doing an act of resistance, because by Act of Legislative content you collect the cash available to all the players in the wider public sector in the Bank of Greece, i.e. you are imposing internal forced lending. A forced loan was made in 1921 upon Georgopadakos, shortly before the Asia Minor disaster, when the coins were cut in half and one remained as a currency with a half value and the other became a bond of forced loan. And of course he's gone! Why are you excited? Do you think you're doing an act of resistance against Mr. Shoeble or against Mr. Draghi? You comply with what has been done in the troika's cheques. They issued a communication in Brussels as soon as the Act of Legislation was adopted in Athens and praise you for finally gathering all the general public sector available to the Bank of Greece. They took them too through your hands to stick the country with the back against the wall in the face of the negotiation, without any cash. "He acknowledges" liquidity and makes the country's negotiating position more difficult. And you say, "We are doing an act of resistance and you are not leaving us", while you are doing an act of submissiveness and even a foolish act of subjection! As was the case with the EUR 11 billion of the CFSF that we had to cover the prudential credit line, and you went and handed it over to Mr Reglin with the agreement of 20 February. And then weep and say, give us back the 1.2 billion euros that we accidentally gave. In other words, you yourself favoured the negotiation. And then you show this to your MPs, to the public as supposedly a grand act of resistance, and it is humiliation! All these are tickets you cut so that Mr. Tsipras can chat with Mrs. Merkel. Is that the institutional process? And we did it very often. But you don't even want to see the troika. You will not let the "Athens Group" enter the Ministries. But now it does not have to enter the Ministries, because cash flows are directly controlled by the Bank of Greece and it can be electronically seen what is happening. You revealed everything in the troika. All the numbers were set under the absolute control of the troika. The country is passing three months, without a plan, without a timetable. And I ask you again - I asked you this last time - is this a better life for the Greeks? Not the sizes of the economy. The size of the economy has deteriorated, the positive rate of growth has been lost, the primary surplus disappears, the deposits leak, there is a very serious problem of competitiveness, investment and employment. Has the life of the ordinary Greek, the poor, the middle? Why? And how? Our own measures were much more specific and generous and had a perspective of exiting from the memorandum and returning to normality. This tragic story, the tactical week - we think we're making time, while we're wasting time, until it goes? Till the absolute cash dead end? Well, the first fortnight. The second is how will it be replaced? How are you gonna turn the money? From the public revenue flow? What if there's a lack of public revenue? Of the doses the strangers will give us, which we didn't want, but now we're begging to get them, at least a few, even a front? And who are we pleading? The coups. We are supported by the European Central Bank, increasing the ELA over the last few months, namely the support line for the Greek banks - this line has reached EUR 110 billion - and at the same time we tell them that they are now making a coup with the banks and not with the tanks. And we denounce them and lick them at the same time, that is, an image of irrationality. At the same time, we are suggesting that the bonds which expire and which the European Central Bank has are Greek law. I've told you, I've kept them under Greek law, because they're not marketable. Does that mean they're not paid? But there's no administrative procedure for the credit event. It is a process that international markets define, by their own private process, unfortunately. What is the government's line today? Do we or do we not want the remaining doses and the new ones? Because we're confused. Sometimes we want them, and we don't want them. I told you in the previous debate that they are preparing you for the repackaging of the 30 billion euros available to you as a memorandum 3 on strict terms. Unfortunately, now is not enough to 30 billion, the EUR 15 billion of the IMF and the EUR 15 billion of the European institutions, i.e. the EUR 11 billion of the CFSF, and the EUR 4 billion that are falling short of the profits of the European central banks and the European loan at a very low interest rate. He wants new funds, because we will unfortunately have a long stay in Memorandum 3. We're not going out as we were going out in March 2016. Everything's expanding. We had a hard time closing the deal, because we had red lines. We did not want wage cuts and pensions, collective redundancies, opening up insurance, redundancies in public administration. We wanted reforms, we wanted competitiveness, we wanted perspective. But why didn't we close? We weren't shutting down because you had deprived us of our representativeness. You told the Europeans 'This government does not represent the country, and it is legalized and has no strong signature'. Who has supported foreign lenders? Sadly, you. Maybe unconscious. Why did SYRIZA, as a opposition, say to Mr. Symble, to Mrs. Merkel, 'Don't listen to the previous government, represent nothing, has no signature, no signature, no legality, no negotiation', how would we close when we went to Parliament's dissolution? But we had endurance, timing, plan. There is a primary surplus of first quarter 2015 which reaches 1.7 billion. Who, then, has benefited from the harsh and declining - I have said this before - a line of Europeans and the IMF politically? You. This is how SYRIZA was formed by a 4% party in a majority and government party. The benefit of the hard position of lenders is you. We have paid blood the consequence to save the country. And I'll tell you very clearly. Unfortunately or happily we will be rightful. There are two ways. One way is to celebrate our policy. Normally, you should apologize for what you have said and done. That's the right thing to do, safe for the country. And it's our justice. The other option is the country's destruction. We do not want to be justified because the country will be destroyed, but because even at the very last moment, you will understand lies and illusions. And we don't want to apologise from us, but from the Greek people who have heard and accepted your lies and been politically deceived. There's nothing you can do. You could close the deal if you didn't have an internal problem. You do not close, not because there is difficulty with the outsiders, but because there is difficulty with them, with you. No front, no back. Contradictory messages. A mild, a tough one. The damage is not just about the economy. It's about national power. We are with the United States against Europe. We're assigning the aircraft. We share with the Americans the natural resources of the Aegean. Then the Savva Dryros case comes. A major crisis with America and the United Kingdom. I've never seen such a visit by a Greek Foreign Minister at the State Department. To dictate the conditions in relation to terrorism and Xeros, the US Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Greek Minister smacking that nothing changes, just the conditions for the creation of the sentence. Nothing about Cyprus, nothing about Greek-Turkish, nothing about regional conflicts, nothing about Greece's geopolitical role. And then the journalists ask, "What have you discussed?" 'The issues of terrorism and economics'. Nothing about foreign policy. The first myth is 'we are with the United States against Europe'. The second myth is 'we are with Russia against the West'. Awesome. 'We reject sanctions', but Mr Tsipras votes for them. The Baltic countries remind him of it. "We don't want countermeasures for nectarines. We have solved this problem with India." "We'll get the advance from the pipeline." After the United States, we hear the other Minister say: 'There will be an American counter-proposal for the pipeline'. Other than others in foreign policy, security policy and energy policy. We also saw in immigration what the European Council said. What comprehensive radical proposal has been presented by Mr Tsipras, which goes beyond the problem for Greece and for Europe? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. I am not at all satisfied with the joint communiqué of the European Council, nor does it mean anything to triple the small funds for FRONTEX. What did Greece say when this is the major security issue, the major issue of social cohesion, humanity for refugees and irregular immigrants? Nothing. Is there anything we can say about the debt? We agreed - it says - the primary surplus is 1.2-1.5. But it can't be any more. That's very right and it doesn't have to be, but the issue is in what macro-economic study to join, what plan, to join a new memorandum and stay out of the market, a disassembly, even without growth, dependent on the drop-off of doses. But this is happening in 2015 with Greece at a point quite different from that of 2009. Think what it meant to negotiate in '09, '10, '11, '12. And where are your old arguments for the PSI, the curse, now that you get the available funds, the municipalities, the universities, the research accounts? We had made a suggestion to the funds followed by the IKA and overcompensated its portfolio to 130%. Your trade unions are responsible for not agreeing to other funds. But what was that? Clearance between state and funds so that we can apply measures to foreigners, be legally okay, be treated equally. The money has been taken by the state, which annually finances the funds, and will finance them in the dilemma. Now the funds pay the IMF. Now the funds pay wages, not pensions, because there is a failure to pay wages. There is, in fact, an internal cessation of payments. Everyone confessed to this and the Minister responsible himself. And there's no talk in relation to what you said about debts, big-hearted things, big-hearted things. At least apply the '12 decisions, which we had troubled. You're licking it, but you're not pushing it. Not even that! And what are the financial needs? You don't even know what the financial needs are. You cannot present either the financial planning or the macroeconomic framework or the shape of the financial needs. Nothing! Leave the problems created by the banking system when the deposits leave. Think of the small cooperative banks. Think of the issue of interest rates, when a municipality gets a interest rate from a 5.5% forward deposit and has to do it now with 2.5% at the Bank of Greece. But where is that money when the transfers aren't accountable? There aren't any. Mr Draghi must send this money as a natural object to maintain the stability of the banking system, because there is a conflict between the liquidity of banks, the market and public liquidity. There's no money for the market, for investment, for business, for employment. Inform yourself at last, the parliamentary group of associated SYRIZA and ANEL brothers. I saw today an audit of the ANEL's attitude. There's a sense of worthy, deep, belief of common destiny now. Amazing achievement for the first time on the left. Amazing! How many negotiating levels do you have? Did Mr. Varoufakis know what Mr. Pappas is doing on behalf of Mr. Tsipras speaking with the Frankfurt cycle? Does Mr. Juliarakis know what Mr. Theaharakis is doing? There are no contacts at the negotiating levels. I'm afraid they've gotten all this messed up. Because what's all this? All this is the absolute impossibility of reaching a decision of responsibility. You will not be able to reach any decision of responsibility. That is why you are making alleged threats: "If we find ourselves in a dead end, it will be the foreigners' fault, it will be the Greeks, the previous government and we will be forced to appeal to the people in a referendum." What referendum? Cannes? Is that what Mr. Tsipras is talking about with his visitors at the Maximos Mansion? As you call it the referendum, it will be seen as a referendum yes or no to the euro. If it's announced, the country will collapse. Forget it! Apart from the constitutional barriers, which the Constitution does not allow for a referendum on budgetary matters. Elections? Yes, sir. I get it. Isn't the majority you have? You don't trust yourself? You don't trust the ANLLs? But you're homogeneous brothers! Most, passion, knowledge of truth. You're going to an election to present what programme? The programme of Thessaloniki and its opposite? The lies and the doubts are over. Will you go for a break order or compromise? What compromise? And do you know what elections mean during the constitution? It means going to resign to the President of the Republic, nominating a government for elections. That's what the Constitution says, the first year after previous elections. So, yeah. We're the smallest party in this House, we say yes. If you can't rule, say it. Explain to the Greek people, however, the lies, the inconsistency and go ask for a mandate again. Let's see how much waste the bag works. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you of the majority, think deeply within your conscience of what is happening. Because I believe there is a closed, very closed, a circle of power, which has in mind a project. Nor does the government know either as a constitutional body or a parliamentary majority. There is a problem of opacity within the government and the majority in Parliament. That is why think, ladies and gentlemen, of the majority, exactly what is going on. You have an individual obligation to protect the country, the national interest. You can't play in these players.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u657	The two parliamentary representatives have spoken, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Friends, and I have been informed by the Communist Party that the Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece, who, as you can see, is asking for the floor on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. However, I would like to ask both parliamentarians to speak and then start talks off-line.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u658	It's impossible for me, but I don't give a damn about it anyway. I'll leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u659	If he wants to, he can lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u660	All right, Mr. Philly. I wanted to give the floor to Mr Karayannides and Mrs Kefaliannis, but you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u661	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Kutsuba. The debate has been extended to all political matters, obviously because the need is great to discuss and to discuss frankly. Unfortunately, the debate, and from this step, is becoming excessive, invoking risk, zeroing and distorting reality. I am not tempted to fall to the level of the previous speakers and to speak in the same way, because I think we are at a very critical moment for our country, for our people, for the negotiation that the government is conducting at political level, and which is not just the current, the issues of the interim agreement, but also the development plan, as well as the agreement on debt write-down and restructuring, which is planned to take place in June. I would expect the opposition parties, in particular those responsible for the current fate of the economy and society, to be more careful in their attacks and, of course, to show greater soberness and modesty, because only yesterday they were ruling and what we are living today did not result from virginity. Therefore, if they have something positive to offer in this case, they are low tones - with their views - and do not cause the Greek people. Even covert threats to criminal prosecution have been heard of what we are going to do. This is also a peculiar sense of law, which Mr Venizelos has. We want to make it clear that we do not rule on the ruins of the policy of the Memorandum governments. We seek to get the country out of these ruins. We have a plan. In three months' time, we have made a global problem, the problem of Greece, and not a idiosyncrasy of Psostina, the 'South European laundry', as we were told. We have succeeded in bringing to the international forums and to summits, to Washington, Moscow, Beijing, to the Arab world, to Tehran, everywhere, the problem of Greece, not as zetans and ready for subjection, but with a sense of pride, claiming the law and with political aim and a plan that concerns the regulation of debt and the attraction of investments, so that the machine of the Greek economy can regain. That's what we're trying to do. The people are seeing it, and even though they are aware of the difficulties of the period, they continue to support - at even greater percentages than those recorded in the elections - the effort of the government. So let us not get ugly and hurry, because the negotiation has alterations of phases and feelings. It's not straight. It is, however, a negotiation. Others understand that, because we mean it. It is obvious that this quarter is not a lost time. It is the time to reposition, to get out of the size of the prescribed austerity and neoliberal subjection the Greek problem. We do not ignore or underestimate the liquidity problems faced by the Greek economy. That is what we are trying to solve in any way appropriately we can have in front of us. And, unfortunately, when we sought such ways - known from the previous government, because it did so too - we were opposed. You remember here in this Chamber the night the law on the humanitarian crisis was passed, Mr Varoufakis' amendment to the 555 million dollars that would pass by the banks to be given to pay off an IMF instalment. New Democracy did not vote for it. This meant that if the New Democracy were to pass the view - which in Zula went through with its refusal to vote - we would have a credit event. Today, we are trying to shave the bottom, to be ready, if necessary, not to breach the basic obligation of the state that is wages, pensions, social policy. We're pronouncing. Again in front of us, a wall of denial is erected. And what is the unprofessional pursuit of counterpopulation? It is the challenge of economic and political chaos. It's destabilization. Others say it's more elegant. They're talking about splitting up the majority of SYRIZA and other political leaders. They're sleeping upright and will be disproved. We're not the ones we came here to do such tricks. We have come and sought with a plan, with realism, with a search for alliances, with confidence and honesty to the Greek people, with a search for wider consensus, to change this reality, a step and a hard way. But not to do what the Cannes then did, which Mr Venizelos remembered earlier, and other behind the scenes of their own. These are for the accounts to be clear between us. We'll all be judged. We're not lifting tons. We will all be judged on the sincerity of our intentions and the effectiveness of our policy. You have, however, been judged and rejected. And if you think that by creating political chaos and destabilisation you can turn your own political non-existence into a problem of political instability in the country, you will be disproved again. You don't have a future politician through bumps. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] From this step we heard again the mob for the elections. In other words, we spent four years with the Memorandum, where any reference to elections, i.e. to seek an alternative to the memorandum, was outlawed. The elections were about the absolute evil that would break the economy if they were to be. Again, they tell us that the elections, if they are held, will dismantle the economy. Okay, I don't know if the economy is going to be dissolved, but some people really have good reasons, it's reasonable to be afraid of them. We're not afraid of elections. We have confidence, fresh for the Greek people, and if we need our political plan, depending on developments, to be brought up in the opinion and will of the Greek people, it will be done. We coups do not do, we do not rule out of the people, we rule with honesty and trust of the people. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are therefore clear that we are not seeking elections, we are not seeking a referendum. We seek a compromise with lenders on the Greek economy problem. If, however, this agreement is needed - and I am sure it was made up by the opposition - a people's legitimacy, we will not be afraid, for the agreement, not, in general, of discussions. Net accounts. We won't be afraid. I would like to end by saying that the issues which we discussed this morning on constitutionality have been exhausted and I do not want to bring them back. I am sorry that constitutionalists, such as Mr Venizelos, are reintroducing them in a way that does not confirm at least their scientific formation. What is important and we stress it is that we will do everything possible, within the constitutional framework, to ensure that the people's unity is guaranteed and that the country's progress towards growth and debt regulation is ensured by the outcome of which regulation will be judged to a great extent, and that the country's course will also be ensured. To conclude, Mr President, I should like to respond to a demagogy which is heard about the forced loan, which is supposed to be taken by the troika now via the Bank of Greece. It is not a compulsory loan in the sense of the destruction of Asia Minor. It is terrible that the ratios that are heard here to form a collective consciousness that we are close to a new catastrophe, to a new 1922. I mean, it's a comedy. Near zeroing, risky, we also have such unscrupulous, but arrogant historical misunderstandings. No, this loan has the safeguards that have been mentioned, the money is not committed, there are conditions, interest rates are better, we know them. They've been detailed and I don't want to expand. But what matters is to understand that by extortion the Roman cannot go any further. And it cannot go on with blackmails, which seem to be: 'His master's voice', i.e. not even genuine wordings of different legitimate political views, but transferring the blackmails of the lenders, the hardest part of the lenders at the expense of the country. One last call. Do not play with the delegating scenarios of the House, with scripts that want to digitize today's House. Do not play with distance scripts. You will lose once again, and most importantly, you will create problems in the functioning of the political system while we need unity, consensus and decisive claiming a new course, a new fate for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u662	I call on the Secretary of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsouba, to take the floor. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u663	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now a common phenomenon when the government in question is pushing the mind and patriotism of the Greeks into national unity that is so necessary. But to have the good question, really, a requirement of the troika and of the partners was not the act of legislative content? Not at all, but for everyone to understand what you think is patriotic. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This patriotism, of course, you remember him every time you need the Greek people, when you want to put in the hand what's left of him, after you've "drinkled" him over and over again. This is what your current co-government of SYRIZA - ANEL does to justify putting a hand on the supply of a number of public agencies, such as municipalities and regions, such as hospitals and others. He admits that it is an internal lending operation, which even proclaims as the highest patriotic duty. In this direction, it makes use of the climate of general insecurity, highlights terrorist dilemmas, which the government itself is ensuring to maintain and reproduce with the help of creditors, a tactic that we have known very well from previous governments five years now, every time it was to come a dose or prepare the ground to close a new agreement - a memorandum. This policy will have a direct tragic effect, because the money the government puts in the hands of creditors is needed to deal immediately with the problems of the people. The snatching of the available resources will worsen the lives of thousands of families in the municipalities, making it a landslide to the fundamental function of critical services and structures of the municipalities, which serve the people's layers. I am referring to the school committees, to children's stations, to social activities, to cultural and sport infrastructures, to small contractors serving citizens, etc. It is well known that over 60% of the common self-resources, which were state-funded, have been cut over the previous six years. Today thirty, forty municipalities cannot balance budgets and give them two months' extension. We are not talking about stock, but about all the resources available. It is characteristic that the Minister responsible has not answered dozens of questions from the mayor about what it includes and how it will be implemented. On the contrary, we have heard representatives of the ruling party pleading with pride that in many states of the European Union, such as the Netherlands, which is a pioneer in neoliberalism, there is the following obligation: compulsory deposit to the Central Bank of reserves such as municipalities, insurance funds, universities, etc. Your rapporteur even told the committee that you did not discover America. We understood, of course, that it was addressed to the New Democracy and the PASOK, explaining your logic, which is their logic, in order to remind them that they are today being opposed by the safe. From this point of view, we are also criticising you that you copy, that is, as positive and legitimate, any choice of neoliberalism on the whole right, the otherwise known. As for you, of course, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what are you calling two days now? You're copied by SYRIZA's gentlemen. You talk about fascist and authoritarian methods. Your own methods are also copied by today's ones, only because they are left-wing and not right-wing, automatically authoritarianism, anti-grassroots policy, legislative acts become pride, sacrifice, for the sake of opening up the road. "Who are you secretaries and Pharisees?" And within all of this, they have courageous government representatives of parliamentarians saying in here and Arabic sayings, such as "dogs are catching, but the caravan is going on" without worrying them at all, but to where it is going. If the caravan moves you to fight on NATO side the jihadists of the Middle East, as your Minister for Foreign Affairs said, as in all tons, you have assured your Euro-Atlantic allies lately, then to good and to victory. To go on your own, however, you do not have the right to drive our people and youth there, nor of course to lure them and lure us all into your reflections, where in the desert, drying and animated sand of your alliances, the style of the European Union and NATO, you want to see odors. And so that they don't get you wrong when you're revealing, you put it in the weeping of the "burned earth", which you received, and now not just "burned earth", but raised by napalm, who is late to blossom again, as the rapporteur himself said, by preparing the world that what you say and will do in an election will therefore not be doing so, so people, live, May, to eat clover! Only you come not just second, but also repeat, gentlemen, as a political staff of the same anti-popular authority of monopolies and the capitalist road that has brought us here. You know very well that the next ones always said the same thing when they received from the previous ones, until they became the same ones, ex-boyfriends. Your words about the end of austerity have been finished, as have the memorials, which have been made agreements, and the troikas, which have become institutions, working groups. This internal lending that comes with an act of legislative content is a form of austerity. It only takes away from the people, and not only does it leave to the unavoidable the capital it holds, but it also grabs the people's money to have it available for large capital. The money you are grabbing are necessary and critical resources, which the people themselves have paid them from their misery, through the tax raid, through the payroll and go by saying. And instead of the resources heading to cover the people's immediate, great needs, they end up in lenders' pockets again. Repeat: In the municipalities, for example, it is money intended for feeding, heating, children's stations, school committees, social structures, works and services that serve steep people's needs. You can close your searches to the TEIs and TEIs, having reduced the funding to 70%. Take now and now the available, immediately drain any care left at feeding, housing, functionally, after you have rejected even the amendment tabled by the JRC to the bill for the hundreds of instalments for the cancellation of bills for school units and HEIs and TEIs to PPC. Appropriately, the situation is in hospitals. As for your hobbard representatives to various agencies, which, in addition to what they had originally provided to the Bank of Greece, after the legislative act, also gave them, for example, OAED, reaching the 170 million euros that he had in his funds to give, we have to tell them that they do not have elementary, really ticks. Because, as the unemployed themselves have complained, when they went to ask for an extraordinary, small financial aid through the OAED to pass the Passover of human beings, with their families, with their children, the inhumane answer was that there is no such possibility. The possibility has, however, been found, not for the unemployed, but for the state of the employers, draining the available resources and leaving this body cloth with sail. If it is true, as trade unions say, that they intend not to pay the compensation for those who are unemployed in their programmes in the next two months, then more quickly than anyone would expect, we will see the consequences and consequences of the implementation of this shameful act of legislation. patriotism and popular responsibility, therefore, under no circumstances can it be the snatching of the available funds to implement an agreement already signed by the SYRIZA Government on the payment of debt, a debt that the Greek people are not to the least responsible. So for the debt, this second act of legislation came. The first few days ago, in order to provoke provocatively strong business groups, who, apart from the exemptions of surcharges for the time of delay in returning income taxes, VAT, various fees, etc., were exempted up to 100% for fines imposed on them following tax controls, such as smuggling, counterfeiting, tax secrets, VAT non-reimbursement, special taxes etc. It would be interesting, of course, to see and tell us who and how many have benefited so far. The fact is that the first legislative act gives many millions of capital, while the second puts a deeper hand in the cash available to public institutions to meet the requirements of creditors and other operating needs of the State, without prejudice to the interests of monopolies to the minimum. So patriotic, in this case we are talking about today, it is not the act of coercion of the available ones. It is fair and patriotic that no Members here today, no mayor or municipal councillor who respects popular vote, no worker in that country in the dishonest transport available in the domestic lending game, the cover of creditors, that is to say, not to compromise the people themselves to pay back on behalf of capital. We also call on the Step of the House to ensure that no mayor has signed a transfer of blood from his own citizens to pay the creditors, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the Community, namely the European pluralism. In particular, today that the anti-Fraud Games have been intensified with these imperialist organisations, which smile at the summits, give and take, together with the controversies and antagonisms of this alliance of wolves, the maximum possible condemnation of such actions, such as the act of legislation. The ruling three months now only use slogans - general promises to the people. But with slogans and so - called left words, it does not fill the stomach. On the other hand, to their partners they are trying to be as specific as possible in agreeing with them on all the hot issues the agenda for the new agreement has. These days SYRIZA and ANEL have come together with its partners in the latest details of the measures accompanying the agreement of 20 February, an agreement which, as we have denounced from the outset, has from all the memorandums. "National effort" the government baptises its policy to ensure more warm state money for domestic monopolistic groups. The proud negotiation concerns interests of the ruling class, which the government seeks to serve just as the previous ones did. However, as this negotiation turns out, the people will still be lost. Somebody's going to wonder: is this negotiation really bad? Is it all communal tricks? In fact, some of the government are allegedly asking astonishing and questioning: If there is no real conflict - they say - with partners, then how does the attack of European partners and the undermining - as they say - of the government explain? Of course, we do not think that this question was raised by Mr Tsipras to Mrs Merkel yesterday or by other partners and friends, as she calls them. The position of the JRC is clear, regardless of the communication tricks. The objections to the lupus alliance and the international imperialist system in general - because this is what this is called - are real. In fact, we still maintain that compromises are relevant, temporary, fragile, and their contradictions and competition are absolute and permanent. There is a real war of interest in which part of the capital, which country in the final analysis, will come out stronger than the capitalist crisis. It is a law that in times of crisis, along with the working class, along with the people who always pay it, is deceived, a portion of the capital is destroyed. They are the factories that close, they are the goods that are not sold, they are the debts, the money that cannot be paid. On this basis there is a ruthless war between great business interests, monopolies and ultimately between states and governments representing these interests. In the European Union, in the Eurozone, there is the controversy between Germany, which is the winner of recent years, and countries such as France, Italy and others that are lost. When we say losers, of course, we do not mean their monopolies, the rich, that they have no profits, but that the gap between the respective Germans is increasing. Germany insists on a well-known tight fiscal policy, the others are seeking relaxation. They are not asking for relaxation of course, because the pain has caught them for their peoples and for the Greek people, but for the savings of state money, which will go for investment and for the profitability of large businesses. The United States of America, which, on the one hand, wants to put pressure on Germany for the lead in Europe, does not, on the other hand, want the cohesion of the euro area to be disturbed. In these contradictions, planning, the current Greek Government is part of it. It is no accident that the declarations by the government in America for the purpose of collecting the Aegean's energy wealth, nor is it a coincidence that they have paralysed from Greece half the State Department dozens of other officials, nor that the government goes and comes with its top ministers, such as the Finance, Defence and Foreign Ministers. Despite the government's attempt to present itself as a multidimensional and beneficial foreign policy, the reality is that it is becoming increasingly confused in the bucket of these steep contradictions and competitions. The Greek people have nothing to gain from these dangerous games, from the dispute between capitalist strong economies, from confrontation and competition within the Eurozone, the European Union, between the United States and Germany for the first time in Europe. At the same time, the new implementation of the Atlantic intervention plans in our wider region, the Mediterranean, the Middle East, with levers and the 'Islamic State', is under way, with the aim of controlling the markets, developments and the region directly from the United States of America. From these contradictions, only people have to lose. Besides, the system has such deadlocks and contradictions that its management cannot cure them. To date, the contradictions in the Eurozone have been overcome by compromises. There is a possibility that in the future these objections to the Eurozone cannot be reconciled. To create major breaches, even in the cohesion of the euro area. The question in all these odds and scenarios, which must be answered clearly by all of us, is who will pay the bill. Who will, for example, pay the bill from the list of reforms prepared by the government and discuss it with the partners to chain our people again in the name of the capitalist development that will come? The Prime Minister, when he promises a general promise from the Step of the House, describes a Greece whose capitalist economy passes through the phase of the crisis in the recovery phase, where capitalists get their profits and the working class, the people, the populaces bleed about it. And that promises the current government to ensure. The list of agreements prepared contains privatisations of the country's strategic infrastructure, such as ports, the fourteen regional airports, other public enterprises. The government is trying to hide - behind misleading slogans about the end of austerity, about anti-African measures, which will bring prosperity to everyone - that it is in fact committed to continuing the well-known anti-grassroots path of privatisation, the liberalisation of areas of strategic importance. This is why it presents public and private partnerships as a very new philosophical form of privatisation. As if we do not have enough experience in Greece from the PPPs, from concessions all these years. Her own reform list contains a wild tax-hunter in popular layers, to pay, even if we don't. It calls on us to give the battle against tax evasion, while maintaining all the provocative tax relief for big capital for shipowners. It contains a new attack on insurance rights with the abolition of early pensions, the integration of insurance funds that will objectively bring pensions back down, they want it or they do not want it. It puts the doubts on increasing the retirement threshold further and hides that it has already accepted the great increase in the pension thresholds brought by the previous governments. Promote the counter-incentives to every early retirement. Basically, he calls on our people to be proud to be working to the deep ages to get a hunger pension. The same goes for young people, who do not know if they will ever be retired, since they are wandering between unemployment, apprenticeship and part-time work. The will of the people to get rid of the Memorandums can gain real content when the people say 'no' to the memorials, to implementing laws, supporting the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC to Parliament and the government sabotages, since it does not bring it to discussion. The JRC in three months brought concrete proposals for legislation, which really contribute to the relief of workers, the people's strata. Just yesterday the parliamentary group tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law entitled: 'Reinstate a lower wage, reinstate 13th and 14th pensions, 13th and 14th wages. Arrangements for Collective Work Agreements and repealing anti-territorial provisions’. Ten days ago we tabled a proposal for a law on the abolition of tolls, so that people finally stop paying the exterior carpet on the national roads. We have therefore tabled amendments specific to laws brought by the government, which really relieve the people. These proposals can be the subject of a struggle between the working people's movement, against social dialogue, which are, in fact, one of the monologues of the great interests of capital. We are not terrified of the potential break that will bring about a genuinely radical political mobilisation and action by a movement that has a clear orientation against this system of capitalism, against monopolies, as others are terrified. We stress clearly that the struggle to achieve results, in order to actually bring the working class to power, the people to power, must write on its front "the break with the European Union, its capital and its power in Greece". On the basis of what we have said today in plenary and yesterday in committee, it is clear that we are voting against both hands this shameful act of legislation. To your voters, explain why else you were calling the election and others today. We know very well. After all, that is why we have been warning the people for election. This is what we stress in all our speeches in public and in the House outside of this House and we will not be tired of fighting for the right, for the truth, for the movement to be orthodox, for the people to go through the counterattack with the working class, the people in front of the people, their great social alliance. That is why we are calling for a roll-call vote to be taken in this House today, so that every Member of Parliament can individually take his or her responsibility and not hide behind collective responsibilities, government or party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u664	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Before giving the floor to Mr Karayannides Christos for exactly five minutes, I would like to make two small announcements. Ladies and gentlemen, it is announced to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice is tabling its report in the draft law: 'Democratisation of administration - Fight against Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of Jurisdiction and other provisions'. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "Electronicos VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and schoolchildren and eight teachers from the New Petricios Serres High School, Karousadoudou and with the permission of this House - if I may, I would like to make a special reference to students and students from the European Kilkis High School, which is the place of origin of my husband. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Karayannis has the floor for five minutes, followed by Mrs Olga Kefaloniannis. I should also like to say that Kilkis is a constituency of Mr Georgantas, Parastatides and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u665	Don't tell all the members of the law, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u666	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u667	It is interesting to bring back to our memory. This morning there was a whole fuss that lasted about two hours, about something the Minister said. I would like to refresh the memory of the Members of the New Democracy, reading this: 'It is a political manhood, the high priest of the interlocutory with the umbrella of immunity, to claim that I have been bought out in interests to throw the government down'. Samaras for Mr. Constantine Mitsotakis. Obviously, rewarding this saying, Mr. Samaras became Head of the New Democracy. It is also interesting - in terms of comedy, I mean - to hear the opposition of the New Democracy and PASOK burning so much for the Constitution. I will not recall the twenty-seven acts of legislation. I will only remind you of one thing that didn't even come by the House, the closure of the ERT. I would also remind you that the six hundred-page bills were coming in an article, because you didn't dare break it, because there was a chance your MPs wouldn't vote for you. I would also remind you that the urgency procedure had tended to become normal for the Greek Parliament. Because when you are criticising you should have your nest clean, it is good, since you have your nest dirty, to stop at least this criticism. It is also interesting - because I heard it from Mr Voridis this morning, again from the point of view of the comedy - to say that it is constitutionally unauthorised to tempt the fees. If the Minister responsible did not reply yesterday, I would say that this could happen. I read from Mr Marda's minutes in his speech: 'As far as the fees are concerned, they are excluded and I told you so' to the President of the CEDEFOP. To give rise to impressions, we can constantly repeat what has been said to the committees in plenary. This does not, however, produce any policy and does not produce any benefit to the Greek Parliament. With regard to universities and cuts in their available resources, do you remember something called PSI? Unfortunately, Mr. Venizelos came, took his word and left. Could Mr. Venizelos tell us how constitutional it was to cut down the reserves of universities and hospitals? Because selectively he told us something about the IKA, which is not proven, but is his saying. So he told us selectively about the IKA. Of course, forget about universities, hospitals, foundations, the fifteen thousand microfiche people. Did that hurt you because it was unconstitutional? Or just don't you remember? You want to remember what you want. But this reality has been and we will not put it under the rug. In fact, this reality has existed two years ago. It hasn't been forty years to forget. The reality that the SATA has been cut in your own years for 60%, 70%, 80% will we forget it too? Is that a constitutional thing? Is that legal? Is that moral? Is that politically correct? No, it's not. But you don't remember. It's not working. The fact that you are due to the local government for too many years, millions of millions as held up by the central government, will we forget it too? The municipalities and regions have reached this mess because it is two and a half months - three months government? Before who ruled? Others ruled, and you just took their place now? Do you want us to forget five years where you've brought the country? Do you want us to forget five years in what social disaster have you led the Greek people? Do you want us to forget exactly how you signed the memorandum? Do you want us to forget about Mr Fuchelle who had settled in the town halls and the districts and made censuses and gave you development plans for the municipalities and regions? What of all this stuff to forget? You are now showing yourself as innocent doves to support the economic and administrative self-sufficiency of local government. Except that local government broke it. You even show people who do not have a party flag. We heard that yesterday in committee. Really? Whose support is the mayors elected? Are they unbroken? Why suddenly the mayors and regionals - those who, anyway, refuse and raise a flag of resistance - did not remember all the previous years what has happened to local government? I would also like to say the following, which was said by the Bank of Greece's representative: if those local government accounts are in Eurobank or Alpha Bank and they sink, this local government money will be saved? What is the risk of going to the Bank of Greece? What exactly is it that scares local people from local government representatives? I will conclude by saying: Yesterday, the representative of the Bank of Greece repeatedly replied to the representatives of PASOK and New Democracy for specific fears that there were no representatives of both parties asking him the same thing. If, then, you are not convinced by service factors, you will be convinced of the reality that comes and then you will have to justify why you have created all this panic this week.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u668	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mrs Olga Kefalayannis has the floor. Immediately afterwards, we will be passing on to the parliamentary representatives. Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u669	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to tackle an urgent problem - in this case the lack of liquidity - which had to be dealt with by an act of legislation. We therefore conclude that, firstly, the urgency justifying the act of legislation is not the result of a well-designed attempt to improve the financial management of the general government's resources, as set out in the government's arguments, because optimising the operation of the state machine cannot - and should not - be of an urgent nature. The second conclusion is that there is a serious and urgent liquidity problem. However, the liquidity problem of the Greek economy has been well-known for a long time and a good-founded observer sees that not only is this known in advance to a government which is preparing for one - as it calls it - 'hard negotiation', but that it has also been taken seriously into account in any strategy. Liquidity, ladies and gentlemen, is neither an accidental event nor an insignificant variable. It is one of the main parameters of the design of a strategy, a policy and an economic one, particularly when it requires a tough negotiation, and especially when the situation of liquidity, due to the specific nature of the status of the Greek economy, is well known by the one you are negotiating with. So in view of the fact that the situation of liquidity was accurately recorded, can one assume that the government did not anticipate the tightness of the liquidity because it considered that it would in the meantime take the dose, thanks to its hard negotiating tactics? Then he failed miserably, making time work against her. Can anyone assume that the government considered that thanks to its successful international contacts would secure liquidity from other resources? At that time, he failed to scream, for not only did he not secure it, but instead he did all he could to anger those who might want to help. Can anyone assume that the government simply considered liquidity to be a glowing problem? But you don't have to be a university professor in the United States to know that economic operators are bankrupt by a lack of liquidity. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not hide. The truth is that either for political reasons or for internal-party balances or both, the government is baptising a "hard negotiation" of refusal to negotiate on the grounds that time is neutral, while it is immersed in front of the lenders in an animated liquidity deficit. So that the government does not pass the deadlock on to the disaster, it has had to adopt this act of legislation and ask for loans from local government agencies, universities and hospitals. This is the essence of today's debate: the government's indirect confession of failure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to believe that you will now understand the difficult reality. You're a little late, but you finally did it. And you're late because you had no plan, no plan. You follow his policy of "seeing and doing", with what that means for the real economy, which every day goes from evil to worse. All the indicators have taken it down. The market has frozen, many businesses, especially small and medium-sized, are again experiencing the spectrum of disaster. This means that once again the ghost of the recession will return to Greece sooner or later, that unemployment will not only be reduced, but that conditions are created to increase again. Even tourism, the main pillar of recovery last year and last year, the main blood donor of our economy, sends messages of concern. SETE statements are indicative. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, do something now! Move, rule at last, speed up the negotiation. Make decisions, deal with the daily lives of the citizen, with the escalating violence, the lawlessness and the rapid deterioration of the center of Athens. The endurance of the world is exhausted along with the money. There's no time to lose, there's no time to rest. I repeat that today's debate is also the complete confession that any of your plans were completely failed. It's all wrong! And if you don't believe me, listen, read and think about the statements made by Deputy Minister Euclid Tsakalotou. He knows something more. I would also like to mention one last point concerning the dilemmas that Mr Voutiss has already raised. Don't worry, gentlemen of the government. We have no dilemma. We know who we are, we know what we want, we knew well where we were going. We were and are with Greece, in the interests of the country, with the security of the Greek people. We're with them and we're accountable to them. Everything else is fake dilemmas to avoid reality. And now you know firsthand that reality is stubborn and avenged by those who do that they ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u670	Thank you Mrs Kefaliannis for the accurate maintenance of time. Mr Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u671	Thank you, Madam President. Christ, she's resurrected! Happy birthday! Today we are discussing the second act of legislation from the coexistence of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks in just two and a half months. And if we look at the entire legislative work, we have three bills and two acts of legislation, which are electionally and post-electionally - in the Prime Minister's programme statements - the scorchists, such as the devil of the hammer. It seems, however, that you, too, have entered the well-known pedestrian dictated by international loan sharks. In the morning there was a lot of talk about whether this act of legislation is unconstitutional or not. We have seen hypocrisy run out of all the wings about some of the expressions or words said by some Members, some ministers, but none of you all, three years now, where the Golden Dawn is in the Greek Parliament, and at the moment it is the third political force, whether it is like or not to some, when the worst against the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the Chief of Golden Dawn, to the members, to the executives, to the hundreds of thousands of voters most of you do absolutely nothing, no one is complaining, perhaps with infinite exceptions. On the contrary, intimately or obviously, you are pleased at the attempt to penetrate our movement, which seems to have the opposite effect. And as you do, it will have very opposite effects, dramatically and in a very short time. The Government has forgotten the revolutionary announcements of the abolition of the memorials - even with an article - the heavy statements made up to two and a half months ago. When the new government slowly decommissioned it, it put it in time. He also forgot the audit of the debt, which was on the daily agenda and SYRIZA as well as the Independent Greeks, and some individual efforts do not believe they will have a happy ending or could have some continuity. Our lenders or, better, our exploiters have become your best friends. We see this from the constant visits of Varoufakis to the various forums of the proven unwilling Soros. But even before, if we remember, the messages had been given, the real intentions of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, with his visits to Texas, Komo, some clubs corresponding to the Bilderberg Club or even Mr. Stathakis' statements, that the burdensome debt is only 5%, so we should not worry. All this was said at some point and you are not upset and you are sorry, Mr Colleague, these were the statements made by your Chief, but anyway. Go ahead, forget it. Let us not forget many other revolutionary statements made by the Minister, Mr Lafazani, who has just left - who, if he was in Anti-Policy today, would certainly have dismantled his rebellion with what happened. But he didn't sing a word, literally. We heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and, at first, the procedural questions, but also during his speech, say 'we are overcoming popular rights'. That's right. Like this. That is why the world has voted for you, and that is why you may also have the tolerance of some other part of the Greek voters, the Greek citizens. It has not, however, voted for you to bring acts of legislation in order to make 'wicked' compromises - not to say anything else - with international loan sharks. He voted for everything you have been shouting for years in the election, but also immediately after the elections, which, by magic, were cut. You said, Mr Philly, that they do not have a future policy. That's right, you said. The New Democracy has absolutely no future, because three and a half years now, from 2009 onwards, it said other things at first, as you were saying beforehand, but when it entered the government it did exactly the opposite of that and its political future is predetermined and finalised. If you do nothing different, you will have the same political future. You referred to the Greek people's fresh mandate, which reminds you that it voted on you for the election and not for what you have been doing for two and a half months. All the time you and all the government officials say that you are seeking a compromise with the problem. The compromise seems to be extremely painful for the Greek people. Of course it has nothing to do with the solution. The solution is one and it is specific. This huge debt that strangles the Greek people, the Greek economy, the Greek society, if somehow it is not eliminated, is not drastically, dramatically reduced, there will be no growth of any kind, we will never see light in this country. You said that the act was temporary. Possibly because - since you say that money needs to be paid for next month's wages and pensions - you may next month bring in a new act of legislation in order to put your hands on the people's deposits - those left - to pay the wages and pensions next month, or perhaps the roof and food of the roads of irregular immigrants who enter our homeland, after they have found an open door and a pleasant hug waiting for them. And they should somehow budget them. If we judge the announcements of your officials and your ministers, you want to rent them a roof, "to make them", "to show them". At the same time hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens are dying of starvation, even now, who are trying to improve their quality. You said that the life and the state of the previous government did not legitimise it to say what was said this morning during the cliffs, which were probably for the sight and had absolutely no substance. But neither are you legitimate to continue with this Memorandum of Understanding, because that is what this is all about. In any case, "Sunday short holidays". In June the four-month extension that you are racing is over, you will eat it. That's where everything will look, if you guys were right, if the other guys were right, whether we were right or someone else's right. We repeat that the tolerance shown to you by the Greek people is ending. He can't wait any longer because he wanted more for you to bring him. Of course the New Democracy is not entitled to speak. It is funny to speak of those who three and a half years have now brought unemployment to levels of world leadership, those who led thousands of people to suicide, hundreds of thousands of others to immigration, and even those who could reinitiate the Greek economy, if there was a regime that would help them and give them the weapons, the victims, in order to create and go to all the lengths and backs of the earth. We heard from Mrs Kefaliannis a moment ago saying that the country is returning to recession. Why was the country? Was he somewhere else? Did you visit any other country, Switzerland, Norway, Abbu Dhabi or somewhere else and have you confused them? Because our country in recent years has been in constant recession, destruction everywhere. Neither did the small and medium-sized ones see white days to see black and then again white days or anything else. Let us make a hypothesis that the act of legislation is necessary in order to pay wages and pensions. That's what you say. The money you had for wages and pensions you gave it back to pay back some instalments of loan-to-deposit loans to the international loan-to-earning loan-to-earners. That's it and that doesn't change. That is what you said in other words, but now you have changed everything. There will never be growth in any way and our country will not be able to raise its heads unless you do what the opposition said until three months ago, in different ways, what you were saying. Accounting for the debt, deletion of the shameful debt, which is this after the audit, so that we can see what we have, what we owe and what we can do. He can never grow while we're in the size of the memorials. You promised too much and apparently you can't keep any of this. Do what you have said in the election, in order that there will be at least something positive for this place. We are voting against, as the previous speakers of the Golden Dawn and our special speaker, the legislative act and why it is unconstitutional, but also because it is anti-national and has absolutely no substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u672	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos has the floor as Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u673	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u674	Excuse me. Immediately afterwards, because I have announced Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u675	Okay, right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u676	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today, from early at noon, in the midst of voices and cries, but also a moment ago Mr Venizelos, just on the same line, calling on us to hurry, to do what they did, he says, and what he did in 2009: to sign immediately what the lenders dictate. You know, in addition to the great evil that the policy of the memoranda has done, there seems to be still something even greater: and it is the intransigence of all these protagonists in the humanitarian crisis. The Greeks and Greeks saw some colleagues from the opposition who said that when the new government took responsibility for the country, there would be no health paper. And this colleague asked the Minister, Mr Voutsi, to stop asking for self-restraint, a sign of self-criticism. There again, one can see, within the television footage of the Mints, and another colleague, who said it would be such a catastrophe that he would take his children and his wife and go abroad. He was here, though, and he was shouting and he was making a fuss. And he didn't think that too many Greeks know that there's a relative name on the Lagard list. But you're not bored. They think it was Mr Bobola's only yesterday that there would be no more. It's only with Mr. Bobola! Today, however, an economic paper on its front page speaks of relatives of former Ministers, Ministers. He's talking about politicians, shipowners, industrialists. And he says Mr. Bobbollas was lying yesterday. And I wonder why the government left him lying, that he came alone, because today the newspapers write that the financial prosecutor made a warrant, that the police and his son "great patriarch of intercourse", as Kostas Karamanlis said, was arrested and told him that this money was not money that he wanted to say, as a patriot in doing, coming and paid, money taxed, money from business profits. But it was tax evasion money, it was sinful. However, if there is no trouble here every day in Parliament, what will Mr Bobola's channel have to play? The substance? Because what is the essence of today? What if we did not have an act of legislation today, and we had a draft law that said 'You all know very well that since August, all Greeks have closed their canoes, they know that all Greeks - and those who do not have a lot to do with economic, political, pensioners, workers, the unemployed - have a plan to force the Greek Government to surrender to the appetites of foreign creditors and to force this government to bring new measures to the detriment of the people, in order to complete the salvage of the previous coexistence'? Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely wanted to ask questions from ordinary citizens. If it were a draft law, would the Vice-Presidents vote on it or not, if they did not have the excuse to make the problem of the act of legislation, whether it is constitutional, if it is unconstitutional? We heard just before Mr. Friend. He said what would happen in a similar case, if the views of the parties that constitute it - somehow the newspapers - were to say, together with the PASOK, the New Democracy and the Potami, the pro-Europeanists. We're not one of them. They are, but it seems to be another Europe. It is not Europe that its great founders have envisioned. It has nothing to do with Europe, solidarity and social cohesion. Today, does the refusal by the Members following the orders of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos to negotiate the country? Can they tell us who he serves? They have been misunderstood, he says, with what the Minister put forward. But, if you'll excuse me, but today their proposal, does their refusal serve lenders or not? Today, was Mr Venizelos' speech not precisely the translation of all the arguments we read in the newspapers presented by the creditors? Oh, but, that homogeneity! Don't they get it? The accident is they don't understand it, but they dragged the place into the gutter and into misery. And nobody's crying for them. If, in fact, we find ourselves in front of the need for the Greek people to respond, they know very well what his answer is and that is why they are working on these plans, he says, these kinds of plans, to see them all together in a joint ballot. You heard this morning and this afternoon and Mr. Loverdo. You heard Mr. Venizelos coming out this afternoon. They're afraid of elections. Why are they afraid of elections? For of course, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have understood that the new government has been denying all these months, in all the ways, to do the same as the previous ones. And as much as they avoid responding clearly what they want and what the Memorandum and the Neo-Memorandum Forces are pursuing, we have decided that together with the Greek citizens we will give the battle until the final victory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I wanted to ask both the mayors and regional leaders of all Greece to ask their citizens. Does their refusal reach agreement on the citizens, those who voted on them? Is it possible, at the moment, for the Archbishop of Athens and all Greece to come out and say that the Church is ready to give its fortune to this battle by the Greek Government and some, I believe, a few mayors, district rulers, known to us all - some of our colleagues here in Parliament, some others are first-class political parties - to say that they do not want to give the money of the Greek people? Where? In the Bank of Greece, where the state comes and guarantees them and they turn them whenever they want interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also sure that the Independent Greeks, with all these deeds, which happen every day in this Parliament, are sure that those who refuse to help in this effort, so that the country does not suffer asphyxiation, are wrong. That is why we, loyal to what we have said in the election today, wanting to be the necessary good, of course we will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u677	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mr. Michaloliacos has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u678	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not need fifteen minutes, perhaps five. Everything was said here today. The arguments on both sides were developed. I would simply like to say, in summary, that we are also being called upon today to vote on an act of legislative substance, which brings about a government which has denounced, with its full force, the acts of legislative content, twenty-seven the number that the New Democracy and the PASOK had at the time, the coup d'état of the Memorandum. On the other hand, denouncing New Democracy and PASOK from the point of view of having the act of legislation is really acidifying, it is, I would say, provocative, since the coup d'état of the two parties has done so on several occasions. Today we are called upon to vote - and we will vote later - by roll-call vote. And there will be no surprise, since the forces of the parties are appointed and they vote for them. There is no case in any case for the government to overturn the decision. Even Democrat would come here and prove with unequivocal arguments that this act should be voted against, but it would still not be voted against. According to it, therefore, the reserves of the local authorities and of other public bodies are to be committed. And this must be done, as the honourable Minister has said, for reasons of national need. The question above all is whether there is a national need and what we mean by national need. Is there a national need for a dose to the International Monetary Fund? We don't think so. The problem is: If these reserves were not available, there would be no money to pay salaries and pensions. So a greater national need is for the government, a left government, to pay the International Monetary Fund, rather than the wages and pensions of the wider public sector. It has also been mentioned that this whole energy is an internal lending. As I am used to, I shall refer again to history, to a "internal lending" during the Revolution of 1821, when the Messolong was besieged. At that time, they called on Nafplio’s residents to give each one of his postures, in order to raise money for the defense of the Messologist. Then a beggar was found from Ivali, who was a widow, murdered her husband and all the family, and showed her silver ring. It was the famous Psokotina, which has been called the Greek state since then. I would like to ask a question here, which goes beyond the limits of today's vote. Of all those who gave up all these decades like state rodents, getting state supplies, one was found in this extraordinary need for years to say 'I give so many millions of debt services'? I'm sorry to say that, but no one was found. I will say this directly: this country's magnificence is far beyond betrayal! This shows the facts, unless there is any relevant information to the contrary. Then, then, an internal loan was made for the Messolong. And I would like to ask now: is it possible for the dose of the International Monetary Fund to be the Messolonghi? Is that the national need? And if there was a national need, that was the way, Minister, in order to serve, that is to say, an act of legislative content, or should everyone here together, unitedly, raise the issue of a national need, yes, to say no, to the loan sharks, to return the national sovereignty to the country, which has been assigned to the memorandum, in order to denounce the memorandum? Then there would be no one in this Chamber who would say 'no'. Everyone would agree. But with this approach, with the act of legislation, the thing is definitely going elsewhere. Let's talk about internal lending and go to 1922. I would like to mention the example of the honesty of a parliamentary man and to stand by this example and compare it to all those who, as the Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable Member, Mr Metropoulos, have made their money abroad, other than Golden Dawn - not even one -. So we're at 1922. Greece's bleeding. The Minister for Finance is the Protopadakis, who decides to cut the drachma in two, that is to say to commit 50% of the deposits. He doesn't have any deposits at the bank. He has a big property in the center of Athens. He mortgages it last day for two hundred and fifty thousand drachmas, then mythical amount, and the next day he has a hundred twenty - five thousand. He's giving the example. Do we have such examples here? I think not. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Golden Dawn insists on its position. Debt is a burden. And burdensome is a debt that went not for the benefit of the people, but for the benefit of an oligarchy, which still exists and tyrants the place. It is certainly not going to solve the problem with substantial moves, but until now as an impression, such as the arrest for a few hours of the son Bobola. Golden Dawn considers debt burdened and believes that the current government should have denounced it at the first moment, as it had been committed by election. Golden Dawn insists on the complaint of the memorandum and, as we voted against the acts of legislation when New Democracy and the PASOK were in the government, so we will also vote against this act of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u679	Thank you, too. It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, nineteen students and students and two teachers from the Kymnasium of Cyprus Evros, from the Aristotle Evros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Theocharis, you have the floor for five minutes because of the previous speech by the President of your Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u680	With a little tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u681	We'll show some tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u682	Thank you very much, Madam President. Another act of legislation. First you hid it from us. Extraordinary and unpredictable needs prompted you to this measure. What are these extraordinary and unforeseen needs? How did we get here? First we will discuss it because you have passed a provision, but the ones you promised to make them, you have not gone through it, you have been unable to do so by means of an act of legislation to correct it quickly, to prevent them from taking advantage of it. They've already taken advantage of it. In the second, how did the country get that way? Just a few steps. Firstly, the previous government has not been able to agree for six months. Now he's an honorer, now he's asking for the deal quickly, quickly, varon. But six months he didn't agree. You three. And we're still waiting. Since August we have had help from our partners. The reasons, the same. You cannot internally manage the agreements. First the party interest, after the country's interests. Second, you haven't done anything since you swore. You must ensure, as I have said in private, but above all by questioning the House, that 500 million taxes are paid. You've delayed traits and criminals, I'd say. Taxes of 2013, to be collected, so that we are not at the end of the month "the wall". Open the 2014 statements. Last year the legal persons, the income tax, ended these days. This year they haven't opened. Ten May and we see and you're forced to take money, which you could have just taken normally, by the ordinary procedure. You're going back five billion. revenue, legal and natural persons. You will be taking it after the bonds of the European Central Bank. You're setting up without a limit, and you're giving the rich money. Is that why you were elected? Is that who you represent? You brought us a bill on regulations with a custodial title: 'Agreements on the relaunching of the economy'. You told us "every month we have one billion. Without it, we must do something, we must correct it." How unresolved did we have in March after your settings? One billion, let me inform you, if you don't know. A billion! A hole in the water! Already a loser. Thirdly, you do not shield the negotiation. The same measure would be the same act of legislation at the beginning of February. Now it's a despair signal and everyone sees it. People see it, the partners see it, everyone sees it. You have the courage to tell us how you do it to negotiate. You are undermining the negotiation, of course, because you are causing panic with an increase in output, which fortunately leads to an increase in ELA from the European Central Bank. One and a half billion this week. All of a sudden, ELA's up. But it also leads to even greater dependence on the European Central Bank, even more difficult to negotiate than the 'institutions' and the European Central Bank. You press cooperative banks leading to a higher concentration of the four systems. Was that your policy? Concentration in a few systemic banks? You exclude the funds from this legislative act that Mr Michalopoulos, director of the Bank of Greece, told us yesterday that he had the largest amount. Now if the funds don't give you what you're going to do? You're going to cut off the grant? Are you going to do it indirectly? Is that what you're going to have to do? You're fighting for the famous red lines. Let's see them a little, let's see who you're fighting these red lines for. VAT. Who told you that social policy is being done through VAT? Where did we see it written? The rich spends more. So he's getting more than that. Social policy is made by income tax and by benefits. This is not the case with the excise duty. Unemployed people don't spend their time getting away with VAT. This is not an attempt to help the unemployed, what you are doing. Early pensions: The 60-year-old pays the 50-year-old pension? Is that what we want? Is that fair? If, after sixty-five years, we have lived for 15 years, that must be the limit. We can live for 15 years. It is premature to give only the categories in which we have less anticipation. If miners live ten years, they must be retired for the sake of justice. Just fair. Otherwise the cost is paid by the unemployed 50-year-old, who can't be retired. Privatisations, public property exploitation. Are we going to get the matures back? Only if there are irregularities, if there are problems. Are you going to pay compensation? Whose money? Are we going to pay compensation to contracts signed by the retired person? Don't sell. With you. Let's not sell. Change terms where this is possible. Hold a small percentage or higher. In short, make jobs, take development measures, stay away from interests, and so we will help you. Finally, pension reductions. No, we should not accept pension reductions. But how do we lead to pension reductions and tell us. Do lenders drive us or does the government itself? Because you don't reduce pensions when you have powerful funds. You have powerful funds when they have revenue. They have revenues when you have no unemployment and when you have no "black" job, not when you have a recession by not doing anything for three months. Uncertainty, insecurity, fear, polls say, has gone beyond hope already. Investments have been frozen. All this leads the funds to suffocation and ultimately to reductions in pensions. Today's Eurogroup and this act of legislation are an attitude to a difficult event, not like the morning with the shameful behaviors to which we are all witnesses. Time is running out on Greece, Moscovisi tells us and instructs Servas Deruz to look quickly and immediately to see the consequences of a Grexit. Watch it, gentlemen. It was a bad climate today at the Eurogroup and at the New York Times, your friend Professor Krugman says you were asking if they wanted to shoot you. The man didn't ask around the corner. The government asked. That's the ones he saw. He replied: "You have friends, there is a way, there is a place to find a deal. Do it. Find a solution.’; You guys go into conspiracy. That's how much Annell got into you in three months? Conspiracy? Ladies and gentlemen of the co-government, a semi-permeable membrane separates you from the problems of society. The real problems don't come within the government to solve them, so you solve the fantastic, like Savvas Xirus, who is concerned? Nobody. The deadlocks of your parties are passing through this membrane and going to society. You export them to society. You cannot go through an agreement from the House and now you are talking about the design of referendums and elections. But your failure cannot be blamed on society. Rule and find solutions. You have more support than you have been voted on. Which one of the previous governments can say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u683	Mr. Theochari, a little sooner, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u684	Wait a minute, Madam President, I'll be done. You don't work for the unemployed like this. You don't work for the professional and the outsiders. You only work for the guilds. But these will be the first to turn your back. Watch out, 'cause now it's hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u685	Thank you, Mr. Theocharis. The Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Lafazanis, will follow, and I say this to the Government, three Members. If the ministers want to talk after the three MPs. Here, Mr. Lafasan, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u686	Why ten minutes? I don't understand. You're making an economy to me? Madam President, I would not have given the floor to speak at today's sitting, if I did not see that there is a fifth contingent, voluntarily, the hardest reactionary core that exists today in the European Union, and if I did not see that these people, unfortunately, with their clerical attitude to this cruel, reactionary European establishment that destroys all of Europe, are careering in this country and there are through these circles and climbing up from these circles, literally drinking the blood of the Greek people. These people can't stand criticism of the establishments - both domestic and foreign - and take this criticism as weakness and translate it as a undermine of the country's interests. This new rajadism, which is now reaching its peak, does not express anything in our society, absolutely nothing in our society. And the more these people who are embroiling within the New Democracy, PASOK, Potami, express themselves, the more the Greek people are convinced that it has an alternative and that the government is now expressing its deepest desires, its deepest expectations. We see in the legislative act that the New Democracy, PASOK, Potamio, interconnected media and some mayors and regionals have erected here on behalf of the Greek Republic, which discovered the rebellious and social protest and who had never stepped on the road to protest, for so many years, mayors, and suddenly the act of legislative content has disturbed them - an operation of terrorization and oppression of the Greek people on the occasion of the act of legislative content. I would like to make a few points. Of course, act legislative content is not a pleasant thing. But what is the difference in this act of legislation, which we are debating here, from all the previous ones brought by the New Democracy and the PASOK, the so-called coexistence of destruction and malnutrition? Here we do not have an act of legislative content in order to circumvent the House, not to have a debate in plenary, to be formulated legally through the legislative act and later, when the matter has been forgotten and the data has been formulated, to bring it in - if we bring it, as was done with the ERT, which has not come at all - is supposed to be a debate, to fall softly. Here the legislative act expressed the real needs for which this institution has been formed. With her statement she began to work by law and immediately came to the House to discuss it. Indeed, the debate in the House, as you can see, is conducted in a normal way. The New Democracy has not put pressure on the government to have a debate in plenary or to do a committee with the bodies. Of course, the New Democracy has protested. The government wanted this debate to take place, and, in my opinion, we had to keep this debate in plenary for all the ministers to speak, for all the Members to speak and for real discussion to take place on the current situation in the country and the alternatives that exist and proposed. That's what we did and that's the difference. Here too, we do not have an act of legislation which comes to be legislated with a provision in a bill, namely the zuca. Here we have a special arrangement, a special debate, a special plenary session at which we are only discussing this issue. Secondly, you mentioned unconstitutionalism. Unfortunately, however, this reference to unconstitutionalism has not been made for legal reasons but for political reasons and we have all seen it. Some say that when we were in opposition, we made - and personally - objections of unconstitutionality too many times. Sure. But we did and supported them. In particular, we supported them on the basis of the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament is neither SYRIZA nor has SYRIZA appointed it. Nothing but SYRIZA is the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. We respect it, however, as an institution and always did the trouble and read the reports of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. We saw her objections and remarks on unconstitutionalism, and we had a duty then, when the Scientific Committee of Parliament itself tabled them in plenary, tabled them before us, brought them forward for debate in plenary and raise issues of unconstitutionality. Where did you base the argument on unconstitutionality? Have you read the report from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament? Nor does it leave the act of legislation unconstitutionalism. So where did you discover gentlemen, some of you lawyers and constitutionalists, unconstitutional? And this is the way to introduce this kind of debate into the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u687	In what other case does the House say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u688	Don't be exposed because you've been a Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u689	Mr. Athanasios, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u690	The Scientific Council of the Parliament is never expressly mentioned about unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u691	Don't expose yourself. Read the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament and report on constitutional issues. I am not a lawyer, I am not a constitutionalist, but I am trying, when such issues arise, to have legal arguments and not a general argument, like the one we have seen, the 'theatre' that you have made this morning. For 'theatre' was going on. The third argument is that, in the legislative act, the one we have brought about, with the reserves, damages public entities. They're losing their money. Gentlemen, who are you cheating at? Where are you headed? And why this incomplete demagogue? How do you support the argument that, by giving the funds available to the Bank of Greece to manage the Bank of Greece and to be able to make use of the public, they lose their money? I'm sorry to hear that and the JRC. In other words, it is very nice if the right-wing mayor or regional mayor manages them, the money is exploited excellently, but if the SYRIZA government goes to use them then the money is lost, then the operators' reserves are at risk. Which bodies? Most of the current bodies have administrations appointed by the New Democracy and the PASOK. We haven't changed them. So if they manage these administrations are on the right track? And if he manages them in a specific direction, then are the reserves at risk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u692	Is that why you get them because they're right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u693	Don't talk. Expose.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u694	That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u695	Expose. I know you're disturbed by the argument, but don't show it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u696	We're not bothering each other at all. But is that a argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u697	What's the problem now? Speaking of which, the most important thing is where the money goes. Mr Mitsotakis said that we are doing this act of legislation and the money goes to the Bank of Greece, because the country went bankrupt. Do you really claim that? And your parliamentary representative says so. And what message do you send to this country? To negotiate a bankrupt country at a critical moment? This is not how you undermine the country's position and not the government's position, when from the Step of the House you eclipse this kind of...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u698	Mr. Mardas said so, Mr. Mitsotakis didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u699	I am not saying this for you, but for your parliamentary representative, who is absent and has not come to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u700	I'm sorry to interrupt, Minister. Mr Mardas said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u701	Excuse me, that's the truth. That is what your Parliamentary representative said. You had to rise up, react. What are you talking about? At this time, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are on the outside for negotiation and need support, regardless of whether you support the government or any differences you have with the government. Because their support is support for the country. The best they can achieve will benefit the Greek people. And you come here from the Step of the House to talk about bankruptcy! If we do this with the act of reserve legislation, we do not do it because there is no money to support wages and pensions. The government's revenues and revenues will support wages and pensions, and indeed - I would say normally. But you know very well what the problem is. The problem is that the country has no funding since last August. It is obliged to cover all its own needs with its own revenues, and we are supposed to be on a programme and, of course, there should be funding. There was no funding for your own government, and there is still no funding now. That is the problem that we are facing and which creates liquidity security issues for the public. In order to strengthen this public security, therefore, in order to have greater negotiating capacity, this legislative act has come. And you come here and you've raised the universe! What do you want, in other words, to weaken our country's position? Don't you want to negotiate more safely? Do you want the lenders to know that there is even one case in the thousand to have a problem with the Greek public and its liquidity? Is that what you want them to know?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u702	Your Minister said so publicly on television, we didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u703	So, because you want to oppose for tiny reasons, do you want to weaken the government's ability to negotiate? That's what you're doing right now, and that's your goal. You want to hand the country over to the fingernails of its lenders, its creditors, to the fingernails of the hardest German establishment, to the fingernails of the hardest ward of the German leadership and of course of the IMF. That's what you want to do. That's your goal, anyway. Because if we did not have a government of SYRIZA, we would now have a new memorandum. We would have the Hardouveli measures, you would have implemented them, we would have entered a new pillaging of pensions, wages, labour rights, a new sale of the country, and that would have been a rescuing of the country - a respectable Memorandum of Intent - as you'saving' and'saving' the country for five years, a Memorandum of Integration and a Memorandum of Exhibition. Hey, you've saved the country enough! We don't want you to save her any more. That's enough of the country's rescue! The Greek people have understood what you represent and what you want, what your prospect is. That is why you are not proposing an alternative, and that is why you are not supporting the government effort at this time. It is a difficult attempt, enormously, to cope with and make an agreement that is compatible with our programme, compatible with the alternatives that the country needs. Do not expect SYRIZA to sign an agreement that will impose new measures on the Greek people. Forget that. It's not going to happen. What our government signs will be compatible with our programme and will not contain any measures or a sellout of the country. The country has the power to negotiate such an agreement and to proceed with such an agreement. In any case, Greece has alternatives and alternatives to move forward and to rely on and stand on its feet as much difficulties as it can face. If anyone does not stand up to these alternatives, this will not be the country, but they will be the ones who want to put us in the memorial boot, in the worst form yet, in order to serve the dirty plans, which, unfortunately, have for Europe and its future. Because the design is not just against Greece and the Greek people. The design relates to all European peoples and to the German people, because all the peoples of Europe must be levelled up in order to speculate and triumph the stock exchange elites and the multinationals of Europe in this so-called international competition. Greece is the experimental animal. But the government of SYRIZA will not become their experimental animal. We have the possibility and support of the Greek people, of support from the peoples of Europe, to follow a progressive path and we will follow this progressive path either by agreement or without agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u704	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u705	Excuse me, Mr. Kikilia.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u706	Mr. Mitsotakis isn't here. The Minister has referred to him, and I have to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u707	Are you Mr. Mitsotakis? Excuse me, Mr. Kikilia,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u708	I have to answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u709	Mr. Kikilia, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u710	No, that can't be. Should we wait two hours?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u711	I would then ask for the floor on staff, since Mr Mitsotakis is not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u712	I do not accept that. Bring in a replacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u713	You are not presided over now, Mr Colleague, as in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u714	Please, Mr. Kiilia and Mr. Diamantopoulou, don't fight. Mr. Kikilia, excuse me very much, but you are not Mr. Mitsotakis. When Mr. Mitsotakis comes and asks the floor, I'll give him the floor. But I have already announced who the speakers will be, Mr Kiilia. He hasn't talked to a Member for about an hour and a half. I appealed to the government and asked that another Minister should not speak in order to enable Members to speak. That is why I shall give the floor, as I have said before, to three Members, and let me be forgiven by Mr Koutsoukos, who has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative and is preceded by it. They will therefore speak three Members for five minutes and Mr Koutsoukos will follow. Mr Diamantopoulou has the floor and I would ask that Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u715	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law cannot be discussed without seeing it through the political - social - economic framework at least in the last year. The country stands up, pays its obligations, both inside and outside, from August of last year, without borrowing. And we can't take a key point out, on January 25, when that government took orders. And the mandate was given to it for two main components of its programme: the tough negotiation, the ten-day programme, which started, and the ten-month programme essentially for how the country would be reconstructed, and we would go to a reconstruction of the productive sector. Through this, however, we also had to deal with a specific pitfall, which had been woven between lenders and the previous government. At the moment, it is clear that the lenders themselves are undermining and undermining the agreement, which was ultimately not a virtue of 20 February. They do this in a tough way, through this fiscal loop that they have passed into our necks and the suffocating lack of liquidity they impose. The government must stand up and, in order to stand up, resort to honest internal lending. In what way? By Act of Legislative Action. Obviously, we have had a hard review, and we did well and we did hard criticism. But, above all, we have criticised the contents of the previous government's policies. That was the gentleman. Obviously this instrument has extended our criticism. What does the government actually do? It takes - be careful - the surplus - I repeat, the surplus - of the cash resources. It will first ask the institutions what is necessary for them - especially the municipalities and regions - and then make use of them on behalf of the Bank of Greece. But look at that. It's clear. I shall address the rhetoric question, namely to tell us what is the good deal for the opposition parties. Tell us, too, what now, to agree on a cut in wages and pensions, a sale of public property? However, it is assumed by your positions that this is what you seek. You're not saying that. You're looking for it. So everyone from the local government - particularly after yesterday's hearing of the bodies - must know that either unwittingly or voluntarily, because they have a specific political origin, are entering this process of the fifth phalanga, which is now clearly implemented in this country. If they want to see it differently, they must begin to adapt to it if they have been solved by the spirit and by the spirit of all the questions and requests that have been put to them. And to explain and not to misunderstand ourselves, I do not know if this country has returned from a sovereign country, from a country that has specific borders, to a state-state. There is autonomy, we defend it, and indeed the Minister will meet with the institutions and bring what is needed to promote the self-government agenda. But we are not states-states. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has one purpose: to keep the country standing. And we all see what the political appeal is. The lenders have said so too. At the end of June, we all know in here, as well as the citizens, that what is to be paid out is much more than that country's potential. We have made the decision: we will not be responsible for anything that is going on in the Eurozone, and that is what we are fighting for. We will get to that point that everyone agrees that those debts, bonds and everything else there is cannot be covered in order to come to an honest agreement. If some people consider that we must be responsible for starting a domino developments or if they are the ones who want to move into a process of honest compromise - because we will not get there - which then everyone who has borrowed us to be responsible for what is going on in the Eurozone must say now. In conclusion, and outside the substance of the bill, I would like to address those who tried to take the real debate on both days in the committee and this morning. I want to suggest that they hear a song from the band "TYPES", "Keep on the show, monkey". I would also like to send another message to 'televisionmakers' of the media, especially in the afternoon zones, which I do not respond to their invitations to attend their emissions: 'Love and I am not blackmailing!' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u716	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Emmanuelides, I would like to announce to the House that a request was made, in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, by fifteen Members of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, to hold a roll-call vote on the principle and on the Article of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Repeal of 20 April 2015 of an Act of Legislative Content'. Also, the President of the Group of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas and the MPs of his party tabled a proposal for a law on 23-4-2015: "Reinstate a lower wage, reinstate 13th and 14th pensions, 13th and 14th wages. Arrangements for Collective Work Agreements and repealing anti-territorial provisions’. Mr Emmanoulidis has the floor and Mr Georgiodas follows. Mr. Emmanuelides, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u717	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are very well acquainted in this Chamber. The good news is that society knows us better. However, I would very soon like to try 'know us better', that is to say, to get to know each other better. Ladies and gentlemen, you are sheding crocodile tears for self-government, which you have literally strangled in a series of actions and decisions within the Memorandum frameworks. It is not possible for people who have been critically harming the operation of government I and II to become settlers and honorers. I am referring in particular to the case of Mr Mitsotakis, when, by decisions that were in parallel, he actually created a Social Opportunities for people who served public and self-government through collective decisions that threw people to the margin when he himself has three generations from the public. I refer to the case of Mr Loverdou and Mr Venizelos from PASOK. In a public prosecutor's style, as Cassandras both, they see and anticipate the perfect death of Greece because of the deadlies that SYRIZA - ANEL has created, as you say, the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence. Mr Loverdos and Mr Venizelos, you have brought it to ruin in a number of twenty-seven acts of legislation, which have unfortunately been drafted on a dictatorial basis - and we should particularly note that - in dictating creditors, because this is how his master's voice was defined. But I mean, in the end, as many horns as you can make as much time from this Step as you get multiple, you do it because you know the game is over for you. The political game for you is over, and we don't say it, the people say it. And that is why I see you coming to an extreme predicament of dangers and acting as bearers of a European system, unfortunately, by a party that would still have castings of at least an unrightful speech and behaviour, you have completely lost it. As for the river, that's where it's clear. They showed us their ideological bed. She's extremely neoliberal, she's out of reality, another role they wanted to play and elsewhere they go. As far as the legislative act is concerned, I would refer only to a word by Aristotle: 'Above all, not at all.' In this sense, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the painful task for us has been based - because we have been diagnosed with democratic principles in years, we are fighting for them - to try to serve a greater need, and that is the need to save the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u718	Thank you, Mr. Emmanuelides. Mr Georgantas has the floor, and then Mr Koutsoukos immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u719	Thank you, Madam President. Today is a very bad day for Parliament. And it is not a very bad day, because we have the ratification of an act of legislation. Indeed, we have had sanctions before. Unfortunately, it is a direct and rapid way of legislating. It is not a bad day because the current government, which until yesterday condemned it, brings this act of legislation. It's not bad, it's just because it's got the element of retrospectiveness and the government's originals on it. It's not bad, black, I'd say, day, because for the first time we have a piece of legislation, which touches the core of the automobile in relation to the municipalities and the universities. The bad news is the contents of the legislative act. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to legislate to pay next month's wages and pensions by internal lending. The content of the legislative act is what should worry us all. I do not think Parliament has ever come to a similar position. I shall therefore agree with Mr Lafazani. Yes, that is a different act of legislation. It is an act of legislation that comes in so that the money can be collected, which is necessary to enable wages and pensions to be paid. Politics is judged on the result. Not on desires, not on intentions. After three months of governance, the government is today forced to bring this act of legislative content, which gives it compulsory to a process which it earlier legislated as optional and I will refer to it. Do you know what worrying is? Even though we're at this point, we still don't have a picture of the reality. We still don't have knowledge of the whole picture. We still have no picture and information about what the proposals we have made to our partners are, what their answers are, where we are close, where we are far away, how close or far the convening and agreement are. And that's the worst of everyone. Mr Lafazanis' argument that this is how we earn trading time, I think it is a total waste of time and you all understand it. This way we show out what our limits are, which are now over. But there is something different about this act of legislation. It is the first action, the first legislative initiative by the government, which is welcomed by the partners. Do you know why he's applauded? They asked her before. It was also requested by the previous government to gather all the reserves into an account. Then the government did not accept this wish of our partners and became the Observatory for the municipalities and we all know it. But today, with this action, the partners are coming to declare their agreement, to declare that it is a positive action. That's worrying. But the most disturbing of all is what I said before, that they are not yet telling the truth. On 17 March there was an amendment to a specific law. We voted for him here all of us. This law enabled legal persons under public law to deposit and invest their money in the Bank of Greece on a voluntary basis and to invest in repos. There was that possibility. Why should today's legislative act, which, for the purposes of the government, is compulsory, also be of a retroactive character? Why would he have a retroactive character too? Who will in the previous period blame anyone from 17 March onwards, while having the option of this optional option, did not? Why would anyone blame any district minister or mayor from 17 March until today have invested optionally - those who had the right - in repos? Do you know why retroactiveness is coming? Because there is a second paragraph in this law, adopted on 17 March, which refers to the situation where the State cannot fulfil its obligations under the bond repo. In order to be able to rebuild these bonds on voluntary basis, those who enter this procedure are covered by the unacceptable fact that the public cannot rebuild them, we are now coming with the compulsory nature of this act of legislation and we are covering them. There's something else. It was heard in connection with the Scientific Committee of Parliament that it allegedly makes no comment negative on constitutionality in view of this regulation. Sure. And you know why? Because in practice, as it comes, the whole truth is not mentioned, it is not mentioned. Can I read you the contents of the law? The act we are currently dominating reads: "Definition of the Act of Legislation of 20 April 2015 entitled "Additional regulation for the transfer of cash to be invested in the Bank of Greece". It does not say ‘to meet the needs of the public’. They're not telling the truth. It says 'to be invested'. Today we are dominating an act of legislation of an urgent nature, so that we can lead some to invest. It comes as an investment and not all of the elements that are hidden in relation to this particular choice of the government. You know in politics, as I said, when starting, intentions and expectations are not judged and are not evaluated at the end. The results shall be evaluated. But there's also a catalytic alert to anyone who handled the country's fates. This is the consequence of projects and reasons, and in this assessment of the consistency of speeches and projects to date I think that anyone standing up against this government sees that to the supreme extent it is a negative assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u720	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. PASOK Parliamentary spokesman Giannis Koutsoukos has the floor. Mr Kutsukouko, you have the floor for five minutes, because the speech by the President of your parliamentary group has been preceded.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u721	Madam President, thank you. I imagine that when he was a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Lafazanis, with the coups he said every three minutes and a little while, if the Bureau would ask him to respond to a minister's request to precede some colleagues, he would also speak of a parliamentary coup. Anyway, it's time to shoot. Ladies and gentlemen, we must explain why the government has chosen today through its top ministers, Mr Voutsi and Mr Lafazani, to seek an insulting way for this House and for the internally elected enemies beyond the outside world, with whom he is bailing every three and a little while without, of course, a result, as I will say. And I'm not talking about the juveniles that Mr. Voutiss said. I am referring both to the substance of his arguments and to what Mr Lafazanis has earlier developed. It is clear that the government has chosen this method of exacerbation and polarization to avoid telling the Greek people and especially the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group the truth and reality, which is where the country is, what difficulties it faces and what decisions it will take if the government - even at the last minute - responds to what is the great desire of the Greek people, to keep Greece up and up in the euro. Ladies and gentlemen, three months after the election there is obviously the deadlock created by government policy at all levels. No citizen today can claim that the country is better than that received by the government. Cash bankruptcy is confessed. Mr Mardas confessed to it, and obviously there is a more overall bankruptcy if we do not take serious decisions in the next few years. Is that our fault? Is that the opposition? Is it the people? Or is it because the government lost a month in translation until the decision of 20 February, with Mr Varoufakis giving interviews where there was radio and television, and he finally committed himself on 20 February. Today who blames? It accuses our partners, namely those with whom it agreed on 20 February, and with whom it again agreed on 20 March on the content of the agreement because it requires the government to be consistent with its commitments. Apart from the fact that the government did not bring this agreement to Parliament to discuss it, in addition to the fact that Mr Varoufakis signed it, without any authorisation, the extension of the main financial agreement, namely the memorandum, and hides it from the majority Members, in addition to the fact that he returned the 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund. So we've been in the void all this time. The e-mails by Mr Varoufakis with the reforms that the government has undertaken to present to our partners and lenders - institutions now say them - go and come. Of course, they're close to picking us up. I am indeed ashamed if the designations that Mr Varoufakis has heard today are true. Why, you know something, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because I know your social origins and your sensitivities. As soon as this work is done, Mr. Varoufakis will take descents to give lectures and you and we will be here and boil in our junk! I'm not ashamed of Mr. Varoufakis. I am ashamed of the government of our country, if that's true. Because we believe that we are legally and democratically represented by the government of the country. I say, therefore, that in this impasse that the government has led to things - and, it seems, it will be difficult for the next period, because it has to present the full package of reforms - it is trying to look for those with whom it has agreed, and those with which it has agreed, are telling the truth and the reality within it. What else do we say? We're saying we gave you support on January 25th. We told you: 'Do the National Negotiations Committee'. We sent a letter - Mr Venizelos - to the leaders of the socialist parties in Europe, to those who did not support us and who, when we said 'take a stand against blackmailing our partners and support the red lines we put', you said 'elections' to take responsibility for governance. You took it and you come today and you ask for the change. And we say again to you: "Get the framework of the negotiation in the House to discuss it and give you support instead of bailing against us and our partners, without any results." Now, the other enemy discovered by the government is the movements. SYRIZA's statute and its planning positions say it's a party of movements. And he's messing with self-government. So he's screwing with the people he's been supporting. He went to municipal councils and declared his support for the decisions of municipal councils that did not accept the acts of transfers, redundancies and so on. Mr. Lafazanis and his likes were on the streets every day with all of them, with the WTO - OTA etc. Those today SYRIZA complains they've started insurgent. We've got obidial transformations, obviously because of power. Mr Lafazan and colleagues of SYRIZA, Article 102 of the Constitution, which says about the economic and administrative autonomy of self-government, have you read it? What do you think? Do you think you're going back to us at the time when self-government was a mayor, long-handed state? Is that the policy with which you are addressing the movements, the people, the movements of citizens? Article 16 of the Constitution, which refers to the autonomy of the HEIs, does not you know? Didn't you hear the dean of the Polytechnic University of Crete? Is he, too? He was now remembered to start an insurgent. Weren't you with them all the time we've been resisting the mobility of staff at the IEO and the reduction of their staff? How come from one day to the next while you were with them, now you're across the street and they're holding you up against you and they've started rebellious? Ladies and gentlemen, we have imposed the debate on the institutions. The government wanted to pass the PND through the urgency procedure. And this debate was useful. We agreed to hold the debate today because the government told us that it is serving a national objective and that we accepted it. We do not accept, however, that you should abdicate us that we are a liar and a fifth column. We cannot accept that. If you mean that, we return it. Look, ladies and gentlemen. Who celebrated with a statement, because the government issued the act of legislation? Brussels, because it was a Brussels check. You think you're resisting today? One request by the lenders, which we had not adopted, brought in and vote on by legislative act. The argument that we were bringing legislative action to legalise and that is not right. For your people have chosen you to do other than those you have denounced. Finally, Madam President - so that I do not abuse time - I tell you that we will not bite in the provocations. We will be here in the House as long as this House exists. Because we do not believe that you do not have a people's mandate to deal with the problems. We do not accept the threats to the extraordinary elections. These are threats to what's going on in the balcony and threatening to kill himself. We'll tell you the truth about the lies you were talking about and the election and the post-elections. And you will be forced, gentlemen, to tell your MPs the truth and drink the glass to the bottom. Because the country needs decisions. And you'll have to make these decisions so the country doesn't go to the rocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u722	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-five students and students and four teachers from the Municipal School of New Mylopotamos Pellas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Rachel McCree has the floor. It will be followed by Mr Kikilias, who will not exhaust - as he has told me - the time that he is entitled to - because there is a very serious reason. You have the floor, Mrs. Macrie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u723	Thank you, Madam President. Today, the government's financial staff and the Prime Minister are fighting a difficult battle for an interim agreement which will enable the country's financial obligations to be served in a decent manner without interference. This agreement will be the first to ensure hope, without the obliterity and willowness of the past, without hitting the head with newspapers and without e-mails dictating bills. This agreement will be the first victory in the undeclared economic war that our country has been accepting for five years. In the context of this war, the Greek people have made sacrifices, they have suffered cutbacks, they have seen their property sold instead of a lentil plate, they have faced unemployment, impoverishment and recession. We must tell this people the truth. The truth is that, under the present rules, operators ensure a more efficient placement of their cash, since the interest rates of commercial banks do not exceed 1%, while the return on the Bank of Greece amounts to 2.5%. Let us stress, at the same time, that, on the government's legislative initiative, the funds of the institutions are fully secured, with the right to compensation from the public. It will be the case, that is, in many other countries of the European Union. After all, this regulation refers to bodies which are financed by the State budget and enable the State to borrow up to 15 days, which are not required by the institutions. The Opposition tells us we're hitting local government. Well, no! We don't hurt anyone. On the contrary, we offer interest rates that more than double the yield of the municipalities' available resources. It is at least tragic that all those who were silenced when the New Democracy and PASOK coup d'état cut 66% of the CFP, erected today with sues and acts of stunning. They emerge when there is no cutback, while when they were reduced by more than half the money they were not talking at all or had a fat reaction. Even more tragic is the fact that many of them, in the behaviour of the "good son", who adopts and enhances the reactions of the "mas" of the New Democracy, have been elected as independent. Of course, claims for higher returns on cash available to commercial banks cannot be serious, as banks offer a rate of 1%. A higher interest rate is the forward deposits, where there is no possibility of withdrawing and the interest rate does not reach more than 2.5% unless the money is too much or personal relationships with the bank's players. So every Greek that New Democracy cut off his wages, pensions or left him on the road is natural to wonder why a municipality that has very high reserves, which it does not need and has placed in forward deposits, should not carry them without any chance of losing them. Is that a sacrifice? Let's get serious. Neither the operation of the municipality nor its money is affected. On the contrary, they do better than that. We understand, of course, that the New Democracy, which has issued dozens of legislative acts, wants to create impressions in order to find a deferred alibi for the arrangements that favoured only the few, and which were also a prime minister. We understand that it bothers you to create the security differences in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the state and to strengthen the country's negotiating position. We do not, however, understand how it is possible for the state to borrow short-term pensions and react. In other words, tell us to get the retired person to second degree and, first, the municipality's ability to change the tiles on the sidewalks! We do not understand how you are putting the immediate repayment of any contractor rather than the lives of many. You are still telling us that it is annoying to legislate by means of legislative acts. We don't like it either, be sure! Nevertheless, if there are urgent needs for many, we will use every constitutional instrument to cover them. Do not judge yourself, you who used the legislative acts to close the ERT, so that private channels can be fruited instead of EUR 18 million of an objective infrastructure worth EUR 715 million. So at the hanger's house, don't talk about rope! If we were to follow your examples, we would have left the act of legislation for three months, so that the legal consequences would apply, and then, once the negotiation had been completed, we would have voted against it to stop it. However, it is understood that such practices are not accepted, because we simply do not need such tricks. Because we tell the citizens the truth. For such tricks you need, such as the trick that the entire Greek people attended at the beginning of the meeting, where a well-deserved theatrical performance, whose majority of the theatres came, played for the 14: 00 and came. Some did not lose their temper and were served in personal attacks and sex remarks, such as what I received from Mr. Mitsotakis. I am sorry that the poverty of Mr Mitsotakis' arguments has led him to the downfall of the insults on personal choices. I would like to reply to him that explanations should be given, especially when the six hundred calls on Mr Christoforikos's phone system concerned him and his relatives. He should provide explanations, because the mayor of Palaios Faliro and his father's baptized, has made available EUR 300,280 without VAT from resources managed by his municipality to digitize the archive of Constantine Mitsotakis, based in another municipality directly entrusted to a company involved in a scandal in armaments. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr ALEXIOS MITROPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] For the truth, I tabled the question I tabled on 24-7-2014. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Rachel Makri, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Until you respond, then, you can continue the catechide, continue both the mud and the vulgarity. They're not throwing us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u724	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. Mr. Kikilis has the floor for a short time. Is that right, Mr. Kikilia?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u725	I resign the speech of five minutes in order to speak only for one minute, to answer. Minister, I beg your pardon very much, but the government, using the method of legislative acts, seeks to replace the Constitution and to smuggle the House. Don't look at me. I didn't say that. Alexis Tsipras said it on June 11, 2013. I'm not saying it. Manolis Glezos says it on November 19, 2013. I'm not saying it. Mrs Konstantopoulou says that legislative acts will not be accepted, because this House will apply the principles of good legislature. He even called on the President of the Republic not to sign legislative acts. I imagine he will tell Mr Pavlopoulou, the current President of the Republic. Excuse me very much, Minister, you have to tell us if you will surprise us with other things. Is there another secret agenda? Is there anything else we need to know? We don't want to be surprised. If you want, say it now. I beg your pardon, Mr Lafazani, we did not promote the negotiation of the Government. The Minister came out on the channels this morning, he admitted that there is a deficit of 400 million and that therefore wages and pensions cannot be paid, speaking from home, and after his office he undone it and said there is a surplus of 2 billion euros. It could be Houdini the Minister or Houdini becoming Minister. In any case, we need to know. Minister, Mr Voutsi, with all due respect, because I stood up and answered you this morning, and unfortunately we were both betrayed by the microphone, to say that it does not appear from what you said that what you really want is the understanding and support that you did not offer as an opposition to the conflict in order to implement its own programme. Now you're here to implement your own program. Nevertheless, we, which have nothing to do with colleagues, nothing at all, Minister, offer our sympathy and support for the country. That is why we ask you to bring to Parliament the real negotiation that is taking place, to see where we can agree and save the country, and not to take it or take it, if you like, to the rocks. This is the sincere cooperation, and this is the sincere aid hand that we are putting forward, Minister, and not the words you said about us this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u726	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. At 23.00 we will be adjourned for the roll-call vote. We will therefore be speeding up with speakers from the list. We may need to limit further, shorten the time, to speak as many as possible, but you will know that at 23.00" we will interrupt for the nominal. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u727	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in particular about local government, as tomorrow the Prime Minister of the country will see the associations of regional and mayors and the CEDEFOP conference will also take place, where we will also be speaking. So I want to openly, as I did yesterday in committee, to say my opinion, because this week was indeed a week of intense debate with the mayors, with the regional and different views within these bodies. The Minister responsible, Mr Mardas, has been and discussed with them for hours since the first moment and has given an explanation. It has also been done in our committee. There have been questions, we have given explanations, issues have been clarified. We are in a constant dialogue, but in these days something has been done that I write it down. On behalf of the majority in these two bodies, a frontal policy has been chosen, involving other parties, political confrontation, political conflict with the government, with obvious impressions, with rather impressive attitudes, drawing to the extremes of all the dangers and trying to shape a social and political bloc against the government. Although explanations on how to manage money were given at the very first moment and that there would be no shortage of any kind, and indeed of issues and programmes and even development efforts, in return services etc. - on a scale is the truth, that's where I can't put everyone inside, to God! - through the noble effort, assistance and assistance of the media, which are obviously militant either anyway in a conflict policy with the current government, a climate of intransigence has been created to our people. In other words, at the same time that they received from the most official lips of clarifications with numbers, commitments on the issues they raised, in a thousand ways they leaked or presented a picture, in front of which only one could really scare someone. For example, children will stop going to nurseries, there will be no transport, stop social programs, end allowances, water may start cutting, etc. Then why are we having this conversation and seriously? Is this a conversation going on in the ears? I now come to remember this because everything is important. I am the best in the mood as Minister of the Interior and allow me to speak to the native - I have done it so far, and everyone knows it, all the parties, all the parties and all their representatives - within the framework given for the time to solve many problems. Even in the bill that comes next week, you will see things that have been requested for years and which we will be able to promote. However, we have to think that this political mood and pre-disposition which exists for all sciences should be changed, because it is not worth the mayors and regional leaders, who have just been elected and who have five-year terms before them, to make their advantage a disadvantage. I want to say it from this Step before I tell them. They have an advantage because they really are new. Others have received good, other bad things. Others continue to give birth. They have a full term before them to make a program, to make an effort, to play a role. Their term of office is not over at this time, to say they are hostage commitments of regular choices, syndicate perceptions. They have this possibility, as well as - and I have said before - it is the last level, not theoretically, based on the principle of subsidiarity, proximity, etc., but on the substance it is the last level, the last network of social solidarity close to the world, which happens to him what is happening to him. You remember what anthems we made out of here when we discussed the humanitarian crisis and the possibility, in contact with the forces that so many years have voluntarily created these solidarity structures, that municipalities play a special role in the coming years. They are, therefore, unfair to themselves and to each other, when they are engaged in a political conflict to weaken the current government, in view of the very difficult situation in which the country is situated, and the negotiation that the current government is conducting. I was at the Attica Regional Council in the difficult years, with Mr Mitarakis, in the crisis -2010, 2011 and 2012 - until I became a MP. I know very well. Yesterday he shared us with the committee - I say this, if I may take the interest of any of my colleagues - a whole documentary from the Committee of Regions and from the Committee of the Regions with decisions to show us that in the past there was a contrast, a resistance to the 'ultra - memorandum' years, from the leaderships of these bodies. These are decisions taken during all the critical periods: redundancies, in the medium term, 60% -65% reductions, a reduction in the Public Investment Programme and others. If any of you bothered me - I happened to know them because I was on the regional council yesterday, but I confirmed them from the text which we shared - and saw these decisions, it would see that 95%, unfortunately, was a full or indirect plea in the Memorandum policies. I repeat, the texts that have been shared yesterday! In these there were several pretexts alternatives of style: "Do not get fired or get out of this structure. Let them come out of the decentralised administrations, which must be abolished. Let us make the storage of available and redundancies there, or 'don't tell us what to cut off, which you tell us to cut down terrible sums. Let us just cut off." It's written. The Economic Commission knows that. "Let us on our own arrange where to reduce costs," and so on. In the medium term, I voted against it. I have been proposed on behalf of the regional party in Attica, along with other forces, against the medium-term that we had been brought to us. They had fully accepted it, with the funds it had for self-government. I am very sorry to talk about this, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know how much they've been reduced? I can't do anything in this space. It is very difficult, as is the mayors and districters. It's hard. The CAP and the Public Investment Programme, Mr Metarakis, have been reduced by 60% to 65%. It was EUR 860 million in 2010 for local government structures and is 160 million. Go and do work! Go and do a job! That's a situation. I'm bowing to the bearmen's mood! I am retarded to the aggression of the regional authorities who want to defend themselves against the populace which has been invaded in the country! A little serious! I said yesterday - and I was responding yesterday - that a substantial dialogue is taking place - with limited responsibility in the face of this situation. Those who were in the previous committee, from all the parties, from the Ministry of Interior, Justice, Public Order and others, remember very well that from that Senate Hall at least SYRIZA had left - I do not remember exactly, but perhaps other forces - when in front of the storm that came to self-government at 60% minus - I say it for you who are younger, not individually but as a party - there was an extraordinary meeting in the House with the bodies, as we had yesterday. For 60% and 65%. Where's he going? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] A little more time, Mr President. And then the CEDEFOP came forward. He doesn't have the same president as now. I recognize it. To God, there is no collective responsibility for the administrations. We are, however, talking about institutions and structures that must shape a collective memory and their quest for action and progress. So the administration of the CEDEFOP had come and given us a hand to work out - to the exiles, about, perhaps all the parties about what the government was bringing, what it cut, the umbilical cord, had caught the neck of self-government, leaving it unreservedly, resources - a document - is at your disposal - with the excellent title: "The contribution of local government and its institutions to overcoming the crisis of the country". That's it. It was not the resistance, what we will do, and so on, but how all together we will find these norms that put us outside or enter together with the Greek governments, to serve them. That's why we're going to talk about a lot of other things. We will first discuss with them on the clientele system, which, in cooperation with political leaders in previous years, had been set up and continued to work in crisis situations in these areas, for the Observatorys, for the balance sheets, for the budgets, for the way in which budget issues were resolved. I have no other way. I have said so in the previous debate, colleagues. That's the way anyone can hear it right away. There is no way what we are actually saying in their arguments of getting out. It's very clear. We know their reasons. We don't have to worry about that. But I said a lot of things today. We'll say more tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. We are not opening a dossier to local government, and even then a celebration, because we were in these struggles of the people at a time when it went through both the road and the municipalities, everywhere and on every issue that arose. However, we will not leave this climate of harsh frontal political confrontation at a very difficult time when the government is, in fact, being suffocating to give in to unacceptable demands from the partners - lenders. And we will not let this front form against the SYRIZA Government - ANEL two and a half months after we have taken over. Anyone who wants or fantasizes that this government will be parentheses and above all the people's attempt to raise their heads will be parentheses and that we will be back in a way with our heads down, where then municipalities, regions, universities, research centres that you have broken up and closed up, that hundreds of thousands of young people will leave as migrants abroad and our country will be truly bankrupt not only economically, but also culturally and morally, misguided! The people gave their answer, and if necessary they'll give it back! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u728	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been given a parliamentary amendment. When the Minister comes, we'll beg him to tell us if he accepts it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u729	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u730	The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Mr. Wireless, please very much. I have given the floor to Mr. Karathanasopoulos! Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u731	Minister, easy opponent you choose in controversy. You are, of course, choosing the previous government and the parties that supported it and the mayors, who have also put back on the previous decisions, the anti-grassroots, to be implemented, but also today they are showing all the good will to put into practice the issue that is actually contained in the legislative act. That's to show what? That you're different from the previous government? You claim that this is an exceptional measure. But an emergency measure is trying to deal with it with a lasting act. There is no time limit for this act of legislation, it has lasting duration. So from this point of view these questions, which we put as a JRC, have become unanswered. Question number one. Was it a demand for the Troika to gather the cash available to the general government and local and regional authorities in a special account with the Bank of Greece and, indeed, not currently, but from the past? Question two, Minister. Since your setting is so good, why don't you include them listed on the Stock Exchange and exclude them? Because there are, of course, the private capital, the various hedge funds that they have placed and participated in the share capital, for example PPC. And you know very well that such action would be a matter for them and would be a massive part of the capital. So a pit has the pit for the whole process you are following. On the substance - and the Minister, Mr Mardas, too, admitted it - what are you doing? You're making an internal loan. You make an internal loan not to pay salaries and pensions. We told you before. The same argument was used by the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. We do the memorandum, we sign the loan contracts, we build in the medium term, we do legislative acts so that we can pay salaries and pensions. On the basis of the statement by the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, what you want to ensure today, however, is how you will pay for the two-month period - on the basis of the statement by the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis - State debt. In other words, how it will be served on the substance of the inter-institutional debt. That is the essence of the matter. That's why you're moving on to that inner loan. Thirdly, Mr Minister, which is the most essential in our opinion. We, as a JRC, have not been destroyed by this act of legislation. You said that you had no other way, because if there was a bill, you would bring it as an amendment. Indeed, Minister, in the previous legislative act, which contained the scandalous arrangements for tax and customs infringements, which you are giving them the fines - and do not involve fines for workers, for pensioners, for professionals, but for monopolistic groups - why did you not follow the same practice? Because the 'TAXIS' arrangement opened on 17 April last Friday, so if you had brought it and had not been voted on, they would not be able to join it. You left it over a week since 17 April, in order to be able to join as many as possible, to be able to make their papers of such kind monopolistic business groups, which you are giving them fines from tax and customs violations, at the same time as you say in the world, "pay your last penny". The last issue, Minister: through this process, do you not open the way to further lowering state funding and strict control by the State, if the expenditure that the municipality, hospital or university wants to make, is the existing expenditure? So I'll check it out and finance it. Because in this way you are opening the way for returnability to be generalised. And with the exception of the Minister, that the fees will not include them, that is exactly the way forward. Close the eye on the mayors, "send even more reward fees, load more people with rabbles, because from the state you won't have to take if you want to have services". And as this environment is shaped, you know very well that the specific activities of the mayors will be reduced even further, the activities of the universities and hospitals will be reduced even further, since there is no logic of reciprocity, or such activities and functions will be granted to the private capital by means of partnerships and concessions. So that's the plan you have. And don't hide behind your finger. Because the negotiation, which you are negotiating, does not make it so as to relieve the people. The red line, Mr Minister, is to relieve the people, to return all the losses they had and to be able to live on their needs. This means that in this way I am in conflict, in breach of capital, with the European Union's policy and strategy of lenders. And you don't have that kind of red line. Your red line is the interests of capital, and that is why BSE supports you suddenly in your negotiation. Everything else is a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u732	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mrs. Kafantari has the floor for five minutes. The Minister, whenever he is ready, will say whether he accepts the parliamentary amendment. To be informed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u733	How will he accept? It can't be done. Mr President, may I speak on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u734	Here you go, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u735	Mr President, it is an amendment which entails budgetary costs. It is not allowed to come from the House. It is an amendment that has budgetary costs and is not accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office. Impossibly filed. It is a long-term amendment, the last one. And it is an amendment to ratification, which cannot be accepted either. The amendment cannot therefore be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u736	This contradicts what you have said all day about the contents and nature of the act of legislation. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u737	Thank you, Mr President. It is a difficult and decisive phase that we are currently working on as a country, since we have for the first time a government that is actually and really negotiating for the interests of this sad Greek people, from the memorandum policies that have been implemented in previous years. There is moderate optimism in order to reach a fair compromise. The first time this country has to borrow since August. We pay, in essence, our obligations without borrowing, outside this deadlock model and logic of 'l borrow to repay debts'. Yes, Mr President, and honourable Members, this really is another model, I would say, when the memorials are in the past, no wages and pensions, insurance and supplementary pensions have been reduced even though all that was inside Mr Samaras' specific mail. I am not saying 'Hardouvelis', I am saying Mr Samaras's e-mail. In fact, this government gradually implements its election announcements and what the Prime Minister today announced in Thessaloniki. A number of laws have been passed. The humanitarian crisis law, the 100 doses, the labour issues will come in May, where collective agreements will be restored, the collective redundancies will be prevented and so many others included in Mr Samaras' mail, as I said, and of course a number of other issues. You know, gentlemen, at the moment the government is committed by the Greek people to the red lines that the Greek people have put in and made a genuine titanic effort to get the country out of the catechide and the situation in which your memorial policies have brought it to you. Because Mr Venizelos spoke earlier on about geopolitical issues, the question of pipelines, energy etc., I would like to say that, yes, this government really applies for the first time a multi-dimensional foreign policy with dignity, a parity to everyone, for the benefit of the people and our country. As far as the legislative act is concerned, which, as we know, has been discussed on the basis of the procedures, in two Finance Committees. We have heard the bodies that have come and said their views. And tomorrow, as you know, the Prime Minister himself will have a meeting with both the regions and with the municipalities and will hear their views again in this particular case. I would therefore like to say that at the meetings of the Finance Committees we heard the Bank of Greece's representative, who gave clear clarification of technical answers to the municipalities about the reservations they have about this kind of short-term lending, a process which, if you like, is not new. Legislation has been in place since 1990. And, of course, we know that the fees are excluded, which are a particular benefit to self-government as well. I would mention, ladies and gentlemen, the hypothetical example, which I believe we all despise, our country would go to the rocks. Would there be self-government? Would there be structures of the state in such a case? Is there going to be plays? As the spokesman of the New Democracy said in her suggestion, they would stop the works in the municipalities, thus contributing to terrorism and dangers. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation and the tension that we experienced this morning is mainly due to the opposition. In particular, the main cause is the embarrassment, because the Greek Government has a serious chance of reaching an interim agreement because it is negotiating. You have accused us today of lack of knowledge, seriousness, you have said that we have no policy. We saw your policies and your knowledge in what state they brought the Greek people. There has been paradoxical words, the notion of patriotism, an interpretation which everyone gives according to his ideology. You're not worse than us. You're just extreme neoliberals. Patriotary duty today, what is it? Put back on the government elected by the people and attempting to negotiate for the Greek people. Just tell the Greek people the truth. We must not contribute to the terrorism and the panic climate of foreign lenders and domestic 'pads'. We must not use the arguments of lenders who want to take us to the critical moment. Do not put micro-policy and micro-political benefits above the national interest. The small-party benefit is for you, gentlemen of Officer Response, investing in failure to prove that or the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will fall, or whatever we are all the same. Neither will the first be done, nor are we all the same. I shall say a few words, Mr President, about local government. The Minister clearly explained many things in his report this morning and I will not be placed in it. But I believe that local government will contribute to these explosive needs of our country. An example is the responsible attitude of the Attica Region. I am presenting yesterday's resolution to the Attica Region for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charula Kafantaris, presents for the minutes this resolution, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, local government must not forget the losses suffered by 60% of the memoranda by means of a legislative act whereby the former co-government established the Finance Observatory. Let it not resist heroicly against the homeland, the local government, the homeland, which gave it loan and which today made adjustments for a hundred instalments for its debts. As far as universities are concerned, I would say that they should not forget the PSI, like a number of other public bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u738	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u739	In conclusion, I will say a word: Local government, in fact, is self-evident economic, budgetary and administrative, it is an institution based on democracy and collectiveness. It is a key factor in the national development effort at all levels, an effort made by the government on behalf of the Greek people and with the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u740	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. New Democracy MP Mr Kefaliannis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u741	Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow three months of governing SYRIZA - ANEL and we have really seen it all in Parliament. After 50 days of the first bill to be discussed, we have just seen in the first bill no longer enough amendments, and you were accusing us of that when you were in opposition, the second bill just came in the form of urgency, and today we are voting on a legislative act. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly wonder what use those of us who hoped for a change of direction, at a turn in the government's course towards realism, are now making calls. To make my own self-criticism first, I hoped there was a part of SYRIZA with elected opinions, feeling and feeling of objective restrictions and being able to properly assess the country's potential, a part that wants to achieve an honest compromise, but is supposed not to leave him the leftist past and present 4%. I'm afraid it's a big mistake. The SYRIZA's course so far shows that he is so uneven and unirreversible, that power dismantles him more than unite him. The more the day-to-day despair of uncertainty and the emerging deadlock, the clearer it becomes that the government neither knows nor wants to solve the problems it has accumulated. Instead of the end of the austerity he has been employed, we are living the economic suffocation. Instead of defending wages, redundancies are increasing in the private sector and workers are being paid more and more to them. Instead of rescuing pensions, the fund reserves and future pensions are depleted. Instead of condemning the old client state, we are reliving the party's attack on it. Just take a look at the government's Secretary-General and see all the failed candidates of SYRIZA and ANEL. Instead of a new tax system, we are living "saving and saving". Instead, of the new national self-awareness, the majority of the SYRIZA and ANEL will judge her political opponents in the allegedly examinating the Memorandum as it regularly leads us to a new memorandum. The most recent incident in this self-destructive country is the act of legislation that we are debating today. I will not dwell on the unbearable hypocrisy contained in every word in its defence from SYRIZA's government officials and fellow Members, nor on the issues of unconstitutionality my colleagues have already raised. I will focus on the lack of sign language content that characterises this act of legislation. There is, in fact, every point in the move to transfer and, in fact, to commit the cash resources of the general government to the Bank of Greece at a time when you are supposed to negotiate the country's financial needs. He was indeed asked by the Minister of Interior at the last meeting because we blame him and said that he was not supposed to be bend the head in the new memoranda. You do not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that with your moves you undermine whatever negotiation takes place and lead the country mathematically to new memorials. You don't understand that you're sending messages to the other side of the table, that the money any minute is over. You do not realize that with your moves, the one who actually earns time is our partners, who hope to get more and more. You're talking red lines to insurance, labour, tax. Let us forget for a moment the memorials, that we are on the verge of bankruptcy, coup rhetoric and that we are at war. I would like you to tell me this: can we in 2017 pay as a society EUR 30 billion a year in pensions, no matter how much our GDP is? Can we bring back the sinful past and the rule of arbitration and so-called sectoral autonomy in the negotiations on employment pay? Can you tell us a specific proposal after three months to create jobs? It's obvious you don't have any answers. If you had, you'd have filed them in the public debate, in the House, in our partners. Ladies and gentlemen, one must make a very great effort to understand whether or not this government is negotiating. In negotiation, you're giving something, you're getting something. We did not actually give or take. We're staying still. And just this immorality is the greatest materialistic measure taken by this government. Day after day we lead to social and economic achievements. The only proposal is to create a political achievement. It's a referendum. He heard about elections too. The question is exactly what you want to ask the citizens. Obviously whether or not they will accept your red lines or what the lenders ask you to do. Obviously you will support your own red lines. But then why does the referendum need to be referendumd? If citizens ask again to find them with the lenders, what are you going to do? Obviously you can't stand for one minute. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, neither the elections nor the referendum will take you out of the deadlock in which you have led the country. Your problem is, from a small party looking for identity in alternative globalisation and in the fixed flirt with the anti-powered space, you must be transformed into a responsible force that defensives the needs of Greek society and the demands of times. You have already managed to create a public security problem, a future genuine humanitarian crisis with victims of immigrants and a new deterioration in the centre of large cities. The party, supposed to be defending labour interests and having non-violent contact with the labour layers outside the public, resorts to incredible slanders against miners in Skouria, one of the few industrial labour groups that is desperately mobilised to defend its work. A party that ridicules its own government's humanitarian crisis priorities, sharing million-dollar advances for armaments, while bringing an act of legislative content to commit all general government's funds. We live a surreal tragedy in which no eagle, wise, can consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u742	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Member of the PASOK, followed by Alexandros Triantafyllidis and Mavroudis Vorides. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u743	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the government until yesterday was fighting to respect the constitution. The SYRIZA MPs came to this Chamber and accused the previous government of co-operation for coup d'état. In November 2011, the current Prime Minister said: “They are moving by legislative act as if the country were in a state of war and in a siege of siege.” Today, what is the truth? Have we been bankrupt, as the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative confessed, because if the cash available to the Bank of Greece is not transferred, will they not have to pay wages and pensions on 30 April, or are we optimistic, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, because we will reach an agreement with the partners? You said the antipopulation: "Working inspiration the legislative acts. I have humiliated them to legislate by legislative acts. Legislative acts shatter democracy'. Now? Now they become a tool for the government to cover up its big mistakes and tragic omissions of the four years of opposition and three critical months of dangerous governance. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman spoke about ensuring the public's rights and obligations. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, the government has taken over OPEKEPE's reserves. The aim is now to put the contributions of the ELGA farmers. In Easter for the first time, the payments of the ESDP were paid from ELGA's resources and not from the budget. Today the government wants ELGA to break the forward deposits, where 120 million are in order to be transferred to the Bank of Greece as well. And I ask you, what will happen in May? What is the planned payment of producers for the 2014 losses? How will the interests of farmers be safeguarded? What will be the next financing move for the government? Ladies and gentlemen, the special speaker of the PASOK Andreas Lovers described in detail the reasons for making the act of anti-constitutional legislation unconstitutional. The Athens Bar Association has also made relevant points. I give outlines: Firstly, the extremely urgent unforeseen need must be mentioned in a concrete way. Of course, there is nothing specific about the body of the act. Secondly, the Government cannot put a constitutional wrapping in the raid on the resources of the self-governed legal persons, such as the first and second grades, on the HEIs and TEIs. Of course, they offend their financial selfishness and the government says: "Troughly, it is an act of foresight". But if that's possible! We are asked by a democratic government to violate the Constitution on a temporary basis. Third, legacy. How can funds from private instruments and sources be used to pay for a specific purpose and to fill it? The legislative act will cause many problems by providing only temporary solutions. Apart from the fact that this act suffers from unconstitutionalism, the Government guarantees that this transfer of funds, which is done without conditions and conditions, will not bring fines and charges from Europe, because for some of these bodies there are various limitations that the members of their administrations are called upon to violate. So what are you going to do in this case? Ladies and gentlemen, first and second degree self-government has a responsible, institutional and national attitude. They want to support - and they will support it, as they said yesterday in the committee - the state, but they want to ensure and ensure the smooth functioning of their services, to ensure their financial and administrative self-sufficiency. It is not possible at such a critical moment where municipalities and regions are forced to bring about a great deal of social work, to replace the social state, to overturn their planning. How will these bodies respond to their current obligations, to the payroll of their staff, to the implementation of the programmes? There is internal lending, as it has been admitted, but without knowing the framework for this negotiation. Everything in hiding. This is an incomplete policy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government has no plan, no objectives, no strategy. He misled the Greek people. He convinced him there were other solutions. Today all this electoral populism is falling apart. The Prime Minister must come to Parliament and tell us what is going on with the negotiation, what the financial framework is going on in the country, what the country's objectives are and how the next financial needs will be met. In front of the summer, the bonds expire, the country has to pay interest and debt. Time is starving, and the situation is getting hard. I address myself to the government, to you, Minister. Do not weaken the country's negotiating power any more. Leave the scenarios for elections and referendums and all that triggers tension within and outside the country. Go towards an agreement with the least possible cost to the Greek citizen. At last, rule. Ninety days now the market is drying from liquid. Ask the free professionals, traders, small and medium-sized businessmen. See the departure of deposits from the Greek banks. The economy is falling apart. Everything testifies and outlines the inconvenience and chaos you have created. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would like to say that the PASOK supports and will continue to support the country. But we will not consent to this dangerous game you have started, leading the country to collapse and humiliation. For all these reasons, we are voting against the legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u744	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr Alexandros Triantafylides has the floor. This is followed by colleagues and other speakers. Voridis and Constantinople will intervene after the Minister, Mr Apostolos. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u745	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make an account of what we have seen from this morning until now. At the time when the Greek Government, through the presence of the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras and the meetings he has with the director of Brussels and the presences and interventions of Yiannis Varoufakis, we had to face an opposition, at least in most of it, which does not have the will and will to listen to what the people say, that is, to put back on this national effort. Instead, they are engaged in what is called "pasoceneocracy" or vice versa, in an obvious attempt to tackle the political, existential problem of their leaderships. Samaras and Venizelos, Venizelos and Samaras, are trying to survive in a political system, in a political relation that has expelled them, simply not yet understood, in a political process that has withdrew them like hair from the dough, with the command always and the will of the Greek people. It is clear, however, that the criticality of the moments prevents the country, in addition to the other problems, from taking this problem as well. It's a problem that needs to be solved. It is deafening the absence of the Karamanlis wing, the fact that he taught the principle of measure and moderation of Constantine Karamanlis or the national pride of PASOK and the New Democracy at the same time as major national issues. They really expressed, saw, showed what a unity of the Greek people, a people's unity, to address the major problems and issues, where the act of legislation obeys and where one really could say, to ask - and this rhetorical question comes constantly - 'Look who are talking'. We had twenty-seven acts of legislation. One was heard by some made redundant, unemployed at the ERT and waiting for the National Representation, because that act of legislation was annulled, but its murder remained. It was the legislative act which, as the Scientific Council of Parliament describes it here, should have been ratified by Parliament within three months. That's never happened. Its legal consequences, i.e. the destruction of the life of three thousand people and families, and then it was abducted without the National Representation to say whether it was well or badly issued. And the President of PASOK described this act as a raw cynical exercise as a legislative act. Is she the best? If we were to ask Nikos Voutsi personally, if we would ask Dimitris personally, Marda would say, "not the best it could be." It does not correspond to the respect of a parliamentary procedure, but it is because we cannot level it out. In the face of an act of legislation which has never come, neither in forty days nor in three months, it was adopted the day before, and has been heard by the institutions yesterday and today since the morning and for several hours freely, democratically, anyone will be able to express their views. Mr. Venizelos then said on 12-06-2013: "Whether we like it or not, there is a serious institutional problem, a question of democracy that has never been passed by Parliament". On June 15, five days after the coup d'état of ERT's 'Black', he said: 'The violent interruption of the Greek Public Television broadcast raises a question of democracy, it is an institutional issue', as he just said about raw, cynical. And on 17 June he said: "In my opinion the decision of the CoR must be implemented and the ERT must be opened." They wrote it all in the oldest of their shoes. ERT never opened. The decision of the Council of State has never been implemented and, of course, the act of legislation has never come to Parliament. Because if it were to come, PASOK would vote differently and would throw the government with which it was confused - as Mr Kouvelis had left - with Mr Samaras. In Mr Venizelos' question, if the lives of the Greeks are better, it is clear that it is not. We are all experiencing the uncertainty, the battle that the Greek Government is currently giving, the lack of, the next day, the next week, the next month, to give even stronger and harder battles. But one thing we keep hearing from the world. Yes, we may find it difficult, yes, there may be a problem, a matter, but there is what is called an upright attitude, a proud attitude. The proud attitude of Alexis Tsipras, the government of SYRIZA and ANELs, really right now fuels the Greek citizen's average psyche, so that you can never understand it, because the attitude and the way you chose was very different. We've heard more. The witness, Mr. Hardouvelis, had said to "MEGA" and to your dear Mr. Pretenderis that for many years we will have a memorandum. ‘until when?’ He asked him. He also replied: "Since 75% of the debt has been repaid".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u746	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u747	That's what the witness, Mr. Hardouvelis, said and we heard Mr. Venizelos here saying that we were about to get out of the Memorandum. But your Minister of Finance had a different view and he had a different perception. So this attitude is clear, it is clear. It was written in some articles that the "Pasokoneocaustism" has chosen the farewell attitude of lenders, in the political sense of the term. We don't want to believe it. This attitude of the cursor of the hailers rubbing his hands at every difficult turn of this negotiation does not fit. Come to this great national alliance. Your world, the PASOK and the New Democracy, has gone so far. He's with us in the squares, he's with us at the gatherings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u748	PAME's on the outside. Not the New Democracy and PASOK world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u749	You slowly lose this world, because this world is touching on Alexis Tsipras, it touches on the government of SYRIZA and the ANELs who want to continue the upright and proud attitude, the stand that opens new roads and new data for us and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u750	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Mr Vorides has the floor, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos and Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u751	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, at the moment, I saw people protesting in the squares against the government's policy. I don't know, have you lost any clicks? That was the last one. Now to the government where you are workers in Skouria have protested against government policy, and today local government workers have protested against the act of legislative content.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u752	With the kind sponsorship.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u753	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u754	If you missed this now, you'd better adjust. Mr. Triantafylides...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u755	Don't interrupt. Please continue, Mr. Voridis, not in a personal report.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u756	I remove Mr Triantafylides. It is always interesting to listen to people with passion to expose their personal problems to the House. However, it would be better if they were trying to lift the duties of the MP, who are trying to represent, as laid down in the Constitution, the nation and the people, and to put aside their personal issues. We all have personal issues, but it is not the place to solve them here. Legislative act. All I wanted to remind you, because everything has been said, is that we have missed our President in this particular debate. We have missed our President to hear those fires against acts of legislation, but also the commitments since her election as President. We're looking for her. We missed her.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u757	That's cheap.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u758	The criticism of the President of Parliament is cheap?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u759	Respect the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u760	Secondly, the legislative act, Minister, is a confession of what? The political forced internal lending. The proud negotiation led to a statement from the government that I do not know how proud it is. "We have no wages, pensions," said the Minister. I don't know if you're proud of this statement. And to say this, to solve, Mr Voutsi, our issues. Don't listen to that again. Why? I'll make it clear to you. Let us remove the question of funding, Mr President. In a magical way, we have access to the financial markets tomorrow morning, Greece has no financing problem. Ask us again, 'Do you agree with our programme'? Answer: No, we do not agree with your programme. We do not agree with the economic programme on the Left. Is that clear? Do you have any questions? So the line, the dimension you want to give, which is "or you are with us or you are with the lenders" has the following answer: We are not with you, we are with the financial programme of the New Democracy. So is that clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u761	The 'we're not with the lenders', you didn't say, we didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u762	I'll go to the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u763	Don't interrupt the speaker. Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u764	Did you see what is nice that it is when the dilemmas are removed, when we go back to the nice and great ideological conversation between the economics of freedom and economics of collectiveism? You saw how the scene clears up with who you are, who you go with and who you leave with? So for the matter now of negotiation you can - if you want, in your hand is - ask us questions. In the questions you ask us, you must tell us what they are dealing with. I was challenged - to remind you, ladies and gentlemen - a debate by the Prime Minister to tell us how the negotiations are going. He came, smacked the Opposition, didn't tell us a word about the negotiation and he left. What are the issues you're dealing with? For we, Mr Voutsi, disagreed when we were told that the budget gap was EUR 2.5 billion. Do I hear you're talking about 6.2? And that's what you're asking us questions about? You realize that you're government, and if the gap has gone to 6.2 it's your fault, why did we give it to 2.5? Do you realize it's your fault to dry the economy? Do you realize that for the delay in the economy it is you and your choice of negotiation? Do you understand that you are not taking real measures, that it is essential not to pay public service obligations to private individuals? Because in turn private individuals don't pay, because that gives rise to unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u765	Like the channels?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u766	So listen to what I would suggest: Because you support, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and others, one government - your right - this government has huge issues ahead of it. This morning we went out into the mad joy of the Prime Minister's meeting with Chancellor - the Prime Minister - in the mad joy! Until we arrived this afternoon, the Minister for Finance had suffered, from what we are learning, insults, insults and a series of ministers of Europe have produced behind each other to say that there is no progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u767	And you're happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u768	I'm not happy at all. Because I'd rather have something else. But I'm so sorry, don't put the burden on us. You don't negotiate, do we? You don't have the responsibility to bring in a proposal, do we? Isn't your government negotiating and having effect? Is that our fault? Has anyone made it difficult for you? Go and get any deal you want. Who is she that you like? Don't you want to get a deal? Don't bring in. Take responsibility for your policy. What exactly has the Opposition made it difficult for you to make your choices?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u769	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u770	But you can't fool. Oh, no, what do you mean? Can we applaud you? There's no way. Because we have a different perception. I told you again, take off the funding. Is there any chance that we could agree with a left-wing programme? God save!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u771	Finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u772	So to make it clear - and I'm finishing - Mr. Voutsi, do you have an answer? Do you have any questions? I don't want to hear that again. The answer, therefore, is clear and clear: you are the legitimately elected government of Greece, you represent the Greek State in the negotiations, you have a solid responsibility for this negotiation. The Qualified Opposition disagrees with your financial programme, whether it is related to funding or not, and in this sense our confrontation is ideological, worthy and moral. We support freedom, you support collectiveism. Other programs, other values, other logical. Don't ever hear us give up for our stand! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u773	Thank you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u774	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u775	Here you go, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u776	Wait a minute, really, to clarify things. You have said too many words with very great passion for the essence of your policy. You did not say two things, which are still pending, perhaps even historically. Firstly, how has this political view of economic issues, for four years - five years, been transformed into these incredible numbers of the humanitarian crisis and the social austerity programmes in Greece? The second, however, and more importantly: you have not said a word about the four major issues which, not only in Parliament and by the Prime Minister, but in all tones and by foreigners have been raised. It was also on e-mail, for which you did indeed prefer the government to fall and did not even bring it to the House at the time, i.e. reductions in wages, pensions, VAT, sales, etc. That was the issue. Now, if resisting them is the left program, if saying to them that 'it's none of my business, I don't care, it hurts someone I don't represent' is the other program or anything, one can judge it. There I agree with you, but what remains as a standstill is whether you are presently suggesting, out of or press, or in any way insinuating to the country's Prime Minister on these issues to say 'yes, go ahead with accepting the objections so that the country leaves the country'. This has been raised as a question. The other things are matters that we have been discussing for years and we will be discussing - I hope - in the future too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u777	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u778	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u779	Mr. Georgiadis, you will take the floor, but I would also like you to take the floor, since Mr. Vorides has not taken a position on the parliamentary amendment which commits the government to restoring any positive damage in favour of...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u780	Is she acceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u781	You're very welcome. If Mr Vorides read the text of the Rules of Procedure, he would see that if the government intends to accept it, he can, because there is provision in the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr Georgiadis, please take a stand, because if you read it, you will see that it is in a very positive direction, because it undertakes to restore all positive damage to the regions and all the agencies of the general government. I would ask you, and on this point, to make a position, unless Mr Vorides read the Rules of Procedure, he continues to object whether or not the government can accept it by this procedure. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u782	Minister, I admit that if you were as good in managing the economy as you are in propaganda, Greece would already be Switzerland after three months of government of SYRIZA. Unfortunately, the only thing you have is to completely distort reality. Report the famous e-mail Hardouvelis. You say that, Mr. Sakellaridis, Mr. Army. You come out in a hundred channels a day, but one of you has read it e-mail Hardouvelis? I read it to you in English: "Maintain nominal pension at the level of 2015". Maintain the level of pensions at 2015 and 2016 and 2017 level. To do this to you, Mr. Loverdos had passed a law. This law said that on 1-1-2015 a 2% increase in pensions should be provided. What E-mail Hardouvelis says is the word "mainin", that is to keep pensions at the same level. Where did you see the pension cuts in the e-mail Hardouvelis and you call them ten ministers a day, constantly lying to the Greek people? You don't even know how to read? We shall now go to the subsidiary because you have dared to ask me. Listen, Mr. Army. We've had this conversation before. The zero deficit clause is correct. Now listen, because it's right. It does not reduce 90% of pensions, as you keep saying today and Mr. Varoufakis, this unrealistic Minister of Finance who has made us arrogant worldwide...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u783	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u784	It's made us sick worldwide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u785	To withdraw Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u786	Please! Unless, Mr. Army, that 90% cut you keep saying it evil, so that the Greeks know it's supposedly 90%, sign one minus 30% and say "we saved 60%". Mine 4,4% is in our budget. And the budget is written and anyone who wants to go in and sees him. It's minus 4.4%. Now how minus 4.4% you have managed to do it minus 90% to explain it to us. Why is the clause of the zero deficit correct? What does that terrible law say? It says that instead of paying taxes of 1 billion to pay for plastic pensions and for plastic ones to those who are not entitled to them, because what they have paid is not enough for this money, instead of adding unemployment, instead of adding to the private economy, the subsidiary funds are learning and have to live with their own money. So the law is right and apply it. So tell us at last what the points of your negotiation are, and indeed, if there are points in which we agree with your own red lines, we will support you, Mr Voutsis, what you have been doing since the morning, and you will do so with a tone and a little tear on the screen. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u787	Where did you see that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u788	On Parliament's channel. It doesn't mean in Greece that whoever's not with SYRIZA is a traitor. Where did you see that written? What are you? Are you Greece and the Greek nation? Well, yeah, we're not with SYRIZA, because we believe in privatisation, and we don't do it for the troika, we do it because we believe them. We believe in the liberalisation of the labour market and do not do it for the troika, because we believe it. We believe in the private economy, and we don't do it because the troika tells us, we do it because we believe it. And we won't change what we think, to be good at you, Mr. Voutsi, which in three months you have taken a Greece with growth and a Greece which was considered a miracle of all foreign means... [[Laughers in the Chamber]] You're laughing because you don't understand from...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u789	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u790	When we fell, Mrs. Leva, that wasn't what Kufontinas told you when you fired us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u791	Don't mention it personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u792	The country's loan rate was 4.5%, in three months you've gone 31%. That's what you've done and you've got your face and you're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u793	Society knows and let go of what you're saying. Mercy! You've become handwriting now. We have society happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u794	These, Mr. Army and Mr. Voutsi, because good accounts make good friends. You are not blowing Greece, nor are we all obligated to be with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u795	Minister Hillis has the floor for only two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u796	Mr President, I did not intend to speak today, but Mr Vorides and Mr Georgiadis and I want to be sanctified do not leave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u797	Giving opportunity!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u798	Well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u799	Minister, we want the law on trade unions, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u800	Bring the union law and we'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u801	A law will come to restore the minimum wage, a law will come to restore collective agreements and an amendment will be added - an amendment that will indefinitely suspend the application of the zero deficit clause of the new mathematical formula for single and new pension reductions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u802	Dream!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u803	So I say, Mr President, because you are a professor, a brilliant scientist, and beyond the politicians you know well what has happened to this House, but above all to the Greek people. Perhaps Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Vorides and the leadership of the New Democracy have not yet inspired what reductions they led to. First of all, they have not given rise to what reductions have led to the main and supplementary pensions in the past five years with their memoranda. 40% to 50%. Let me tell you, Mr President - you know very well - that in 2009 total expenditure, not only the public, but also those collected by employee and employers' contributions, was EUR 32 billion for pensions per year and with the Memorandum measures, they fell to 23.5 billion. In other words, they have been removed from the pensioners' pockets about EUR 8.5 to EUR 9 billion, due to the wave of five successive reductions in the main and ancillary pensions. Secondly, what was planned for 2015, Mr President? They are written by the state budget, which the New Democracy and the PASOK voted on when they were government last November. What exactly did he predict? That, in 2015, only EUR 326 million would be deducted from the zero deficit clause. If Mr Vorides and Mr Georgiadis open the budget in the state of 2015 that they voted, they will see it. Mr President, what was provided for by the stricter criteria for the allocation of CSR? It was foreseen that the amount of State funding would be reduced by EUR 82 million only in 2015. What was foreseen, Mr President, by the principle of application for those who were entitled to a pension from 1-1 to 2015 and after the new method of calculating the main pension? Reductions of EUR 2 million, EUR 4 million in 2016, EUR 9 million in 2017 and escalating, Mr President, because you know that by changing the method of calculation for thirty-five years from 1-1-2015, there would be continuous reductions in pensions. What have been predicted - and I shall end, Mr President - about the implementation of the new mathematics on the one hand? Reductions in 2015 from 30% to 80%, which would cost pensioners' pockets, as recorded in the state budget, 70,000, 000 euros plus 500,000 euros, 120,000 euros. Mr President, they would, in other words, remove pensioners' pockets if they were re-elected and applied, over 500,000 000 euros. What are they asking me for? I am told, Mr President, that as a competent minister I do not apply these provisions, while insisting that pensioners' incomes be made even more plundered. [[Applause]] We will not, Mr President. There's no way. No matter how much the country's lenders are pushing us, no matter how much the fifth pillar that operates in Greece is in favour of them, we will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u804	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u805	Just a moment to follow the show. Mr. Theocharis has asked for the floor for two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u806	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to refer a little to the issues of the amendment, but before that, Mr. Army...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u807	Mr. Theochari, excuse me for a moment. At 23.00 I will interrupt for the roll-call votes. Two proposals have been tabled. We will continue with two-three Members. I will ask the speakers if they want to take the floor for a second, I will read the names and at 23.00 hours the roll-call votes will take place. It's over. Know this and those of you who intervene to be pitiful in abuses. Mr. Theochari, you can continue for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u808	Mr. Army tells us very well what will not cut. He hasn't told us who's gonna pay for it. This wisdom must finally be over. When we bring provisions to the House, which say yes, we will cut something off or increase some costs, they must tell us who they are going to take them from. That's half a job. They have to bring all the work, because we believe that the extraordinary contributions will eventually fall into everyone's head. The unemployed with their taxation and all the others will pay all this. If supplementary pensions, if they do not have sufficient funding, they must explain to us what methodology they will find this funding in order to be able to judge what Mr Army tells us. What I wanted to say - and I am brief - is for the amendment. There is no procedure for this late amendment to be accepted. In addition, the President of Parliament has stated that no amendments will be accepted. It was technically lacking in the urgent bill, it did not want to accept any urgency, and within five bills we have two acts of legislation, one urgent and two normal. In the first instance, therefore, the President of Parliament was not present. In the first ratification of a legislative act, it is lacking. Let's see what kind of trick she's gonna do so she'll miss the second one. We'll be here and we'll watch it. It's a different matter. The legislative act already has legal consequences. The Minister, Mr Mardas, therefore, knows how much money he has raised with this act. This amendment is a confession that they are desperate because they break time-consuming deposits with which the operators were better interested and demand despair, because it is obvious that the month is not coming out with this amendment. So let Mr Marda immediately tell us how much money they have raised so far and how much money they are left to complete the obligations of April. It is not possible with this amendment to admit such a failure and a failure to collect revenue in order to meet the obligations. Thank you and we're waiting for an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u809	The amendment, which I do not know will be accepted by the Minister, if you read it, reduces the acidity of the act for which you complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u810	It doesn't blunt her. In this amendment, they break the deadlines!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u811	And I keep going to place them...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u812	Now, that's what you break the timeliness! They weren't broken before!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u813	Mr. Theochari, in the spirit, I tell you, if you read it, it will ease acidity, because the government is committed...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u814	But they weren't broken, Mr. President! We were told in committee that they would not break the deadlines! That's what's gonna break them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u815	Before I give you the floor, Mr Kegeroglu, for two minutes, I would like to speak for a moment. According to Article 74(3) - the legal persons will have read it - it is up to the Government to what is going to happen with the amendment. An amendment to the imperfections which Mr Vorides observed and identified, if accepted by the government, is introduced despite imperfections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u816	No, Mr President. It is not'subjected'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u817	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes, and then Mr. Vorides follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u818	I'm gonna need a minute. Mr President, I would like to address Mr Army, who referred to all the issues, but did not say whether or not he intends to apply Law 3863 and give his increases in line with the GDP increase, in accordance with this provision. Will increases and retrospectively from 1-1-2015, Mr. Army? That's the one thing. The second issue is in relation to the amendment, which does not include deposits that are not forward, but are at very high interest rates. Mr Mardas knows that there is a large number of municipalities and regions that have deposits with interest rates of 4% and 5%, but they are not for the time being. Aren't you going to bring in some sort of regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u819	Mr. Vorides has the floor for two minutes. Then I will give the floor to Mr. Constantinople. I've called him three times. Then the Minister, Mr. Apostolos, will take the floor, as I have said, and Mr. Mardas will close. Of course, the request will also speak, Mr. Friends. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u820	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say that I am very happy, because I think we have clarified issues, not to ask questions, and Mr Voutsi. We've got it all taken care of. Is that right? Good. But we shall now proceed to the amendment. Article 73(3) of the Constitution: ‘No proposal for a law or amendment or addition shall be introduced for discussion...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u821	I, Article 74(3), indicated to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u822	‘... if it originates in the House, provided that it entails, against the public, the ATT or other legal persons governed by public law costs or a reduction in their property, in order to give a wage, pension or general benefit to a person’. Now, Article 74(3) provides: ‘Approvals of Members to bills or proposals of laws... shall not be introduced for debate unless they are submitted until the day of the debate’. That's what's late. However, according to Article 75(1): 'Each bill and every...'...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u823	Continue with Article 74(3).
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u824	You will continue, Mr President, because late is a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u825	'Unless the government also agrees to discuss it.' That concludes Article 74(3). Continue on substance if you object, but do not give up on the Bureau that it is not interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u826	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u827	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u828	Mr President, our main problem here, the way I read it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u829	In substance, speak if you have an objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u830	No, no. I don't really have a point, or rather I should say it differently. I have an objection...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u831	The President is simply giving you the floor in an extraordinary manner.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u832	Can I finish up if you'll excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u833	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u834	Thank you, Mr President. Article 73(3) is the issue. And Article 73(3) of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, what is it? It raises the question that there cannot be any amendment or legislative initiative by Parliament if this entails budgetary costs. This has been done for a number of reasons. There's a tradition in it. This amendment entails budgetary costs. So, first of all, it's not imported...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u835	It's not a cost. It creates benefit and it is contradictio, it is in itself a contradiction, what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u836	Let me say. It's costing. I'll tell you now about the substance. The first objection is that we in any case do not support the regulation. So in any case, we don't want it to happen. That's the first. I say that the government cannot accept it for the reason I told you. The second point, Mr President, is this: what does the government now say about it? He says: If the TAs are damaged - why? - because they are going to break the forward deposits and at the same time damage occurs to the banks because of this break, then in reality, all this will come to the Greek state. Why? In order to alleviate the effects of this arrangement. We have two issues here. Firstly, we have a confession of the damage that we have suffered and a vindication of the criticism we have been making so far. Secondly, we have a choice to transfer the cost of this particular choice to the taxpayer instead of the banks and the dispute. So we have a point of order here, Mr President. But I insist on Article 73(3), because it opens up extremely bad practice. I'm talking about the government. You'll find this in front of you. Because if you do so, you will be constantly being subjected to amendments by the House with a certain amount of pressure, which will have budgetary costs, and you will be told of Rule 73(3), which is a cut-off and withholding of expenditure, and you will not be able to invoke it, because you will have opened up a very bad principle. That is why, Mr President, for constitutional reasons - not to raise a constitutional issue now - the government has the opportunity to legislate on Monday. Let him bring this amendment with a report from the General Accounting Office to the ERT bill as an amendment to discuss it properly. Why should it come as a parliamentary without a report from the General Accounting Office, without an assessment of the costs, without anything going through in such an irregular way? It's Monday. Tuesday's the bill is passed and it's over. So, what's the problem with that? And I say that if you insist on regulation. Leave the substance. Don't go to unconstitutionalism now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u837	After your intelligent relocation, I thought I was going to suggest something different. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u838	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard Mr Army today talking about the reductions he has made. But the government itself had promised that by a law, with an article, they would abolish the memorandum. So there was in no way a need for these reductions. For all this, however, Mr Mardas has answered. Mr. Mardas is not an accidental official. Mr. Mardas has been in public administration for many years. He has made Secretary General for Trade with Mr Christodoulakis. Mr Tsohatzopoulos has been appointed to the Export Promotion Agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u840	Indeed, he himself, one month before his election in writing, regrettably at Mr Theodorakis' 'Protagon.gr', he said: 'After we got a new amount of disgusting' - Mr Mardas said that - 'from our political system with the Haikalis case, we are going to the national elections. Thus, right-wing left-wing populists - the left-wing memorial and left-wing populists - say to you, Mr. Solis, "try to show the Greek voters how bad they are or will be in the face of the troika, an incomprehensible tactic" - continues Mr. Marda - "with contradictory strategies and with many men and women a moderate political system and ethos are trying to convince the lovers of power" - rather to you - "the citizens that the country's salvation depends on their conflict with the troika". It's about you, probably. There are no others. And he says something else in the end. He says that the troika had to come and put order in the country at last. That's not what I'm saying. These are said by Mr. Mardas, Professor of Economic Sciences at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. I'm putting this to you in the Minutes, because we don't have to talk to you. Why, Mr. Voutiss, if I said it, he would tell me that I am not a patriot and all that. The Minister said it on 31-12-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u841	Continue, Mr. Constantinople. Don't interrupt him all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u842	However, Mr Mardas was also prophetic during the programming statements. Really, it's all this together. Besides finding money in an hour, he has divination and prophetic skills. Mr Mardas therefore said in your government's programming statements: "It is also intended to review the institutional framework for the costs of the movement of public officials, so as not to deal with phenomena, as before, according to which a Minister transferred eleven people to Brussels, to a Council of Ministers only to announce that he opens the Acropolis Museum". I do not want to believe that you were saying this about Mrs Constantopoulou, who took twelve and went to Rome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u843	Thirteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u844	Were you really so prophetic? I don't want it and I can't believe it! I shall conclude, and I shall be very brief. I don't have to say anything else. Colleagues of the Government, are there any auctions? Because the minister fighting against the troika with the government has been telling us for five months that the world with the auctions was losing its homes. We are therefore waiting for this amendment and you have not brought it. Did the auctions stop or did you forget? With regard to Mr Voutsi, what you said and what Mr Philis said about the elections and the rebaptism, we understood that. Because now you've been going to the churches, I wish God could give you some light to do the best for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u845	Thank you. Mr. Apostle has asked for the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u846	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only having a debate on the legislative act. We have even reached a Parliamentary control without limits and fantasies, without actually specific objects. We have an act of legislation. The Government shall have the right to bring this action.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u847	Where's it from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u848	Mr. Ignace, don't interrupt. Let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u849	Please! At this critical time, the government wants the negotiation that makes it abstract, with the proper support of the Greek people. He wants to have solved everything that might arise from other obligations. Because there has been a lot of spices around the resources available to the Ministry of Rural Development, I would like to say that it is a question of making use of the available resources. In fact, with its amendment, even in cases where we have time-consuming statements, all of this is still guaranteed. If I give you the example of OPECE, will you tell me that it is not used to the benefit of the rural area? Well, we transferred to the Bank of Greece in a stream of 2.3% - 2.4%, about 300 million OPECE, which were parked from 2008 to October 2014 at a zero interest rate in a banking institution. From October 2014 until yesterday at a interest rate of 0,3! So do you not realize that this is a proper use of the OPEKEPE's resources? What is available? Because there has been a spiral that these available resources will prevent the payment of aid in general rural areas. And payments were made normally and continue to be made and at the same time the money cannot be used for payment. This money relates to the Rural Development Programme. It was an advance from program 2007-2014 and you know that the advance is offset at the end of the program. The program isn't over. There's another six months left. In fact, we are making an effort - and this is what we need to discuss - to have an extension of six months so that we can absorb a billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, which we will lose because we have not been able to manage this programme for the rural area so far. These are the main issues we need to discuss. From the point of view of OPECE, therefore, this money cannot go any other way, nor can it be made available before the programme is completed. What, then, is the problem and what difficulty is coming to this agency? None at all. So we don't have to make spaghetti, especially in an area with sensual sensations. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, to make one thing clear: we have a specific programme. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the same programme. We don't have the same starting point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u850	We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u851	Quiet, please, so we can get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u852	Therefore, other targets ours, yours. We finally agree on that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u853	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going towards the end of a difficult process, for which I too apologise for mistakes and for tons, etc. Mr. Friends has asked for the floor. Let's see who else. I will give the opportunity for a two-minute - not more - intervention by the main speakers if they want to. I will give the floor to the Minister to tell us about the amendment and to close it. We'll recognize the names of the colleagues who sign the roll-calls. We'll interrupt at 23:00. At 23.05 p.m. with 23.10 p.m., we'll start the roll-call vote. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u854	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment proposed by the SYRIZA Members responds to the anxiety, which we heard yesterday at the hearing of the institutions, in an anguish of mayors, prefectures, but also Members of Parliament about the performance of the time limits and the possibility of damage to certain municipalities or regions. So only positively could someone take this move. The issues which have been raised, that there is no report from the General Accounting Office of the State, to say that as far as we know there is no need to be a report when a parliamentary amendment is tabled. And, of course, it is possible for the government to accept this amendment or see any other procedure, which, in its opinion, will be able to satisfy - I repeat - the reasonable requirement of the mayors and regional authorities not to be harmed by the issue of forward deposits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u855	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u856	And less, Mr President. Mr Voridis has already put the amendment. This is an unacceptable procedure for us. He has to come in to have a normal conversation. You can bring her on Monday and see what exactly it is about, what amounts we're talking about. Also, be careful, Mr President, something has not been understood. Bank losses - because these losses are between the depositor and the bank - are borne by the Greek State by a move made by the government. And I'll tell my friend Mr. Solis, because he did this nice analysis to me before how good you are in pensions: You know, Mr. Solis, when two days ago your Minister on television revealed that you are missing 400 million to pay salaries and pensions, that is, you don't know if you're going to have to pay the next month wages and pensions, to come here and tell us how much you want to defend them, it's a little oxymobile and contradictory. I would also like to say that if, as you do, we go to the drachma, all pensions will be reduced, sir, subsidiary, everything, about 80%. That's what's gonna be of underestimation. So you're not the good guy and we're the bad guys. Watch why you're taking the country straight to the rocks. As far as Mr Marda is concerned - to close - Mr Minister, I was very pleased with the article read by Mr Constantinople. It was excellent. I didn't know you were ours all this time. Maybe that's why you were so sympathetic to us. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] I'm really glad. When you get down, you can sit out of here. No problem. Our views are the same. With Mr. Army, you will have a few issues and Mr. Voutsi, who told us earlier that those who resist the troika are patriots and all others are traitors! Mr. Voutsis also ranked you to the traitors, since according to the Minister, thankfully, the Troika came to build Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u857	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Balaouras, Mrs. Asmakopoulou, Mr. Galeos, Mr. Charakides, Mr. Vardalis, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Loverdes, if they want to speak for a moment or two before the Minister takes the floor. Do you want to talk, Mr Balaura?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u858	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u859	Mr Balaura, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u860	Mr President, the masks have fallen today. The New Democracy has just repeated its position for a quarter to support the mail Hardouvelis, which accepted a reduction in wages and pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u861	Let's go again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u862	After I read it to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u863	What did you read? We know. Don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u864	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u865	You said yourself that you were from an ideological and political point of view in favour of privatisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u866	It's all the same again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u867	Of course. And you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u868	We have therefore known your privatizations, we have known the sale you have been doing all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u869	Milder, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u870	The New Democracy has also reiterated its pride in the towel of labour rights - you have just said so - despite the fact that our country has been condemned by the International Labour Organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u871	Three lists has been given by Barofakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u872	The objections from New Democracy, Potami and the PASOK to the unconstitutionality of the act have been disqualified. The same was done for retrospectiveness. And here we were being fooled. They voted for legislative acts with retroactive force many, within the House, people themselves. The dilemma we have raised, ladies and gentlemen, is simple. By negotiating or subjugating? But that's no longer true. It is not because you are still in favour of subjection, because you represent the most extreme lenders, not as agents who have previously risen up by Nikos Voutsi, but as an ideological and political match to subjugation, ideological and political, that you have from neoliberalism and his patrons. But SYRIZA is on the opposite side, whether you like it or you don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u873	Three times with Merkel!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u874	We represent the world of work, Mrs. Vulture and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u875	Three times in a month you went to Merkel. You're Mercedes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u876	...with the government of SYRIZA we found health paper and ATMs were working.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u877	You're done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u878	Mrs Vuldesis, we represent the world of work, you like it, you don't like young people, the pensioners, the helpless. Along with them, we'll negotiate. Along with them, we will lean on and move on, we will be sympathetic. It'll keep the smile on their lips from January 25th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u879	Mrs. Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u880	I understand that this is a difficult day for colleagues in the Com mittee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Legislative act, you are voting on it! You are voting for the legislative act. You have found it, you have voted for it without Mrs Konstantopoulou to chair it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u881	It's in Erevan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u882	Let us see Wednesday when we discuss the second act of legislation - when it comes to the plenary - if it presides, so to see if it is a coincidence today. You'll vote for it. It's more important. It is a sad day, because voting for this thing is a confession that there is nothing but a course towards the country's bankruptcy. You haven't secured anything! And you know, the thing about reality is that he can't hide behind a veil of creative ambiguity for too long. There are no two realities. There is no reality abroad, reality from another perspective and reality from our perspective. One is the reality and sometime it'll show up, because it's running time, and sometime we'll see. Is there a deal? Because I didn't hear a deal coming out of nowhere today. And Mr. Tsipras' smiles and bowing and all that is not a deal. So we expect to see, so that the country can go not on rocks, but on a sustainable day, a better day. When you're ready, we'll talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u883	Thank you. Does Mr. Galeus wish to use?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u885	Here, Mr. Galeo, for two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u886	We have seen legislative acts. We've seen the way you bring them. Unprepared. These acts are unconstitutional, however they are voted on in the House and they are made constitutional. You are bringing amendments and this is not the first time. Almost every time this thing is done. Last time for development, you brought four amendments within twenty-four hours. So the way you bring them here to the House for discussion shows both the quality of the bills and the quality of your work and certainly shows the quality of the results. Gentlemen, we are in a difficult position right now. The world is miserable and unhappy more than it had been a year ago. You said you would come to build a better future, a better present, as far as possible. Instead, we see that you are trying to do things without any program, without any substance, without any objective. Do something for the world. He's starving. It's much worse than it used to be. Keep your promises. And I hope that we will not get to the bankruptcy which, as it turns out, is being eradicated in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u887	Thank you, Mr. Galeo. Does Mr. Charakides want to speak for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u888	I will replace Mr. Charakides who is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u890	What to replace, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u891	You're very welcome. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u892	Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, don't worry. I will not "root" any more for the PPP. It has been heard so much, so many statements have been read, so I will not "roll" anymore. 'I'm not broadcasting any more'! As far as the legislative act is concerned, it has been said and we will see you on Wednesday. Legislative act, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u893	You were the first speaker to talk to me now and you asked me. I am simply saying this for colleagues in the Communist Party. Keep going now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u894	I will not read anyone's statement on legislative acts. We've exhausted it. There's a major topic for me. There is the major issue on which we are who we are, who are traitors and who are not, and who are not, and who are five-fashioned. I think things are very clear. No one's on the other bank for us. We're all from here. But we have the right to disagree and we have the right to worry. It is very clear that the entire Greek people are concerned. The way in which the solution to the domestic forced lending has been implemented makes us all worry. Obviously, all Greek citizens are not five-fashioned. They are reasonably concerned because it is a statement, in essence, by the Government that it has no more than money for the next few weeks, not for the next few months or for the next six months. We're done here. Time is running out. And if we want to have solutions, if we want to have a contraction, it would be useful to stop splitting, which of course covers the failure of the Eurogroup or the fuss about Mr Varoufakis, but do not give the opportunity to agree on a European perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u895	Thank you very much. Mr. Bardalus from the Communist Party wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u896	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u897	Mr. Vardalis resigns. Mr. Kammenos from the ANLLs is not here. Mr. Andreas Loverdos wishes to use?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u899	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u900	Mr President, we have exchanged all our arguments. I don't want to add anything. Just in my main speech, because I didn't have the time, I didn't report to the hospitals and I want to do it now. I heard on TV yesterday morning the Minister of Health said that he left the Ministry of the document to the hospital administrations that hospitals were included there and therefore, etc., but they were not included exactly and are at the discretion of each hospital, etc., etc. Yesterday, in the committee, I heard the government and I understood the suffering of Mr Kurublis. We have not been given the government to understand exactly what is happening with hospitals, and I would ask that the provision, as it is formulated, includes them, be confirmed by the Minister responsible to ensure that there are no confusions between us, which we are not allowed to say that we do not know exactly what has been voted on, or how they are not included in his own intervention and for the sake of his historical interpretation. Because, as I said this morning, you either formulate something and help the performer or you do not formulate it and what you say here is a simple set of ideas. My second point, Mr President, is that many majority Members and ministers have defended the act of legislation with great courage and passion. One wonders whether this one, one of the two forms of internal lending, is ultimately a philosophical energy, is something that has been done well. Because if we follow this thought, then we can understand, Mr President, in a few 15 days' time when the other form of internal lending, namely the haircut of private deposits, will speak with what passion. Finally, as far as the amendment is concerned... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Be well, colleagues! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u901	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Continue and finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u902	Finally, Mr President, in the same line of sloppyness and mess, as part of an internal lending, it brings a group of Members under pressure and today's sitting an amendment. Mr President, we are discussing it, and we do not know whether the government has accepted it. It's okay, though, let's make it easier. The positions we have taken on the amendment and on the committee are that it may be useful, but it is more useful that these deposits in forward-looking accounts should be excluded. They won't accept that. This amendment is coming. We understand that it is tabled by Members to overcome the problem of the lack of the General Accounting Report. However, if the government accepts it, it must give us an image of the costs and it must say here what will happen with other cases of deposits that Mr Kegeroglu referred to, which are not deposits in forward accounts, but the agreed interest rates are far greater than what the Bank of Greece could give. The sloppy sloppy can cause greater problems than what is coming from the amendment to solve. Let the Minister responsible make it clear, of course, that he too can make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u903	Thank you. Come on, Minister, make it clear, after we're done with the list of speakers. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u904	You will allow me to begin with the issues that are considered to be somewhat personal. You belong to those who had done it with the troika, according to your own approach. As far as eleven people are concerned, they refer to a New Democracy Minister who was found in Brussels with eleven, renting three Mercedes to make a simple announcement: "We opened the Acropolis Museum and we invite you to visit it." I come to whether I was placed by Mr. Tsohatzopoulos. This is particularly important to me, I can tell you. Mr Tsochazopoulos very elegantly asked for my resignation when I was Secretary-General, because I had begun a process of punishing a multinational company that violated certain rules relating to state supplies in the General Secretariat of Trade. With my removal, this company has so far not been punished. I come to your general question how I was here. And I ask you the following question: A man who made such a criticism of SYRIZA was found in a position of Minister. Have you wondered why? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u905	Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u906	Are there any qualitative differences in the way you think about yours and SYRIZA? And clearly there are. With regard to Mr Georgiadis, who invited me to the benches, if you read the other two hundred and twenty articles I wrote throughout the period after 2009, I can tell you that you may dislike me, because in some of them you also play a leading role when you were Minister of Health, so don't rush for invitations. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of all the two hundred and twenty articles, please refer to three, four to SYRIZA and the rest to a previous regime, which I call in my articles as a "trial". These are written and you can find them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u907	Mr President, I would like to speak after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u908	And I would like to explain why and if I have time to explain it to the House too. So I don't think you're gonna want me with that kind of designation. I'm coming to our point. I repeat the definition of the available resources: it is what is not committed to specific uses. It's a technical definition, it's not arbitrary, it's not legal. This means that there is no need for the slightest circular for the reimbursement fees, for the hospitals, because they are not available - and I said it this morning, and perhaps the fourth time I have stressed it - and for the universities, the accounts of the PPE, which are linked to the European programmes. With regard to the issue of forward deposits, yesterday from what I remember, it was heard in the vague that the register submitted - so I heard at least - and I am looking today for whether the Stock Exchange deposited this money to the Bank of Greece and suffered the damage to which you referred. Today, I guess...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u909	She filed them at the Bank... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u910	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u911	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u912	I didn't say that. She testified to the bank... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u913	I'm sorry. If that were the case, I'm sorry. The register hasn't deposited anything yet. Therefore, the issue is open and we will see it when the time comes. I come to the specific regulation that has been proposed. As I was given the opportunity to find another solution from the SYRIZA Members, and since I do not think there is any reason to regain acidity, I already had the amendment ready. But this morning Mr. Loverdos considered me unreliable because I hadn't brought this arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u914	I now bring this arrangement, I do not know whether I am unreliable or not, now I hear other reservations. In any case, there is no need for further acuity. Besides, our intention is to see it. And from there on, since I was also given this alternative on behalf of that group of SYRIZA Members who proposed this parliamentary amendment, I will follow it so that there is no more tension. I've got some time and I'll take all my time. I was questioned by two colleagues, by two Members, whether...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u915	Minister, you're withdrawing the amendment, are you saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u916	Yeah, I'll pull her out. And there will be a regular amendment so that we can finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u917	Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u918	Since I've been given this opportunity, I'll do it. I was asked to say or speak the truth. I want to tell you this: First of all, I have not lied and whoever is in the General Accounting Office of the State cannot lie. Anything you want and ask to see, it's all published. And anyone who doesn't know and can't read some paintings, there are MPs, former ministers of the State General Accountancy, who can help you and see the truth. It's a published truth. You will tell me: 'Why don't you often say it?' Because we consider that when there is a negotiation and some negotiation is at a critical turning point, the truth in that year does not need to be announced from here. It's our strategic concept. But we don't lie or hide the truth. Finally, I wanted to say it, you forced me to say it, and I would explain, if you like, why I described the former regime in my articles on a number of occasions. I didn't want to use this term. I wanted to use the term 'inefficient', but you caused me and I use the term 'victim'. You have raised many questions today. Because SYRIZA won and why you lost. The question is this and I let her stay...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u919	You don't have to answer it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u920	No, two minutes. Are the SYRIZA positions that led to this result, or the positions that I developed so long, which means that your ineffectiveness rate was too low, was too low? You haven't built a rule of law in so long. The country remained in the eighty-eighth place at the stage of global corruption all this time. You have reached the country to be the first to go bankrupt. You have not organised the OTAs in such a way that they can manage the money that the central administration wants to give. Our study shows that OTAs buy twice the price of supplies. And in the final analysis, I can tell you you didn't do the same thing. I come to two issues and I close. Cheers, dear. You didn't do anything, even though you had solutions in your office I sent you. Petroleum and fuel management. Semimeters, while you had solutions, which you had in your hands, and you could apply them. We have prepared them within three months, and they will soon come down in the form of amendments to the House. And the health supply system follows this system that was submitted to your office and to Mr. Voridis and Mr. Loverdus - because it was an initiative by Mr. Loverdus and he wasn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u921	It's the epitome of ambiguities and burdology. Make him smart!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u922	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u923	Don't get upset. There are written texts, written analyses, written solutions to the two specific problems. So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u924	I asked you, Minister, how much have you gathered with this... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u925	So...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u926	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u927	So beyond the criticism, some time perhaps self-criticism would be advisable to entrust the two parties that ruled the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u928	You didn't answer me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u929	Mr. Theochari, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u930	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u931	Mr Georgiadis, I have been pleading for dozens of our fellow Members who intend to travel tonight for their provinces to finish. You want to take the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u932	Wait a minute, Mr. President. [[Noise and protests in the Chamber]] Okay, I won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u933	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities of Greece (CEDEFOP) has tabled a resolution - which, for the sake of an economy in the debate, is being tabled in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[The above resolution is tabled in the Minutes and is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[We'll get the pedals in. 625a and 625b]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned at the outset and on the articles of the draft law: ‘Repeal of 20 April 2015 Act of Legislative Content ‘Expressed regulation for the transfer of cash from the General Government to an investment in the Bank of Greece’ (A to 41)’. The principle of the draft law, as well as Article 1, have applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy and the Communist Party of Greece whose texts are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u934	As far as the procedure is concerned, I would like to remind you that under Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be taken when a request signed by the total number of Members is made. At the end of the debate on this matter, the names of the signatories are given for the request by Members. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted (Rule 72(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House). If the minimum number of signatories is established, the meeting shall be suspended. I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Mitsotakis Kyriakos. Here you go. Mrs. Ahmakopoulou Anna - Michelle. Here. Mr. Voridis Mavroudis. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mr. Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Metarakis Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Kaklamanis Nikitas. Here you go. Mr. Augias Eleftherios. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Fortsakis Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Stavros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Kefaliannis Ioannis. Here you go. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mrs. Kefaliannis Olga. Here. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mrs. Tragakis John. Here you go. Mrs. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure of signatories to request a roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. I shall now read out the list of signatories to the request for the roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mrs. Bardalis Athanasios. Here you go. Mrs. Gerasimidou Helen. Here. Mrs. Giokas John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Marinos George. Here you go. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u935	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. A roll-call vote will take place at the outset and under Article 1 of the draft law: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content ‘Additional regulation for the transfer of cash from the General Government to investment in the Bank of Greece’ (A φ 41)’. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament are invited on the list. Panagiota Dritsel by SYRIZA and Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 72(6), those who accept the bill in principle and say in Article 1 'WEI'. Those who fail to accept the draft law in principle and in accordance with Article 1 shall be referred to as ‘ORPs’. The voters say 'PARON'. I would like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, in which they state their vote on the principle and Rule 1. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Please, Mrs Dricksel and Mr Kefaliannis, start reading the catalogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u936	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u937	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr Danellis, Mr Scandalidis, Mr Gregorakos and Mr Christophilopoulou, who tell us that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'OH'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u938	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u939	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the result of a roll-call vote. A total of 260 Members voted. The principle of the draft law: In other words, 156 Members voted in favour. Against the start of the draft law, 104 Members voted against. Vote 'PARTS' no one. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice In other words, 156 Members voted in favour. Under Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 104 Members voted. Vote 'PARTS' no one. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u940	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u941	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u942	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u943	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Therefore, the Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content of 20 April 2015 ‘Additional regulation for the transfer of cash to be invested in the Bank of Greece’ (A to 41)’ was accepted by a majority in principle and on the articles. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u944	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u945	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u946	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u947	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Repeal of the Act of Legislative Content of 20 April 2015 ‘Additional regulation for the transfer of cash to be invested in the Bank of Greece’ (A 41)’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u948	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-24-S1-commons.u949	With the consent of the House at no time 23:47 the meeting for Monday 27 April 2015 on the subject of the House's work: a) legislative work (time 12.00), only discussion at the outset, articles and all of the draft law: "Consolidation of Public Broadcasting, Greek Radio Television Anonymous Company and amendment of Rule 48 of the Rules of Procedure". 2190/1920 and other provisions' and (b) parliamentary scrutiny (time 18.00) reading reports, topical and urgent debate on petitions and questions.
