ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Tsirkas, to read the references to this House. Before giving the floor to Mr Circa, I would like to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the southern theory, 50 students of the Parliamentary Law of the University of Athens. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Circas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u2	SYRIZA MP Anna Vaguena submitted to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy a report stating that the Mayor of Tirnavos, Larissa, and the cooperatives of the Municipality of Tirnavos, applicants for the settlement of a problem of waterfall observed in the region through the integration of this damage into the ELGA process. SYRIZA MP Mr.Michen Michelogannakis submitted to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs a report stating that the National Federation has provided a memorandum on the rights of the autistic spectrum on observations, proposals, requests for a multi-legislative plan of education, provisions of special treatment, highlighting the Federation's proposals, in order to correct the injustices and omissions created in previous years. SYRIZA MEP Mr Fotini Vakis submitted to the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights a report that the Association of Judges of Corfu highlights the need for direct recruitment of personnel on the basis of identification. The MP of the New Democracy Mr. George Stylos submitted to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a report stating that the Federation of Tourism Accommodation and Business alternative forms of tourism Epirus "Xenos Couple" by letter presents a request to avoid tax evasion from the illegal accommodation of the region. The MP of the New Democracy Mr. George Stylos submitted to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a report requesting the financing of a circular node on the National Road of Antirios - Ioannina in the city of Arta. Party MP Potami Kyriakos Charakides submitted to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy a report, which calls for the intervention of the Ministry and the relevant bodies in the creation of a potato plant burial site. The Members of the Communist Party of Greece etc. Stavros Tassos, Diamanto Manolakos and Emmanouil Synthrakis submitted to the Ministries of Finance and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a report requesting the upgrading of the office of taxpayers, which operates on the island. The MEP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis submitted to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy a report stating the need for the adoption of criteria for the distribution of pastures and calls for the adoption of a system guaranteeing equality in the treatment of livestock farmers throughout the country. The MP of the New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis submitted to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a report stating that the Mayor of Elafonissos presents a document on the anchorage of ships in the bay of the Vatican Laconia. Deputy Prime Minister of the New Democracy and Fourth Vice-President of the Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis submitted to the Ministry of Finance a report stating that the Panhellenic Federation of Postal Associations submits a document, which refers to the amendment of the legal framework for the operation of the ELTA. The MPs of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, Christos Katsotis and Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos submitted to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction a report that the OTA Workers' Association of the Prefecture of Ioannina calls for the interruption of the illegal demand for payment of retrospectives following the sharp decrease in their wages. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Dimas submitted to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs a report which calls for the establishment of a special education and training school. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Stergios Giannakis filed a petition to the Ministry of Health with which the Medical Association of Preveza presents a letter listing the problems and symptoms of the operation, which exist in the local health unit of the EMCDDA. Parliamentarians Nikolaos Moraitis and Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos of the KKE filed a petition to the Ministry of Interior and Management of Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism and Production Reconstruction, according to which the Citizens' Movement of Agraphs calls for immediate funding for damage caused by the floods that hit the area. Parliamentarian Christos Bukouros of New Democracy filed a petition to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction requesting the extension of a deadline to be subject to the settlement of debts under Law4321/2015 for mountain and island municipalities. Parliamentarians Nikolaos Moraitis, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos and George Lambroulis of the KKE reported to the Ministry of Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Culture, education and Religious Affairs, according to which the inhabitants of Abruzzi protested the problems that were created in the construction and operation of the hydroelectric dam at the location of Dafnozonaras - Sandi requesting all necessary measures to solve them. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Emmanouil Syndrakis, Diamantos Manolakos and Stavros Tassos of the KKE reported to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism that the Federation of Professional Artists and Traders of Heraklion Prefecture calls for immediate autopsy in order to provide financial compensation to those affected by the disasters that hit the law and the restoration of damage caused by the floods. Congressman Achaias Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos of Independent Greeks testified: - report to the Prime Minister and the Ministers of State for the fight against corruption. - a report to the Ministers for Finance, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on a complaint made by a citizen, recording claims of corruption, illegal actions and irregularities in the Parga Sub-Secretary and public services based in Thesprotia, requesting the reimbursement of such responsibilities. - a reference to the Ministries of Economic and National Defence, according to which a citizen stresses the need for an official circular to apply a judicial decision in favour of an officer of the Hellenic Navy. - a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which Patras's newspaper "GOOMI" denounces by means of its publication the conversion of a road into an illegal bazaar in Saint Patras. - a report to the Minister for Finance and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, according to which the newspaper "GNOMH" of Patras re-publishes requests from former employees of the Achaean Cooperative Bank. - a reference to the Ministries of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Production Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Federation of Ecological Organisations "ALKYON" through a publication in the Patras newspaper "GOOM" highlights the issue of the transport of hazardous waste to the ports of the Corinthian Gulf. - a reference to the Minister for Health, according to which Patras's newspaper "GOOM" raises the question of the payment of workers' newspapers at the Karamandanium Hospital. - a reference to the Minister of Health, according to which the Association of Library Scientists of Greece formulates views and suggestions on the licensing of trainees. - a reference to the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, according to which the Association of Police Officers of Ioannina protests against the failure to award excellence to officers of the Ioannina. Madam President, we have finished reading the petitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. I have the honour to inform the House of the Annual Questions Bulletin of Friday 5 June 2015. A. Current Questions to the First Cycle (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Davakis, on his excellent report. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 260/25-5-2015 topical question of the Achaea MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy about the inability of Achaia's fruit producers to sell their products. 3. The 254/22-5-2015 topical question of Mr Alexandros Hadjimitriou, MP, towards the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the proportion of the distribution of pastures throughout the country. 4. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the problems of apple growers in the Municipality of Agia, Larissa. 5. The Question No 252/20-5-2015 by MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the implementation of the decisions of the Regulatory Authority of Energy and the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission and in the case of ‘LARCO SA’. 6. The 266/26-5-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the progress of public-private partnerships (PPC) for waste management. B. Current Questions to the Second Cycle (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 274/26-5-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the Government's actions to safeguard Elias' agricultural income affected by the catastrophic weather phenomena. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 270-26-5-2015 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the timely and fair compensation of the affected farmers of Elias Prefecture from the intense weather phenomena. 3. Evangelos Diamantopoulou, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, asked the question by MP Kastorias of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Diamantopoulou, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the disruption of the ecological equilibrium of the Orestiada Lake (Castoria) from the existence and reproduction of fur animals. 4. The question asked by MP Kavala of New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the extension of the quartz protection network in rural areas of the Kavala Prefecture. 5. The 231-18-5-2015 topical question by Congressman Pireas of the River Mr. Nicholas Orphanou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the restoration of injustice for the owners of photovoltaic roofs. 6. The question by No 243/19-5-2015 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on measures to be taken on bluetongue in the country's livestock. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The current question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay of the meeting of the Central Board for Environmental Authorisation (CSDP) to approve environmental conditions of certain projects and activities. 8. The 244/19-5-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance on the payroll of the permanent employees of OPEKEPE. 9. The 206/12-5-2015 topical question by MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay in the payments to the cooperatives of the lower Neuroscope of Drama Prefecture from the Green Fund. 10. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning the recourse to the justice of television stations for decisions of the Minister of State, on the basis of which they were charged with retroactive frequency charges. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by Mr Georgios Amyras, Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Amyras, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, regarding Greece's participation in European policies to reduce pollutants, both from the new and existing lignite plants. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 1402/1-4-2015 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Diaras to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on measures to protect forests and forest land and the delay in the suspension of forest maps. 3. The question asked by Congressman II of Athens, Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, about the commitments made by the Government on environmental and energy issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under No 264/26-5-2015 of the First Circuit of the Ietalo-Carnania Coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of Health, on the subsistence of the health structures in the Prefecture of Itoloacarnania. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mrs Triantafel has the floor for two minutes to develop her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am really happy. Finally, a question arises which could not be answered during the previous parliamentary term. In the Memorandum of Understanding, we all know that the social barbarity of health poverty has increased, as well as the desperation and insecurity of the vulnerable groups, but more and more, unfortunately, of the Greek population, more and more citizens, especially when they had a serious health problem, has insulted and insulted the dignity of all of us. We drove to demolition health structures. The reduction in public expenditure continued unsuccessful and in 2015. There was a 11% reduction. These reductions each year in health budgets led to a subsidization of all health units and a deterioration in their function, at the same time as the private sector. We pointed out, as SYRIZA and rightly so, that depreciation of public health was a conscious political choice of all the previous neoliberal and memorandum governments to pass the "fillets" of health services in the private sector. This does not, in my view, jeopardise the country's health and public health, but literally puts social cohesion at risk, but democracy itself. It could not be an exception to this latitude, the Eotolokarnania Prefecture. There's a subjugation of his structures. I would remind you that it is the largest county in the country, with an extremely difficult geographical relief, with an extremely dangerous road network. It has two hospitals, in Agrini and Messolong, and it has ten health centers. It's all tragically subordinated and it's all decommissioning. There are typical examples. Unfortunately, the most characteristic and the most urgent one, I would say, to solve a problem is the fact that there is a cardioological function throughout the county. And she needs immediate treatment. So the first thing I would like to ask you is when - and I want a specific timetable - there will be recruitment. Let me just remind you that for over seven days a month there is no cardiologist on a county where over two hundred and fifty thousand people live. So I would like you to tell me when they will be recruited. And they must be done immediately. I'm putting cardio first. In the second part of the question, I will develop all the other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, I think the analysis is absolutely acceptable to the state of the health system and to the political justification for this very grim reality, which is currently experiencing the health system, the workers in the system and, above all, the citizens. I think we agree with the descriptions and conclusions. The issue is what we can do in this difficult budgetary situation, in order, as a priority, to strengthen social cohesion, to alleviate a very large part of society that has been affected, particularly in this area, namely, health care, and how to ensure the survival of public structures. This is the great challenge for us, of course, and with the need for radical institutional interventions, which will reorganise public care on a different basis, without the distortions and diseases of the past. I think that especially the province's structures have been at a much worse end, because most of them had shortages and medical and other personnel and before the crisis. And, obviously, this levelling-up intervention, which has taken place in recent years, has increased the inequalities and expanded the deficits that existed. In the area of yours - if you see the evidence - there is a false picture. In other words, it seems that on the basis of organic positions there is a satisfactory rate of cover. This, however, corresponds to an organization that captures a much smaller part of the current operation of the hospital than the developed beds. That is why I consider that a crucial issue is to ensure further strengthening of the hospital is to have a reform of the agency. There is a corresponding problem in all the institutions of most hospitals in Greece. The Ministry's priority in the next period is to reshape them, capture the real functions, departments, clinics, laboratories, which today offer services to the world and provide a development perspective. The issue of staffing, especially with cardiologists, is very critical. Unfortunately, efforts in the past did not work. For example, I have heard that they were announced this year - now in the first quarter of 2015 - two subsidiary cardiologist positions, but unfortunately not covered, without any interest. And that's the big problem. You know that at this time, while there is a political will by the government to strengthen the public health system, to stop the process of disorganisation and dismantling it, unfortunately due to the climate of the previous period, due to the great leakage of scientific potential to the outside and, above all, of course, because wages and working conditions have deteriorated greatly in the public system, there is no interest in young doctors in meeting these needs. We, in cooperation with the 6th IGC, have a plan for direct and exceptional reinforcement of the structures of your prefecture and with permanent staff - very soon, I believe, in June, we will call a permanent cardiologist's post - and with an ancillary staff of various categories. We will also use the five-month social benefits, through the Ministry of Labour, to cover, as far as possible, even in this flexible form of work, certain urgent needs of the system. I therefore believe that we need a very structured effort, with planned steps, so that all public structures, in particular those in the province, which are renowned for the need to strengthen them, can function and provide reliable services in the world today. I believe that with the cooperation of the administrations of the ICMs and tomorrow's administrations in hospitals and, above all, with the honesty and support of human resources, which in fact, in very difficult circumstances, still holds the health system up, we will be able to meet the most urgent needs, particularly in this critical area, of cardiologists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u8	Mrs. Triantafyl has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I must tell you that, in fact, after the interconnection of the two bodies of Mesologo and Agrinio Hospitals - since you mentioned it, for the false image that is given to Ieto-Carnania, probably elsewhere - only in plastics, i.e. actually by moves, the needs of the new organization are covered both by medical and nursing staff. As a result, the patients themselves - especially the Arginium Hospital, which is new building, but has no staff - to characterize it as a hotel unit. I will insist on some elements, saying that in both hospitals there are huge deficiencies, not only in cardiology - this is probably the most clearing thing, because you understand as a doctor what the role of cardiologists in hospitals is - but also in medical, surgical and microbiological laboratories and in the artificial kidney unit. I do not have time to mention - but I am sure you know - what is happening in health centres. As SYRIZA we have proposed the need for the existence and complete operation of primary health care. The primary health care in the Prefecture of Iotalokarnania is literally found in red. I could mention other examples: The only nephrologist who served at the Messology Hospital, has been invited since the summer of 2014 to cover on-calls at the respective unit of Agrinio, where he has frightening deficiencies and essentially not just fails, but tends to close it. I have to tell you that the artificial unit at Agrinio Hospital when it serves ninety-five patients on a permanent basis, two out of two, and everything else that comes from the emergency. There are still enclosures in the cardinal of Agrinio and many other issues that could be further raised. However, I want to dwell on the political issue of health. I think that the current government does not allow - and it should not at all allow - the logic that has reached the country in today's deadlock, namely, credit and then reconstruction and development. I think the Greeks have given great struggles for health issues - after 2010 mainly - against international loan sharks and have made their choices. They've rejected the rajadism and dirty political game that's been playing on his back for so many years. I believe that the Greek people understand that the negotiation is part of a particular war, which is currently taking place among the most important expressions of international financial capital, which, in the end, only agree that any attempt to reconstruct the country by the new Greek Government is a unilateral action. I'm not the first one to say that the National Health System is getting sick. It's been a long time. And I would conclude that there would really be a risk of being in a coma if the Ministry's political leadership hadn't changed. Part of this reality and the causes of this situation can be said to be subscribing, namely sub-financing. In my opinion, subsecution means that we are driving patients directly and very methodically in the private sector. But that's not the whole reality. Even in times of funding, patients were again putting their hand in the pocket or having to travel miles to find their health and in many cases they were actually sold out to heal them. All this was known by the political leadership and put it aside. In my opinion, he was trying to cure them by more liberalising structures, since only so did packages come and - you will allow me to say - only that is how we became business, so that we could have the buildings and machines to sit. However, because I think that above all there is a specific reality, which requires immediate treatment, I believe that the Ministry of Health must be truly alongside the struggles and the struggle of our people and that it must proceed immediately to the next stage of what you have said, of recording the problems, which are action and immediate intervention. We must not, under any circumstances, and I will insist on this, allow and allow the Ministry itself to allow the citizens of our country the logic that I have mentioned, namely, credit, agreement and then reconstruction. I will insist on a specific timetable that you have set. Intake of a cardiologist is not enough. I have to say this, because I really know the situation in Atalo-Carnania, as I am sure you know it. It takes recruitment - and we can talk about it later, unfortunately I do not have the time to expand - certain specialists in medicine and nursing staff. And I think it should be done immediately, because health is a public good. We've always defended that. It's an ID issue for both SYRIZA and the Left. And I think it's time to prove it the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u10	Mr Minister, before I give you the floor, you will allow me to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and four educational attendants from the 9th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u11	I agree again - I have to say it - with policies, in particular, findings. At this time, these days, the government and the country - I think - is giving a very tough political battle within the institutions of Europe, on the subject and on the grounds of another equal and decent position of citizens, society and the country within Europe. Because for the first time since the crisis, the dominant line of austerity and neoliberal compression of labour and the social state has been challenged by a democratically elected government, which is why this very tough political debate has been taking place these days. In fact, Greece and the government question the doctrine of the one-way austerity within Europe. We question the naval saying that there is no alternative. That is why, in these days, the pressures are increasing, the demands are increasing and it is difficult for us to have an honest, decent, economically viable and reassuring agreement for society, an agreement which will enable the government to take measures to strengthen social cohesion, support public goods, as you quite rightly said is the area of public care. We have therefore made it clear that we are discriminatory in favour of public health and social welfare and that the need to tackle health poverty in our country, to address the humanitarian crisis that has a very important aspect of it in the field of health, cannot be negotiated. And we cannot allow anyone to see these necessary interventions as unilateral actions or moves in financial derailment. We're perfectly clean on this. We have said that we need to ensure universal access for citizens, to address the huge social problem of de-insurance and insufficient health care for uninsured people. We have promoted a new ministerial decision on this field. We have announced an emergency aid plan for the human resources system, which will be implemented gradually during the year. We have already declared the first nine hundred, some, permanent, nursing and paramedical posts. We facilitate people's access to public structures, by abolishing the ticket, by five, and we have a design that prioritises the support of the National Health System and, above all, of its human potential. The major challenge at this time is investment in human resources. There have been several investments in infrastructure and equipment. There are problems there too and there must be a plan to replace, reform and improve these infrastructures, where there is a delay. I think, however, that the crucial issue is to ensure human resources sufficient of all specialties in a short time. You know very well that, in the way in which the recruitment and placement process operates, this unfortunately cannot happen immediately. As I have said before, we are making use of all the available institutional tools we have to meet urgent needs. The big bet for us is, of course, that there should also be sustainable funding for the health system. We have also raised with our partners in Europe the question of reforming hospital budgets. The hospitals cannot operate this year with this austerity budget, which has been approved. It needs to be amended so that we can ensure that they are supplied with the necessary material during the year and, above all, to cover the additional human resources we want to move forward. This is a huge political issue in my view. It calls for interventions in also waste chests, a provocative of demand and corruption that exist in the health system. It requires interventions to control the demand for services. But it requires, above all, a political will to redistribute wealth in the country and create budgetary conditions, in order to give priority to public care and the social state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament on 2-6-2015, in accordance with articles 86 of the Constitution, 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and 1 and 4 of the n. 3126/2003 ‘Prime liability of the Ministers’, as is the case, criminal case-law created following the 18-7-2013 written complaint by the private maritime taxi of Hydra and concerning the former Minister of Shipping and the Aegean Sea, Konstantinos Musuroulis, concerning the alleged offence of the breach of duty on a continuing basis concerning the use of the pier in Metohi thermisia of the Municipality of Ermionida. The second, under number 271/26-5-2015, timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the internal posting of payments and the planning of the liquidation of public debts to the private sector, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. We will now discuss the third with number 255/25-5-2015 top-level question of the first-round question by Congressman Larissa of Potamio Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health on the path of psychiatric reform. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr Barriott, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. The subject of psychiatric reform is more or less well-known at the outset. I will not be far behind what "SYCHOLGIS" is and the program of dematerialisation and dematerialisation. Very quickly I will recall that it is a process of reintegration into society by means of coordinated actions, which are already in the final phase of decommissioning. In other words, there is a quite distant prehistoric. There is a prehistoric history that unfortunately characterises it as failures, waste, mismanagement and too long delays in its implementation. There is a waste of time, but in some cases - you will allow me to say - and a fragrance of scandal in the way in which this package has been managed, so that today there are huge deficiencies, that there are no structures, such as mental health centres, hostels and, in general, mental health structures in primary care, as foreseen by the programme. Thus, the psychiatric areas of general hospitals, where there are and to the extent that they exist and are manned and stalked, and the burden of falling into external hospitals and psychiatric hospitals. Even worse, in recent years, we have not even known what has happened and what has happened, because since 2008 there has been no evidence. EUROSTAT is not being informed, as has so far been done by the services of the "SYCHOLGIS" programme of progress and procedures in patients, etc., so that we are actually in the dark. At the same time, I would remind you that there is a memorandum of cooperation signed by the Greek Government by Mr. Lykourenzo in 2013 with the European Union, which provides, among other things, that by the end of this year the special psychiatric hospitals should have closed down the four out of the nine that have remained in operation. In order to do this, it should have been the previous one that we said it was not done, namely that the previous phase of reform with the structures within the community, primary care, hostels, etc. has, unfortunately, been very far behind. Minister, I heard you recently developing a conference at which we both were, what we were here, I would say, what should be done or what should be done if there was unfettered funding, or whether it would have been used as it should be, that is, how psychiatric reform should be organised from now on. I have also heard you today make a basic political position, which I respect, although I disagree on many individual points, on how the health reform should be carried out. I would therefore like us to save some time today and focus on clear timetables based on available funds and direct policies and to answer - to the extent that they can be answered - concrete questions. The first question is whether it has been assessed or whether there is a process of assessment of the course to date, whether there is an assessment of what has happened, how much it has been, and why this little has not been done, whether the objectives of the national action plan for mental health have been achieved and to what extent, whether there are responsibilities and whether they should be attributed. The main question which is on the agenda - and with the dismissal of the Commander of the "Physical Hospital" - is whether the procedure for the closure of the four psychiatric hospitals, which is scheduled to take place within the year, will be completed, postponed or never done. Also, if there is a change in the schedule of the memorandum between Lykourenjou and Andor on mental health, and what are these, although there is an updated plan for the distribution of services and structures in society and in the territory, so that declaring can be accompanied by the dispersion of patients throughout the territory and, if possible, as close as possible to the actual homes, to the points of reference of these patients and not randomly, for example from the "Psychiatrik" in Piraeus, regardless of their origin, etc. I reserve my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you. Thank you for the timely question. I think it is a good opportunity to have a debate on this very sensitive part of psychiatric reform and the care of mentally ill people in our country, who have increased during the crisis. This is epidemiological and bibliographically documented. The crisis has increased people's vulnerability to mental illness. The prevalence of depression has increased and we know that very well, it has more than tripled from 2008 to 2013. Depression has become a major public health problem in Greece, as has the increase in suicidality and all the incidents of a great mental pressure that people have experienced, especially the part of society that has been poor and socially marginalized in recent years. Therefore, needs and demands have increased, at a time when the public mental health system was in retreat and disorganization. Steps have been taken in recent years with the promotion of psychiatric reform and it has been right. But these steps were found at a time. There has been no development of sectoralisation - and I think that was the critical deficit - of services. In other words, the distribution and design of services from all over the spectrum from acute treatment to primary care, prevention and community psychiatric care were not developed as originally planned. Also, the levelling-off of expenditure in recent years has led to a great retreat. Unfortunately this subject of psychiatric reform has also made use of the Memorandum as a pretext for promoting a policy of austerity, public spending cuts, labour insecurity in the human resources of the system and, in any case, for adapting to a model of declining public services. That is why I think that the big issue today is to redesign and evaluate, as you quite rightly said, our mental health policy. We need to reconstruct everything from the outset, and obviously we are not bound by the timetables of the previous pact, which were too pressing and in practice proved inappropriate. So there is no question of violent, let's say, fragmentation essentially of special psychiatric hospitals and violence, say, abolition of departments, closure of clinics and elimination of beds, to the extent that services have not been developed in the community, decommissioning hostels, structures that ensure continuity in care. This is the crucial issue for us. We agree on the basic idea of psychiatric reform, which is the transition from the immunity model to a model of community and social psychiatric care and disease prevention. This is, in our view, the crucial issue, which, in order to implement it, wants a new project, which is under way. We are forming a negotiating group at the Ministry, which will set new foundations for this agreement, and will renegotiate the terms and timetables and the operating conditions and especially the funding of the next period. The crucial issue, therefore, is the change of psychiatric example, with emphasis on primary health care, prevention and community psychiatric care, always respecting patients' rights and ensuring continuity of care. This plan is under way. Meetings with the relevant institutions of Europe will begin in the next few months to relaunch this debate. We have done well in the design of recruitment and permanent and subsidiary staff the needs of the public structures of this period, in particular psychiatric clinics in the province, which are subordinated. We want to increase their ability to retain incidents, so that there is no greater burden in the on-call, especially in the Lecade, for which we have also started a debate with all the directors of psychiatric clinics in Attica, so that we can reorganise it and better allocate the weight of acute incidents, especially involuntary hospitals and public prosecutors, which you know very well is 60% of imports today. And this framework needs reform. In any case, I think, in general terms, that I gave you the outline of the policy in which we want to move. We want to complete and there to be a real deepening of psychiatric reform, without reasonable austerity and cuts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Barriots has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I'm afraid you did exactly what I asked you not to do. In other words, you mentioned a general political framework, without a timetable, without a programme and without commitments. I have asked you - and I will have to repeat this to you - to answer whether the psychiatric hospitals will be closed now or in the future, if it is part of the Ministry's political intention to close the 'Physical Hospital', in due course, even under conditions, even if within politics it is to close the 'Physical Hospital'. I am obliged to highlight and ask whether this will be a political decision of the Ministry or a decision of the Association of Workers at the "Physical Hospital", which these days seems to have gained particular powers, is changing presidents at will. I hope that it is not the next commander of the hospital to choose the union, since the previous one, according to the confession of your communication, the Ministry's press release, was released because of the disruption of working peace by the occupation of the workers' union. I repeat the questions, then. Next and important are the recordings. Will ELSTAT, the Greek Statistical Office, be involved, which seems to be necessary in the recording of data which does not provide the PSYCHARGIS programme? Well or badly, funding - you admitted it yourself - means Europe. I do not think that there is any other source of funding for psychiatric reform from now on and beyond European funds, and that is to be disbursed, in addition to the political negotiation - which I hope for the best, because I agree with you that the budgets provided for by the agreement with the partners - also need tangible results, need to be assessed, and we need to record what has been done so far and how what has to be done from now on. If sectoralisation and decommissioning are what is to be done, I would like another matter together with these two, and I would like an answer. I am referring to the KOSPEs, to the social cooperatives with limited responsibility, which I think is a very important initiative - very intelligent, if you like, an initiative - which has been implemented for many years and which has been implemented in the well-known Greek way. It is also because of the economic cuts, but it is also because of the way in which they are being developed, they have various problems, they need support. I think that you, too, agree that they need support. I'll come back here. It's a good political context. We all agree that we also need funding and support. Is there a timeframe? Is there a structured policy, even in the near future? I fear that we will refer everything to the future and that is not good. Time is not neutral. You said earlier that we all agree on how the horizontal cuts, the dramatic cuts, have impacted on the health system. But the health system will allow me to point out that it is continuing to get worse, that there is a deteriorating situation in hospitals in the last four months, because no substantial action has been taken. I would point out that the only thing I've been reading these days is that the SYRIZA Trikalon Prefecture Committee went to the bars, arguing about who will be the Commander of Trikala Hospital. I inform you that today the Larissa County Committee is on the railings, confronting Mr Karabacca's transfer from Volos's "Achilian Hospital" to the "University Hospital", which had been headless for many weeks, as you know, so that he cannot pay any on-calls, because there was no one to sign. I would like to say and point out that there is an inertia, which acts negatively on a system for which we agree that you have received it on the side of the disaster. But it stays there and starts to grow toward the cliff. I would like to point out that we are listening to bills that were submitted by your Ministry for Medicine and Health in April and were transferred for May. We're going to end June, but substantial legislative intervention from the Ministry of Health we haven't seen yet. I don't want to question anyone's intentions. I think you have the best intentions, and I believe you honestly. But what is being done at the moment in a very critical area, in the public health sector, is called 'inaction', in addition to the requirements - let me say the word - of the governors, which have not been completed in five months. I would remind you that the first "bullying" - let me speak - took place on the day after tomorrow by the Minister. He asked for the resignations of all hospital governors. We are in a process in which various vulnerabilities are made, such as the dismissal of Mr Theodorakis, in the way he was, at the 'Psycian Hospital'. We do not have a definitive solution. We are now learning that in 15 days there will be an amendment for the definitive removal of old commanders. I would like to say that such an amendment as the first legislative measure of the present government does not honour you. We expect substantial legislative actions to save the health system, which are not coming. I repeat - and I conclude with this - that time is not neutral. The four months that passed without substantial intervention create problems both in mental health and in the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u18	Mr Minister, here you have the floor for three minutes, but I have to say that time has not been kept, neither by my colleague nor by you in the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u19	For God's sake, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u20	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u21	You said to tell you a certain timeframe. The timetable of the current Pact is at the end of the year, i.e. 31-12-2015. Obviously, long before the end of this timetable, the Ministry's political leadership will have ensured a new agreement, the general guidelines I have presented. We want the psychiatric reform to be completed. We want to go beyond the logic of asylum, but in a way that ensures continuity of care, that there is no violent interference in dealing with the health problems of mental patients, and of course with respect for the needs of workers in the public health system, who at this time really give a very hard fight in a very special and psycho-corruption sector, such as this. My dear colleague, the danger is that we have avoided the sudden death of special psychiatric hospitals - that was the previous plan, a step unprepared and, in our view, very dangerous and problematic - to have a regression in the logic of asylum, to the safety of the psychiatric service with its well-known logic. You know, besides, that there is always an intrinsic trend in these systems to resist transformations and reforms. We, therefore, obviously have the view that psychiatric reform must go ahead. It is not a'reformation or not' issue, but on what terms. The terms will therefore be discussed and negotiated on the basis of a very well-processed and serious plan, to which the most honest and reliable powers - and scientific and political - will contribute. The position we have taken with regard to our country's representative at the World Health Organisation on the part of mental health, I think it is particularly valuable. It is Dimitris Ploumbidis, the President of the Hellenic Psychiatric Society, who I think enjoys scientific recognition in our country and internationally, but also has a respectable path of social and political struggles. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] With this manpower, we will move on. We do not intend to make use of people who only care about themselves are to impose a policy without dialogue and consensus with the workers. We're not making moves because we're being pushed by the trade unionists, as you say. The situation in the Daphne had escaped. I think there was a deficit in the legalisation of the previous administration, and that is why we considered the immediate replacement of this commander necessary. There is neither a pogrom - you know it very well - in the area of hospital administrations, the opposite exists. There is a "bullying" by commanders appointed by the previous political period, who today continue to be dissatisfied, intervene favourably in hospitals, create problems in the proper functioning and working climate throughout Greece and undermine the government's policy. That is why we will, of course, aim at an initiative in the near future which will enable us to replace hospital governors quickly. We do not go with reasonable leap from a party army of hospital administrations or the state, you know that very well. The choices we made in the PPP administrations were to put people in public care, who are trying in this dissolved landscape to make the right moves to enhance elementarily and to ensure his well-being. It must also be clear that the part of NGOs and private psychiatric clinics is an evaluation area and very close monitoring and the quality and cost of the services they offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u22	Just these? The public bodies don't?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u23	Of course. Obviously, this is also about public structures. But since the private sector usually had an immunity all over the previous period, I would point out that. I conclude by saying that for us the issue of psychiatric reform is not just a matter of humanism or compassion against people vulnerable and weak. It is a matter of quality health services, it is a matter of social sensitivity in a society, it is a matter of equality between people and it is, after all, a question of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will now move on to the first with 265/26-5-2015 topical question of the second question of Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Health, concerning the lack of staff of the EKA in Samos and Ikaria. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much. Although we have a general squeeze on health structures with targeted policies, which has developed quite a few of the previous speakers, I will stick to the problems created by the lack of staff and managers in the EKA in the three islands of our prefecture, Samos, Ikaria and the Forens, islands which have an extremely difficult road network, with long distances and small possibilities of bridging these distances. Although we have a general squeeze on health structures with targeted policies, which has developed quite a few of the previous speakers, I will stick to the problems created by the lack of staff and managers in the EKA in the three islands of our prefecture, Samos, Ikaria and the Forens, islands which have an extremely difficult road network, with long distances and small possibilities of bridging these distances. The ambulances operate symposiums, mainly due to a lack of staff, but lately and due to a lack of fuel, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Samos operates an ambulance. One of the ambulances is substantiated, so there is a lot of time covering the possible incident. And given that we have the start of the tourist season and that the accidents are increasing, I would like your answer to when and to what extent that staff coverage can be provided, so that the second ambulance in the second city of Samos, Karlovasi, can also work on the second ambulance in Ikaria, to cover emergency needs there as well. At this point, I would like to point out that the role of ambulance in the Forens, on the third island of a thousand five hundred inhabitants, plays agricultural cars.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Sevastakis. Mr. Xanthos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Obviously in this landscape of dissolution and collapse of public care, the part of urgent pre-privileged care and the EAW is very critical. There are huge needs. You know very well that the ambulance fleet is outdated. For seven years there has been a competition for some ninety ambulances, which has been blocked through a process of constant objections by companies that had participated in the competition. The government tried to unlock him. Half of it has been launched, that is, ninety of these ambulances have been awarded, and I believe that in the next few months there will be a renewal of the fleet allocated to the various regions. We are trying to find a solution for the rest, but it is not a simple matter. The Public Procurement Authority shall intervene. This scenery is too difficult. And we want what we want to do to be transparent and not handle anyone to blame us for going to serve individual corporate interests. At the same time, you know that there is a procedure - I think it is four to five years - and it is a competition in progress for two hundred rescuers and ambulance crews. After many and great efforts, and that is at the end of it. The APA has taken the provisional tables and the assurance we have is that they will be placed in June. The effort that will be made is part of this human potential to meet the urgent needs of the island, ahead of the tourist season that is very increased. Of these positions - and we are talking about permanent staff - are four crew seats for the Samos sector and two for Ikaria. I believe that this will be a significant support with permanent staff in these areas. You know very well that since last year, after the tragic incident, there has been a strengthening of the EAW sector in Samos. The information and the image I have from the EKAB is that today it is on a daily shift of two ambulances with aid that has been made - at least this morning's assurance in my final understanding and by the President of the EKA - and movements made from other regions, such as Athens and Thessaloniki. It is on a daily shift of two ambulances and on Ikaria it is covered with a second ambulance about half a month, while with the aid that will exist, they believe that they can also be covered with two ambulances. One will be at the Evangelos Health Center and the other at the hospital to meet the needs of Ikaria. Also, for the summer season there is an invitation from staff serving in other areas. It does this every year this summer the EKPB to go to cover for one, two months the tourist season. I think one has already been placed and in mid-June two others will go to Samos. So there's a concern to meet these urgent needs. In any case, in the context of the allocation of permanent staff - we have announced this plan of some four thousand posts pertaining to the whole country - there will also be special attention to the EAW, so that there will be gradually a cover with permanent staff to stop these very critical problems. The fleet's old. There are even problems in spare parts. And, unfortunately, in some areas, there is also the problem you have said with fuel. We have made an effort in the past few days and a further EUR 1 million grant has been approved for the operational needs of the EMCDDA. We are trying to alleviate this bad day-to-day operation of this very critical service as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Since the notice of 7K/2014 and the interim results, we have four ambulance crew seats in the Samos field. However, for a variety of reasons - ageing and others - four people are inactivated. So we stay the same. I'd say this piece of staffing is very serious. I hope that this information you give me on the extraordinary disbursement of an amount will be resolved. I would say the same about Ikaria. The plus two people that we never describe do not cover at least nine of the full on all the patient's staffing shifts. The main problem, especially Ikaria where some donations have been donated, is not the vehicle. It's the staff. I think the conditions established create a disproportionately rapid ageing and impairment. It also seems that there is a total stimulus in the administrative system to give solutions. I would also like to ask you whether the OAED programmes can be used. Because there are certified rescuers, who are simply unemployed. They could, at least during stress periods, join as crews and serve the ambulances. Also, in order not to keep the documentation alone, to combine - even though it is outside the shell of the question - the rescue structure and an overall collapse of infrastructure that creates continuous accidents. We've got dead, too. Especially in Samos, we have been killed by late or collapse of the infrastructures that cause accidents. It is therefore necessary to combine the care of staffing and rapid and urgent reinforcement of the structures of the EAFRD with the collapse of the infrastructure which concerns the operational needs of our islands. Secondly, we should look at it together with internal weakening and hospital structures and other primary structures, where this creates a bad dispersion. Therefore, the EAW is also coming to cover the lack of spread of health services produced by the crisis and the multiple choices of the previous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u30	Before I give you the floor, Minister, I would like to say that from a university such precision as to keep time and to develop the question, but also in the reply, at least I have met it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. The labels are crucial. We cannot allow an image to be perpetuated, especially in the tourist regions of the country, which welcome a very large volume of visitors and play a very important role in the economy and in the development of our country as a whole. We cannot allow these tragic deficiencies to be perpetuated in this area, namely health in general, and in particular urgent pre-medical care. This also depends, of course, on the quality and staffing and the performance of the emergency departments in hospitals. This is a very critical link for the effectiveness of the system. The next stage is a reliable aerospace system, which will allow for the possibility of safe and timely disseminating the incidents that require specialist hospital treatment at the major hospital centers. We need to see this system again from the outset. Our intention is to have a new institutional intervention that starts from the emergency premeditated care to the treatment of the incident inside the hospital and the intensive hospitalization. I think that the EAW must be given special care - I said it beforehand - and will have it. We are also in agreement with the administration of the EKA for the more rational distribution of human resources today and the material resources that this organization has, which are too limited. I believe that, with the completion of the supply of the new ambulances and the implementation of the recruitments we have said, there will be a breath. But obviously, because the system is ageing and there are constant withdrawals - this is about the public health system as a whole - the trend towards strengthening it with human resources needs to be strengthened. Human resources play the whole story. This must be the big social investment in this period, especially for public care. I think it is obvious that our political will to do this with consistency and design and studied steps, particularly strengthening the island regions, where the deficits and objective conditions of providing health services are much more difficult than mainland Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u32	More investment could be made in education and documentation and therefore move from staff services more quickly, more easily.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u33	He really wants a job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two teachers attendants from the 1st Primary School of Livadia. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second question will be discussed under number 1584/6-4-2015 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the problems of the Centre for the Health of Moors of the Municipality of Faistos Heraklion of Crete. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. As you said before, on 6 April we tabled a question on the tragic situation in the Centre for the Health of Moors of the Municipality of Faistos Heraklion. It has not been answered, which is why we brought it to plenary. We are calling for very specific and clear answers to the questions that we are asking, questions raised by the people of the region, concerning the subsistence of services, the reduction of funding and the major shortcomings of the health centre. This situation is depicted in the specific health centre, which leads to marginalisation - let me say no more, although the Greek language is rich, I have exhausted all the possible expressions I can say here -, undisturbed or let anyone say it as they wish. Despite the intensification of work, despite the ambitious efforts of the workers, the picture is absolutely dramatic. I will just say - and the Minister knows - that there are seventy-eight thousand staff in this area. Even the southern Rethymnon is catching up to the Spili. It's a very big area. In this area, then, there is no microbiologist, radiologist, gynaecologist, surgeon, orthopaedic. What kind of health center is this? The microbiological lab is down due to lack of reagents. There are shortcomings in staff, shortcomings in health and consumables. In the health center there is a pediatrician who on-calls at the Paediatric Clinic of the “Venezelian Hospital”, and is located only two, not more than three days. Of course, there is nothing to say about whether there are sections related to women and motherhood, while any preventive medical services are limited to the basics, namely vaccinations and PPP tests. As far as nursing staff are concerned, the question remains of the withdrawal of the three seconded nurses, whose stay at the Centre for the Health of Moires was extended for only one quarter. In addition, there is an ambulance driver, which covers only one shift and one traumatizer and also, there is an ambulance vehicle. Now, how this ambulance with a driver, with a traumatizer, can cover this whole area, I think the answer is given on its own. There is also a shortage of additional auxiliary staff. The doorman's on all the business. He can make the traumatizer, the nurse, the plumber, he can do everything in the name of their goodwill to contribute, with their good services in the health center. As far as cleanliness is concerned, there are two workers who work ten to twelve days without a day off and the situation will get worse, because in a few months' time they are retired. Doctors and nurses remain unpaid with their papers. In any case, we could list a great deal more. But questions are very specific and we are calling for a clear answer. Not to tell us that we're right, because you're not in Anti-Policy and you don't speak in election. You are a government and you must give clear answers. So, you're going to make the necessary recruitments of the permanent staff that you promised? You said you were going to publish three doctors for the Moiron Health Center, and three more for the Tymbaki District. You said it. So will these recruitments be carried out to fill all these posts at the Moirian Health Center? Secondly, will the State ensure full and adequate supply of the health centre with medicines, vaccines, health and consumables, reagents? Will workers be paid for unpaid on-calls? Will the payment of participation in medical and laboratory tests, medicines and treatments finally be abolished? Will there be free systemic and specialised student health monitoring? Every year children and students are struggling for getting a certificate for gymnastics. Can the Health Center contribute? What care will the Ministry take against this situation, so that all children are inoculated immediately and in a timely manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u37	My dear colleague, I think the picture you are presenting - we have said it too many times - is what actually exists. I don't think there's any evidence of exaggeration. There is a deception and a deterioration of the services in a, as you rightly pointed out, very densely populated area of Heraklion, which obviously in my view and, in the view of the Ministry's political leadership, would justify a more upgraded primary care structure, with better staffing and more specialities. Today, one of the fifteen rural doctors’ homes serves 12 and in June there will be an appointment of two other rural doctors. It has been chosen and we are in the final phase of appointment. With them there will certainly be a breath in the next period that is difficult because the population and needs of the region are increasing. Of the twenty-four organic positions that exist, they serve only five permanent doctors of the ESS - you know it very well - two general doctors, two dentists and a pediatrician. My dear colleague, the problem is that these three posts were declared plus three posts, namely three for the Centre for the Health of Moires and three for the Tymbaki Polypowerful Regional Medical Institute. Six appointments were made for auxiliary doctors, and unfortunately all six were barren. We'll reopen them. The point is, I have said before, that there should be a climate of scientific capacity in the country and, in particular, in young doctors, that the path of dismantling public care has been reversed, that there is a priority in strengthening the National Health System and that young children who have done very worthwhile studies in Greece can have a decent professional perspective in their country. This is, in my view, the crucial issue. Obviously, to do this, we need a grid of scientific incentives and social support. For wages at this stage, as you can imagine, it is difficult to discuss, even though we recognize the need. I think that at the end of the day this will ensure that we are able to provide sufficient and reliable staff for the National Health System. For the individual problems of the health centre, I will say first of all that there is a problem of stagnation in the building that we know about. There is a search in cooperation with self-government to find another place and to incorporate in a European programme the reconstruction, the creation of a new building for the Moires Health Centre. The treatment of ambulances is ensured by the local annex of the EKPB that is stationed in Moires. This covers the courses of the health centre incidents and not obviously the only guide and the only ambulance that works. In my opinion, there is a serious question of the reform of the agencies of all health centres, as is this one. It is impressive, in other words, that the body of the health centre is provided for five dentist positions and not a second position, say, microbiologist, so that there is a safety if for some reason someone leaves, the laboratory continues to operate and be efficient. Today there is an ancillary microbiologist. It was the only position that was covered by the subsidiary we have published. So there is an auxiliary microbiologist. Other specialities such as gynaecologists, cardiologists, or other specialties can be predicted in the reform of the organisation. That's what I think is the big deficit in primary care. There has never been a serious plan based on a health map. It all became fragmentary - let me say - and too many times customers, with the influence of landscapes and factories. We know that. We know how the system worked. I think we should go to another planning logic based on real and epidemiologically substantiated health needs of the population, with a reasonable democratic planning of health services and a fair distribution of human and material resources that are actually limited to the health system today. This unit will therefore be included in this aid plan in particular of primary care. We have explained that we want to reorganise the system mainly with emphasis on primary care, and I believe that gradually and with a view to these needs that you have shown will be addressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, seventeen students and students and three trainers from the Elementary School of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You happen to know if we are discussing a question by MP Heraklion Crete and the Cretan Deputy Minister for Health is answering. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u39	Let me also say hello to the children and the teachers. We dominate the Chamber, that is! Minister, the establishment plan of the Centre for Health of Moires provides for twenty-four posts of doctors of all specialties, of which eleven are general doctors. Of these eleven predicted general medicine has been covered one - that is my picture - and two curators have a place for agricultural doctors. I do not want to question any intention, but you say that you have declared six posts, which were barren. Of course! How is the other one going to go 50, sixty kilometers away to rent a house and take the crumbs he takes? You realize that here there are no motives. Here you are planning, in the context of your debate on the new agreement, to compress more the non-wage costs, reduce wages, cut health costs. It is not just that you personally create a favourable climate. And how do you create it personally? You know, "with words I build upper and lower." But here you're tearing down both high and high and low, taking the spoon from the previous government. Let me tell you that at the health center you have an organic position in Perama, there is a decision of the management of the health centre - and it was even sent by a document to the municipal council of the Municipality of Geropotamos - which says we are temporarily closing down the seven regional hospitals of the municipality. Why? Because there's no way it works. There's no staff, they don't have the means, they don't have the consumables, they have nothing. Your health center! Here you see that the thing is acidifying, it's not that simple. So forgive me, but words have absolutely no value. And I will tell you the other thing to see that you are not simply following a philosophical policy and intent. Of course, I don't know if all this is in your knowledge, but here we have photographic and rousphetological movements. So, tell me, did the two nurses who left the emergency services at Chania Hospital to go to the Kissamos Health Center, had they to leave? You know that? Why did they leave? The two security staff from the "Venezel Hospital" why did they leave? To go - he says - to maneuver the 7th PD. Is that how you're gonna make the redistributions? But even rationally to be reallocating, I'm sorry, but it's poverty management, since this is where the thing has arrived to the unprecedented. Deficiencies are very important. The government, Minister - and let you say that the European Union cannot be a one-way street - serves a policy which leads to an anti-grassroots package of EUR 6 billion, which provides for a squeeze of non-wage costs. Did the five-and-a-half-dollar make us happy? Well done. But you know what this is about? Five-and-a-half euros is 20 million euros. At the same time every year workers put their hand in the pocket and give EUR 400 million private health costs. You announced at the beginning five thousand recruitments, while the real needs are thirty thousand - twenty-five thousand nurses and five thousand doctors. The five thousand you put them down to nine hundred and then seven hundred fifty. So this government sees health as a cost. This is Rhodes, behold, and fuck! Two proposals for legislation have been tabled by the Communist Party of Greece for the abolition of the memorandum, implementing laws, for the reintroduction of EUR 751, etc. Bring it to the House and get up and vote. Difference if you wish from the government, since you think the European Union is not a one-way street. That is why we say that the universal public free health system requires a conflict with the European Union, a conflict with monopolies, a conflict with all those business groups that are all like "brows" from above and are preparing to multiply their diagnostic centres across Greece. Yesterday I was at the Kissamos Health Center, probably the largest health center in the world. The diagnostic centers from Paleochora to Chania have been flooded there. You know that very well. This government is serving precisely this policy and the people must not be left with crucifix hands. No time credit should be given, no waiting, but no overturning of this policy and all of the European Union's policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u41	I did not say that I did not regard the European Union as a one-way path. We say that we do not regard as a one-way to our country's stay in a Europe of austerity, the dismissal of social conquests and the reduction of workers' rights. That's what we're claiming. We are calling for another, equal position within Europe, with the ability of peoples to decide democratically on the social priorities that each society and every country must set. This is the very tough political conflict that is currently taking place. This is not just about our country. It is also a question of Europe's own future. We have said that if Europe itself continues in this authoritarian and undemocratic way to meet the needs of societies it is doomed to failure and dissolution. That is why I believe that at this time, this very tough political battle which our country and the government have been following with interest the workers, the trade unions and the world of work throughout Europe because, from its outcome, the new social and political links in the European institutions will be established. You're asking me for specific answers and commitments. What I can tell you now is that it is very concrete and binding that our will to strengthen public care as a priority. This is obviously part of the political plan, which has nothing to do with the previous neoliberal management of the previous Memorandum. We have made moves to reverse the solvent course of the ESS, to facilitate access, to reduce the burden on citizens and to strengthen the system with permanent staff. We cannot and do not accept this political assessment that this is the same way and in the same plan the destruction of the public health system. Of course, there are difficulties and the return of our interventions is the fact that it has not yet brought about significant changes in the daily lives of workers in the system and citizens. Of course, we are running poverty and misery in a landscape bombed and - let me say - sedated by strong interests. Obviously, that's what we do. That is why we are trying to build social alliances with respect to the workers to whom we are trying to be as familiar as possible with our obligations towards them. We have paid, dear colleague, the doctors of the first quarter in the majority of the country's hospitals and health centres, especially in Crete in all health centres, which did not happen in the rest of Greece because there were bureaucratic problems. For the first time, the PPPs were called on to do on-call. And there were difficulties. And, of course, for the rest of the staff, there is a loose end to being dealt with this month because it needed legislation, because the previous government had left the payments of overtime, excellence and holidays for the rest of the staff completely uncovered. We have passed this legislation and it will now be implemented. There has been a joint ministerial decision and it will be implemented. We do not have the logic of health as a budgetary burden, nor do we have the logic of hospitals as business. What we are interested in is that people's health needs should be met and that they should respond to the pressures of people at this time of crisis. The recruitment we have announced will proceed. We have arranged these days to continue the movement and secondments of staff currently in existence at the various hospitals by the end of the year, to ensure the stability of the system. There may be wrong moves. When you try to patch in a situation, you might also make mistakes. I do not know what specific case you have referred to. It is possible that the administrations of the U.S. and the hospitals in their efforts to meet needs, to make moves that may lead to greater problems. We need to see all this again. However, the availability of customer management of the human resources of the Health System by us does not exist. I told you before that our logic is reversed: it is design, democratic planning of services and reasonable social control. The crucial issue is the question of incentives. That's really where it's going. We are in cooperation with regional selfgovernment as well. There are several regions right now approved social security decisions to the doctors, in particular the auxiliaries and rural doctors who go there, to increase attraction and reduce gaps, which are too many, and we believe that through an overall attempt to reverse this austerity line we will be able in the next period and we will be able to achieve a significant improvement in the provision of public health services in our society. Nor in the private sector, the public sector, obviously have any reason to offer political immunity. There will also be interventions in the control and evaluation of services. We are unilateral and discriminatory in favour of public care. We've told it to all tons. The honest, reliable and productive forces that this health system has will be supported, transparently and by social control procedures, in order for there to be effective intervention in this area in a period of health poverty in our society.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u43	Madam President, if I may, I have said something in the hole of my speech and I would like to fix it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u44	Please develop it in half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u45	At the end of my denture I referred to the fact that I visited a health center in Chania. I don't remember if I said Kissamu or Candanu. It was the Candan Health Centre, because what I said next concerns this region. And a question, Minister,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u46	No more question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u47	Workers are still unpaid in pediatrics. They were paid up to the mid-March. From mid-March until today they have not been paid. How about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u49	You did well to point it out. I remember that last time you mentioned it. There was a setup. I'll check it out, and I'll see with the Department of Psychiatric Health what it's all about. You know they're workers who are paid through the NSRF, so that's why there's this difficulty. And let me make a comment, because you referred to the health centre that is my organic position, where I was actually serving. The fact that in the center of health, which is the organic position of the Deputy Minister of Health, there are gaps and problems, means another perception of meeting the needs of the Health System. I think we understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u50	What other perception? Close?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u51	I think the whole House understands what the Minister means. The fourth question under number 267/26-5-2015 will be discussed now, first question by the Athens MP, the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of the Refinery of "Greek Petroleum" (ELPE) in Aspropyrgos. The Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, we would like to begin by expressing on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists the warmest condolences to the families of the four dead workers, the victims of another employers' crime in the ELPE and wishing for full recovery to the other two injured workers and quickly return to their jobs. The new employer's crime, Minister, took place on 8-5-2015 in ELPE and was a consequence of the overthrow of industrial relations and security measures in a company with a dominant role in the refining sector and, more generally, in the Greek capitalist economy, in order to improve its competitiveness, i.e. its profitability. In ELPEs only a thousand permanent workers came to work today, when in 2003 they were two thousand seven hundred. The majority of the experienced and trained workforce were replaced by "lower" workers of contract workers, who now reach the seven hundred. That is why we are seeing intensification of the work, which has hit the ceiling, with hundreds of thousands of hours of overtime, extinct hours, with 12 hours and compulsory work on day-to-day days, the relaxation of safety measures, the lack of basic materials and tools, as the workers themselves denounce. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] The timing of the fire is not by accident, Minister. Since 12 April, maintenance work has been carried out in the refinery. More than three thousand workers work on each other, under the pressure of the employer to finish work quickly and to reopen the refinery. The majority of these workers are working through contract workshops. They are Greek and migrant workers who are responsible for the company as long as the maintenance work takes place, without having the necessary knowledge of the site, experience and expertise. They pay even 3.8 euros an hour and work exhausting hours in twelve hours, fourteen hours up to sixteen hours. They are absent, Minister, security measures in a room with thousands of workers. As the workers denounce, the alarm siren was not heard and there was no evacuation plan in the operation itself. During the fire, the workers, Mr. Minister, were stacked in one of the parking spaces without being allowed to move. The new employer crime again proves that they do not go hand in hand with profits and employee rights. The responsibilities of all the previous governments and today are enormous, since European and Greek legislation give monopolies all the anti-game arsenal that has undermined whatever protection was in the safety of workers' lives, working relations, so as to reap the profits of monopolistic businesses and the oil sector. Questions, Mr Minister: What measures will you take as a government to stop employers' immunity and arbitraryness, to have and to respect modern hygiene and safety measures, the protection of workers' lives, human working conditions in all places of work, with permanent fixed work and full-time rights? Also, what measures will you take to ensure that the services of the APRC and the CIPC and intensification of controls on industries are carried out? It is well known - and you know it very well - that the JEPEC has a responsibility from Piraeus up to the Megaras to control all operations and a question is whether they can control a business annually. And, of course, you are asking yourself what you will do to cover all the costs of caring for the injured workers, like the families of the deceased for their needs, which will of course be enough from now on, since there is a lack of the person who was working and missing from their lives, of course, the workers who are ultimately dead. We would like you to answer these questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u54	Mr Katsotis, I too would like to express on behalf of the government our condolences to the families of the four dead workers. Unfortunately, this new work accident on May 8 had this fatal outcome. But I want to make a few points from there. You know very well - and you know that, because you are well informed of what is happening in both the business and industry, and as far as I know you are in direct contact with the respective trade unions - that the Labour Inspectorate has been there since the first moment with a different perception of things. There was an on-the-spot check by the Ano Liosianian inspectorate immediately in both ELPE and the contractors involved, and I think that is of special importance, that is to say the control of the contractors involved. Because what you have said is correct because the source of such accidents is, unfortunately, the conditions under which workers work in contractors, which are very far beyond human tolerance. The hours are now related, and they have in fact been largely replaced by unskilled staff of qualified people, in such a critical, increased and modern technological organization. On the part of the Labour Inspectorate, therefore, a fine was imposed on ELPEs related to the working time of EUR 22,500. We have asked for contracts of employment with contractors and they are controlled. On 23 May, in other words a few days later, there was a re-check on all three contractors who were able to work at the same time in ELPEs. On 28 May, again, there was a check, and you know very well that the Special Secretary, Mr Kapsalis, was there from the very beginning, and he contacted both the Committee on Health and Safety and the operational association and the trade union and called on the contractors to respect legality and said to them that, in any case, we would be ruthless in pressing any infringements. With the few instruments we have - the few, I mean, in relation to the Labour Inspectorate - we are trying - and I think that different samples of writing have been given, but it has to a certain extent done a little work - so that we can do our work well. These are all very critical issues. It is not just about ELPEs. I shall say something to you, and I shall end: Mr Katsotis, the government is in the mind of taking concrete legislative initiatives which will, in fact, come to do no conscientiousness in the use of contractors. In this effort, then, those who have the sensitivities cannot be insecure. They have to choose side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u56	Mr Minister, I would like to refer you to an exclusive today by the 'RIZOPASITIS' for this crime in ELPE. Says one worker on May 7th, one day before the employers' crime: "We were a workshop of about fifteen people. Half of us were inside one of the plant ovens and we were transporting pipes. The other half did other work outside the oven. I suddenly felt intense fumes from naphtha and started to dizzy. I immediately left the tools and started yelling at my colleagues to do the same and to get out together. Indeed, we had time to get out of the oven. There we learned from the ELPE officials that there had been a leak at a nearby point, about twenty meters away from where we were, when another workshop took out a scarlet from the tube. I cannot calculate exactly how much material leaked, but certainly it was not a small amount, considering that the fumes reached the point where we worked in the oven. We sat down about half an hour and then we kept up the job. All this around 4:00 p.m. Approximately 7:00 p.m. the job we were going to do in the ovens was done and the contractor informed us that we didn't need it anymore in the workshop and so he "losted me". The next day - says the same worker - morning, I learned that in the same unit we were able to press, probably at the same point, was leaked again, but colleagues were not as lucky and were misguided. Of course, it could have happened the day before, if at the time of leakage welding had begun.” What do you think, Minister? The ELPEs knew about this accident on the 7th? What measures did they take on 7 of the month so that at 8 o'clock we don't have this crime? What's their responsibility? Minister, because you will say a lot about the JEPEK and so on, prevention is important. To go to the JEPEC to do control afterwards, to find out what the cause of the crime was, it is of little importance. The workers have lost their lives. How can this preventive control be carried out with such a composition of the JEPE, with such staff that it is not enough to control the operation even once a year, how much more like such operations, in which an accident not only concerns the workers themselves, but an entire region, the entire Trieste? So imagine a very big accident in the area of the dangers for the inhabitants of the whole city. The risks to health and safety at work will not disappear as long as the capitalist development path, which, Minister, and you, are serving. On this road sacrifices the people’s needs and lives of the workers on the altar, of course, of the supreme value, which is the profit. The main factor which determines each employer's choice of working conditions, plant safety and environmental protection is the effect that this option will have on the company's profits. Each business group is counted by one of the costs of the life and health of the employees, costs measured in fines, allowances, and costs of lost workers due to an accident or illness. On the other hand, what does he put on? It costs the protection measures, i.e. the cost of technical measures, such as suitable equipment, preventive maintenance, the cost of education, the costs of delaying work to ensure that the procedures are carried out safely and that there is an appropriate emergency plan, the cost of employment of adequate personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Katsotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u58	Minister, ultimately the cost of protection measures is far greater than the cost that the employer will have if it does not take the measures. You understand, therefore, that a government's responsibility for this logic of employers is very great. That is why we say that the responsibilities are great. What will the contractors say to be inconsistent? Tell us what measures are you taking when the contractor takes a contractor to the ELPEs and costs ELPEs much less than their own employees, why are they even paid at EUR 3.8 an hour? We're talking about a worker working under such circumstances. What are the checks? When are these checks carried out and what is this tool you have to force them to implement the contracts? Contracts aren't there. The bill has not yet brought it, because it says - it is also in the negotiation. It goes on in the future too. In the future, we will see whether there will be collective agreements, whether there will be universality, compulsoryity, and a wage such that the worker can actually do with a job to get through and not have this whole working jungle. However, these do not "contribute" to growth itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Katsotis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I will conclude and thank you for the time, but this is a serious matter. We believe that measures should be taken yesterday! Because the immunity of the employer will always exist, always uncontrolled, always do not want control, you have responsibilities towards the workers and their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u62	First of all, I would like to inform you, following on from what I said before, that a permanent agency of the Labour Inspectorate has already been set up in the area after the accident. You'll tell me 'we shouldn't have existed before?' Of course, because prevention is important and we recognise that. And you are right to say that the cost of prevention is, in the end, very small in the face of what may happen. As far as what you have said in your question is concerned, if there is a major accident in this operation, this concerns not only its employees, but an entire region, which is why the Seveso directive in question has also been incorporated into this undertaking. From that point on, we will be ruthless in giving responsibilities. Already, some of the findings have come out. There won't be any kind of cover. Controls are being carried out at the moment in this undertaking and not just, they are in the shutdown process, regardless of whether some people consider that it can cost the operation financially. It is necessary to do this. Mostly, we are aware that in the end contractors hide the form of hired workers. In this sense, I say to you that it is very important for there to be legislative changes which create an anti-incentive in the use of contracted companies. And, of course, the bill that you at times say we announce it and don't bring it, we all understand now its enormous importance. Watch out. Because many times your space and the press are telling you that the government doesn't mean what it says, what do you think? We would have arrived today in this tough negotiation, which you see under what conditions? Because there's an unspeakable war. This war is not with canonists, it is not with troops at the border, but it is done in all the modern ways that aggressive capitalism has. Against this war, undeclared but real, you have no right to have the honorer and the observer's attitude. So please, personally, and your party too, take on board the powers that defend the rights of the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u64	Mr Colleague, you have taken a lot of time before, both in protology and in denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u65	I would like the floor on personal grounds. He referred personally to me and my party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u66	What exactly do you want to say? You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u67	In any case, here, on this urge to stand up to the demands or demands that our people have made. That's where we stand, Minister, against this barbarity that you want to humanize. This system is not humanized. Above all, his beginning is profit. And profit kills! He's got dead every day! And you know very well what the evidence is, even of the dead workers. They are the victims of this system, which you say we too must defend, so that the workers can be a charm in the hands of every chimpanzee, the businessman, the entrepreneurship, the kind of fairy tale you keep saying. What entrepreneurship? These parasites, living at the expense of workers and the people! That's right, Minister. They are the ones you serve. And you want us to be the workers' problem? Hey, no! So we will be with the workers and their final release.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u68	Before going to the next question, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 21st Municipal School of Ilio. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fifth question under number 263/26-5-2015 of the First Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the transfer of the Department of Administration of the Anikok of the University of Crete, from his seat in Archanes of the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousias to the Municipality of Platania Nov Chania, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. We enter the fourth with number 268/26-5-2015 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning accidents at the mines of PPC SA in the Regional Unit of Kozani. The Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr. Bardalis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, because this is a similar question, you will allow me to comment more generally. You referred to the attempt to legislate to deal with one side of privatization, a form - I would say better - in relation to the operation - I do not remember exactly how you formulated it - the construction work in such undertakings. Because it is the same problem in the Kozani mines - much of the privatization went through this form - I want to tell you this. Because you said that when this initiative is taken, then too many will have to choose sides, I would like to assure you this: the Communist Party of Greece, not then, when you take such an initiative, but before and now, this issue has cleared it up. It is on the part of workers against privatisation, against the further elasticisation of labour relations, for the abolition - better - of the elasticization of labour relations. But then let us see what side you will go when you say that you will respect - even in this direction you want to go - the rules of the European Union. And I do not need to remind you, but you know that much better than us that these rules, namely, the elasticisation of industrial relations, the privatisations which you are now discussing very hard with the troika, the institutions, are making them a flag, as the European Union flags them. Then we will see where everyone goes and where it will stand. And to say a word about the accidents in Kosani. It's a well-known question. You've got it anyway. It is not a temporary phenomenon, a single case. Only last year we had twelve accidents. The prosecutor intervened after reports by the Northern Greece Mines Inspectorate. We, as a JRC, asked 11 questions last year. We have received various answers, including that measures will be taken, etc. But evil continues and no measure has been taken. Let me tell you attributes that last month, May, there have been three accidents, four from the beginning of the year plus twelve, sixteen accidents. So, what are the workers, consumable? Of course, let's get ahead of ourselves. Let me explain, in your sense, why in the previous Memorandum Policy, was this intervention and the shrinkage, the association of public bodies? The Medal Labour Inspectorate was associated with the Environment Agency. He's completely devalued. He's got eight or ten employees. Now - and before he was in this service, because I had gone to tour - and by law you are now abolishing traffic costs. The workers on the tour have personally told me that preventively they are not going anywhere, because they can't make it and they can't afford it and nobody pays them gas. Only if something happens, then they'll go to see who's to blame, what's to blame. That's the situation. Questions are therefore specific. Apart from the investigation - which is necessary - what is the cause of this, so that the relevant medicine can be given in relation to the responsibilities of the accidents that have taken place so far, there will be a need for health and safety measures for workers, particularly those who work for contractors and there are too many of them? Will the old cars that a large part of the accidents relies there, as their own employees and trade unions say? Will you strengthen the Northern Greece Mine Inspection? Will contractors be abolished - here I am specific -? Are you going to have permanent staff seats with full rights rather than flexible work relationships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u71	The question has a lot in common with the previous one. But I want to tell you some very specific things that we did as a Labour Inspectorate. First of all, I would remind you that for the mines it is the Mines Inspectorate of Northern Greece, which comes under the Ministry of Environment and Energy Reconstruction. So any controls that have been carried out by us are not for mining sites, for lignite mining, but for them. However, from 1-1-14 forty-five checks have been carried out in PPC, fifty-seven in contracting companies operating in the area. There were five monthly reports of PPC and three fines were imposed on the contracting companies of EUR 31,648,32. That's what the Labour Inspectorate has done. From there on, because you made a more general comment, I feel the need to make a comment myself. We haven't declared our absolute respect to the rules, but you know what? We have a different conception that the rules, the legislative frameworks, change when appropriate connections, appropriate alliances, and you can form an aggressive change plan. They shall not be changed by blessing or complaints in general. This strategy has been tested and failed. So today, what the worker needs is to see concrete changes in his everyday life, which will lead tomorrow to better working conditions, changes which will open up another perspective and I am very afraid that your own space has not realised. As far as the Labour Inspectorate is concerned, we have done another thing, which I would like you to know. For the first time, there is a permanent committee for dialogue between the social partners, which deals with issues that fall within the competence of the Labour Inspectorate, and which has already been found three times, with the main issue of undeclared work. So I say this as follows: in spite of the difficult circumstances and within this period of time, we have tried to make use of all the possibilities we have. So I would say this to you, since I consider your sensitivities to be given. Despite the different strategic types of analysis and approaches you have, I consider your sensitivity to work issues to be given. With the forces with which you speak in the workplace and trade union spaces, you can join your efforts so that the trade union movement can become a patron to public services, that we can now do a day-to-day presence of control of the legality and safety and health conditions at the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Vardalis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u73	Minister, I would like to assure you that not only in the words but also in practice and in the trade union movement itself is this: to unite the workers, regardless of what party they vote against, against the main cause of these labour crimes. And the main cause, in our opinion, is the action of major business groups in their efforts to ensure maximum profitability. That is therefore our difference. Others want to unite the workers, but in another direction. The basic condition may be unity, but it is not the only one. The main prerequisite is the orientation of this unified struggle for workers. So, in our view, that should be the direction. The second thing I want to say is this without standing in detail: what is our disagreement on how to deal with such matters, Minister? Of course, every time there's a check. You said before that it should have been more forward, preventive. Right, fine, what's going on? Whether it's the workers' fault, it's the manager's fault or, in any case, it's the engineer's fault. That's where all the results of any investigations go. In other words, we are actually making the responsibilities of its capital and its action, the one I mentioned before, and it is the main cause. Here too, there is no need for a small intervention. Of course, it needs to be strengthened immediately and you did not say a word. You spoke of the Labour Inspectorate. What about the Medal Inspection? I told you specific facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u74	I'm not in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u75	Okay, you're not in charge, I get it, but the problem is here. In any case, a solution must be given by the government as a whole. Such solutions must be given immediately. They won't solve the problem, obviously. But the checks are needed. We are not saying that they do not need it, but above all the problem will be solved if we take measures to limit this action. I'm talking about today, because our logic is different. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally - because I do not have time - I want to tell you this - Minister, let us be honest anyway. In your opinion, the rules in the European Union, after fighting yours, may change. But you have repeatedly stated that, although you disagree with these rules - whoever you disagree, in any case - you will respect them. Is that our creation? Is that the first time the communists invented this thing? So you say it and many members of the government and SYRIZA have said it. Look at that and I'll hang up with it. Anyone can, of course, support what they want. However, the people must also draw conclusions from this four-month experience they have gained, what they are and how they change within the European Union. In any case, the agreement that will come, anyway - I am not saying in its details - will not take a single measure of what has been done over the past five or six years and add to it more to the hump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u77	You are moving, Mr President, because there has been no such agreement or agreement that will add new burdens, without changing the Memorandum of Understanding, in particular, which governs working conditions. Be sure of this. You know what? I would like you to tell me - and I ask you rhetorically - do you think the working conditions have deteriorated over the past five years, yes or no? I'm saying they got worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u79	Do you think that the position of workers in Europe has deteriorated over the last few decades, through the full prevalence and hegemony of extreme neoliberal policies? I answer well, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u80	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u81	That is what you know, when the exploitive character of the socio-economic system we are living in has not changed. I say this, to say this: there must be and must be daily struggles within even the existing system. Because the deterioration that has occurred in recent years, the loss of income, the dissolution of workers' lives, has finally shown that it is important for the struggle to be a day-to-day one. And that, of course, requires you to do some different leaps in your way of analysis. Not all can be referred for another time, in another situation, waiting for the maturation of what conditions, claiming what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u82	And what do you think the JRC doesn't fight every day?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u83	Today, therefore, workers need prevention, so that accidents don't happen. Today they need restoration of their income, and in this sense it is of enormous importance the bill on collective agreements, because it has a direct impact on the conditions of remuneration of workers and contractors' companies, contractors' contracts. Because a bill, which will now restore collective agreements both at sectoral level and at company level, will now have a direct impact on these companies. So there won't be a corresponding motive for using them. Moreover, of course, other issues, such as the rate of use of contractors, the number of workers through contractors, should be seen in relation to all workers. So these are very specific issues that require specific answers and I repeat that no one can do Pontius Pilate. From there, short psalm alike. The war these hours is long. In fact, two concepts are being confronted for Europe, two projects. The fate and life, the expression of a very specific project, which challenges modern aggressive neoliberalism, have now been the responsibility of this government. And on this one not only does everyone take sides, but he also assumes his responsibilities as to how he conducts himself and what attitude he holds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister. And before we move on to the next time, let me make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Kamateros Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The second question under number 272/26-05-2015, the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the intention of the Ministry of Education's leadership for a comprehensive withdrawal of the transfer of teachers, is not discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. The fifth under number 251/20-05-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the completion of outstanding tax controls is not discussed. The sixth question under number 240/19-05-2015 is the second time question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Simorellis, regarding the planned payments for the costs of medicines is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The seventh question, number 218/14-05-2015, topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the degradation and devaluation of the institution of the National Guard, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. The first question will be discussed under No 1786/17-04-2015 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the recognition of foreign universities by the Board of Recognition of Occupational Qualifications and the application of relevant legislation by public and private bodies. The Minister will answer Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, first of all I myself and also the Potami to express our most sincere condolences to the unfair loss of workers in Greek oil. I hope they're the last victims we're mourning. The question of recognizing the degrees of European universities in Greece has a long history charged negatively with convicts of our country by the court of European communities. Universities of international prestige were systematically devalued. In simple terms for the people who listen to us, the graduate historian of the University of Oxford - for example - could not work in Greece as a graduate historian, because he was not a graduate of Greek University. However, the necessary and self-evident prerequisite for European integration, which almost all the political parties in our country are celebrating, is both the freedom of movement of workers and the freedom of establishment between the Member States of the European Union. In this context, the competent European authorities have adopted a large number of mandatory Community directives. These include those who regulate the equivalence of the diplomas of European universities and the safeguarding of the professional rights of graduates. Our country has already been in 2010 under number 38 a.m., as has been amended by Laws 4093/2012, 4113/2013 and 4264/2014 and by a delay of five years, finally incorporated Directive 2005/36/EC. On the basis of those provisions, at least three years of study at the universities of the Member States of the European Union shall be treated as the diplomas of the respective Greeks, guaranteeing their holders equal professional rights in the public and private sectors after the adoption of a relevant Decision by the Council for the recognition of professional qualifications, the ESA. Our country initially seemed prepared to make its compromises, accepting the acquis of the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some time. If you consider it necessary, remove it from my dentistry. However, the real picture today, five years after the incorporation of the Community directive for thousands of graduates, unfortunately is far from being an equal member of the European family. In particular, the Greek authorities are significantly delaying the recognition of the professional rights of foreign university graduates. In the Ministry of Education, there are over three thousand applications. However, even those who have received acknowledgment from the GSP do not recognize professional rights from public and private bodies - ministries, banks - and so cannot work as employees or pursue their profession as graduates of universities, lacking the corresponding allowances, a diploma, promotions, etc. Also, SAP candidates - for example, notices from the Ministry of Finance, 1K, 2K for the customs and 1K for the NERIT - because the relevant qualification is characterised as indebtedness, they have reduced chances of success, although clearly recognised in the prototype of the AEP that they are accepted and graduates with the recognition of professional equivalence. I'll also give you the relevant documents. Furthermore, the relevant regulatory framework is not applicable to the public, and in particular the circular of the Ministry of Administrative Reform - I will give it to you - regarding the retroactive settlement of civil servants with relevant titles. That is how workers are forced to appeal to the courts to find their point of view. Are you asking, Mr Minister, that the recognition of the professional equivalence of diplomas by the GSP is limited to the so-called regulated professions - i.e. lawyers, for example - or to all employees in the public and private sectors, regardless of whether the position they hold in this category is clearly defined by Articles 2 and 4 of the Presidential Decree? Does the recognition of the professional equivalence of diplomas by the ESA only concern the recruitment of public and private employees, or does it cover all of their employment relationships? And finally, on the basis of what legislative provision of organisations such as the Bank of Greece, the Chamber of Economics and other bodies, do they refuse to apply the comprehensive recognition of university degrees abroad from the LAG and the application of existing labour legislation, by providing all kinds of benefits to its employees, university graduates abroad, at the same time as they are provided to officials from Greek universities with equivalent qualifications? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u87	Mr Fotella, in the face of your very critical question, what ultimately concerns the possibility of professional equivalence on the part of the GSP, I say that, yes, only the regulated professions, i.e. engineers, lawyers and pharmacists. You here have involved two different things, the responsibilities of IATAP, i.e. the former judiciary, which recognises academic equivalence, recognition of diplomas, and the responsibilities of the CEPOL, which deals with professional qualifications and recognizes professional equivalence. These are two different things, which should not be confused. Others, therefore, have access to the profession and other academic qualifications, which are the responsibility of the IATP. In the specific cases you mention, they do not say "we do not recognize you the degrees" but they are said to be "become a follow-up to the recognition process through the IATP, so that you also have the corresponding benefits provided". Therefore, it is not at the moment a violation of legislation, but we cannot put any other issues through the GSP through the window. That's what this is about. So look at it. It is very clear that the law that provides for the responsibilities of the ESA and I think it does not belong to any other kind of interpretation. From that point on, because you are referring to specific sectoral contracts, such as the OTO for banks, I tell you that it is not, in the first instance, a cadet, the political leadership of a ministry to interpret collective agreements. There is collective autonomy, but in any case, I think there is a confusion between these two institutions with your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think that you are probably making an arbitrary interpretation of the law. To read to you exactly what the law says: ‘Acknowledgement of a formal higher education qualification by a Member State of the European Union, with that awarded under the national education system in accordance with Article 2(3) of this law, enables the beneficiary to gain access to Greece to a specific economic activity as an employed or self-employed person, under the same conditions as the holders of comparable qualifications of the national education system, except...’. In other words, it removes from this possibility only the cases "... which require increased academic qualifications and, in particular, the positions of teachers of HEIs, researchers and specialist scientific staff", where it sends them to the IATAP. These, not everyone else. In your direction, it has received a communication and the Federation of Banking Offices of Greece, according to which arbitrarily and irresponsibly, it also makes an authentic interpretation of the above legislation and decides that the recognition of diplomas by the GAAP does not cover the working relationships of the Banking Officers to provide the services provided by the sectoral collective labour agreements of OTOE etc. The decisions of the GSC, Minister, to recognise the equivalence of qualifications, are not, first of all, under the option of accepting from any employer, including banks, nor can anyone replace the legislator. This legislation, which is quite clear and specific in this regard, stipulates that recognition of qualifications by the IATP only - I say it again - is necessary in the case of posted teachers of HEIs, researchers and specialist scientific staff. In all other cases, the holder of a university degree abroad shall be treated in full as an internal GAAP graduate, in respect of their professional rights under the GAAP. If you insist on your answer, there is no point in the next question. Otherwise, I would like you to tell us exactly what the timetable is to solve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u91	I insist on my answer, so there is no point in the next question. It is not accurate to assume that foreign diplomas are equal to domestic diplomas in respect of their employment rights. Otherwise, it shouldn't have been IADAP. You ask us to introduce from the window a different function and practice for the recognition of diplomas. This is wrong. Consequently, all your reasoning is based on an erroneous interpretation of the law. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The third question under number 249/20-5-2015 will be discussed with the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the schedule statements and initiatives of the Government on modern culture. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Xydakis. Mr. Orphane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question concerns the area of modern culture, which I believe you agree, of course, that this is an area that could play a major role in a new development model for the country, a wealth factor and an opening-up of jobs. During your programming statements, specialising in your Government's initiatives on modern culture, you announced that you are moving forward: First, to upgrade existing spaces and infrastructure by using the inactive stock of the Ministry. Secondly, to strengthen the decentralisation of modern culture by exploiting cultural sites in the region, while supporting young artistic creation. Thirdly, the development of capabilities that provide digital applications to highlight all major events of contemporary culture throughout Greece. Fourthly, the implementation of specific extroversion strategies. Fifthly, the establishment of a Council of Contemporary Culture for better coordination of actions and movements. And sixth, of course, the creation of a node of interconnection and facilitation for contemporary artistic production. But since, three months later, the landscape of modern culture in our country remains unreserved, with serious problems mainly for workers who work hard, and to a very large extent they remain unpaid or are paid "black" - the "black" employment is unfortunately waging - or paid with hunger rates, while most are without medical care and insurance, I ask you: Firstly, what phase of implementation has been announced in your programming statements? What specific actions have been implemented? Has a design and specific diagram been developed in which what had been announced will have effect? If so, what is it? What will be the results? Do you intend to establish a council of contemporary culture, as you announced? If so, when? Secondly, do you intend to make use of the new ESDP in order to ensure some kind of funding for modern culture? If so, how? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Orphan. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Orphanus, for the question, because he actually gives me the opportunity to take a small account of the first steps in a government work, which is shaded by the historical weight of a negotiation, which aims at an agreement that will free the Greek people, gives him confidence and the powers to go to a new historic phase. However, and at the expense of this great loss of energy policy on the great historical purpose, the government is working in fields that may not be so fancy or are not so much heard to lay the foundations for a new era, a new phase. The first account that comes to my mind - and I would like to say to my colleague and to the House and to those who are listening to us - is that what we receive is a state which has been dissolved by the weight of long-term customer relations and by the decisive blow made by the Memorandum period. In the Memorandum of Understanding, the reforms are minimal, the reforms are the ones that dismantle the democratic structure and give entire areas of the public space in interests, which the Greek people cannot always control. Within this ruin - which the new government has received since January - in the area of culture, what has prevailed as first thought in us - and we have said here in Parliament - is that culture will produce confidence, produce self-consciousness, produce identity, provide symbolic capital - that is what culture first gives, but also how we will give real wealth, how productive forces will be mobilised and how jobs will be created. One of the first tools, which we have looked at and which the Ministry of Culture has, is the Archaeological Resources Fund. In this, we find a situation of paralysedness and enormous inertia of public resource, a potential which is mistaken and inferior to the conclusion at some point, in a thought, that this potential of some did not want to be unfolded. They kept it low to take advantage of some for selfish purposes. We are constantly planning and doing so - the steps are rapid in the credit suffocation and within the narrow margins, which the public accounting leaves you - to renew fundamentally all the mechanism for exploiting cultural heritage so as to upgrade the services provided both to Greek citizens and foreign visitors and to increase revenues, to have a financial, a development tool for the development of the entire heritage and for all the actions of the Ministry of Culture. What we received is a fund of archaeological resources with productive revenues of about 50 million. The studies carried out over the past period estimate that the fund has multiplied around 3.44, according to a study by Deloitte. We're moderate. We believe that by the end of 2015 the revenues from 50 million can be reached comfortably over 60, probably approaching all 70 or 80, only with modernization and structural reforms, as we can do, in view of the tourist season, which is already unfolding until the end of 2016, the revenues can reach all 80 and 100 million. This will be done in many ways. The most obvious, the first to appear around mid-June - there in the second fortnight of June - as the competition for the first electronic ticket system will be the spectacular improvement in the Acropolis and in the surrounding areas of services, the possibility of booking tickets from all sides of the world, the possibility of making a permanent monitor in the movement of rooms and museums and the abolition of smuggling visitors. A second step, which will go stepwise, progressively, will be an increase in the price of tickets in the archaeological sites and museums. Because what I found out from self-consciousness and what all the antiquities and distinguished friends of Greece who visit the premises, in these one or two months that we are talking about, is that valuable monuments of Greek and world heritage, act as deported by the low ticket. No one believes that the Acropolis of Lindos, the Akrotiri of Santorini, even the wonderful monuments around the cliff of Acropolis. This will therefore become escalating and predictable in order to keep access to even free access to weak groups of the Greek population and to periods outside the tourist season but with a ambition by the end of 2016, to have reached a point that we have reached these economic goals that we set. In this area of the exploitation of cultural heritage, there is a great deal to be done. It all starts, and I can only tell you that the refreshment network does not work as it should be, and it does not pay the revenue it should pay. We start by waves, competition notices with strict standards for both services and the renewal of our country's image, with a very high revenue increase expected. Other things that we go a little harder, because we have a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u96	Minister, excuse me. You've already reached seven minutes. You have a secondary right. It is interesting what you are putting forward, and of course I understand the need to develop this. But let us also limit time in the context of the honourable Member's question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u97	I think that my colleague's question asks for substance and evidence. That's why we're working intensively to get all the evidence and the information. I can take a break and go back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u98	You've got a second. Let's answer more extensively there. Mr. Orphane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u99	I really recognise the fact that the answer takes time. It's a big deal. But since we all have to compress the issues, I summarily acknowledge the poor situation of the relevant Ministry, which was known, and also the effect of the Memorandumary Policies. However, the reversal of the memorial period to culture, how and when is it determined? At the end of the negotiation, and if we get it, we will see what we are going to do? What if the negotiation isn't over? How are we going to reverse things? Are there any alternatives, even in the facilitation procedures? We are not talking now about funding, they do not exist. We know the answers you have given us. We are not asking for it by a state and a mechanism that is clearly on its knees. You spoke of self-confidence. But self-confidence through artistry, in order to spread into society and to feel all the rest of us proud with our cultural ambassadors, should first of all be confident that artists themselves, who are at the moment completely alone, will have to acquire themselves. They create themselves, Minister, and are desperately trying to create their own extroversion and spread their creations without the corresponding mechanisms. They are, in fact, excluded from international cultural developments and see their work deceived. You spoke about the online ticket, which we very much welcome. It should have gone too fast, not just in the Acropolis. There are already technological applications for electronic tours, etc., which we hope will not be in conflict with the syndicate requirements and be delayed. As far as the policy of ticket is concerned, a golden balance must be found here. Would you see, as a possibility, the autonomous pricing policy in the ticket per museum, as there is, for example, in museums abroad? I mention, for example, the Metropolitan Museum of New York, which has an indicative ticket but if you don't have the option, it allows you to give something less. Does the low ticket devaluate the space? Does it not work as an incentive to attract additional visitors? Of course you're telling us about the Ministry's procedural procedures, but I'm talking to you about the artistic sector, which is being squeezed at the moment. What is the plan and action plan for all this working chaos that exists at the same time? You said, for example, that there is a programme of evictions from arbitrary occupations of cultural sites. Is this program of evictions in progress and in what areas are you referring to? You said there are unions using scandalous spaces belonging to the Ministry. Who are these unions? You didn't mention us. How do you intend to move? With regard to cultural decentralisation, is there any project to promote cultural forces in the region, where there is also a stirring up by artists and groups that cannot exist somehow? Is there any registration platform, as regards theatre and dance, which is a wretched branch, as had been done in CECH? Culture operates marginally at an economic level. Indeed, while there can be and be created with little money, there can be no money and no facilities. Because I have heard your previous answer to a fellow Member who said that artists should also have less demands, that is very clearly true, but the employee's wages - whether he is an artist or not - must be equal to everyone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding - the government is not compressing downwards, depending on whether or not it has money, but finding ways to find money and finance its obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Orphan. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry, but I will point out again that we need to be within our time limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Orphaner, I'm glad you're asking the state for money, and I'm glad that I'm trying to tell you that as a government we're trying to get the state to produce money, to make a spread in society, in artists. It seems that you did not understand what I told you about what we were trying to do to make use of cultural heritage. You must have passed it too quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u102	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u103	Let me finish. You're asking me what we're doing for artists. You recognize that we don't have money. I'm telling you, we're trying to make money and open jobs. That's the first. You should put this right in your mind and believe it. I can give you all the information you want for the efforts already made and for what happens from now on. With regard to the second thing you are talking about, what is happening now, we are trying to set up programmes for the convergence of technology, research, science and applications in culture. We are trying to integrate such programmes into the new NRP in cooperation with the Deputy Minister of Research, Mr. Fotakis. But it's things they don't pay in one and two months. Now we're planning and strategy. This can yield to one, two or three years. These are the foundations. It's what no one's ever done. We're not trying to do some fragmentary research, cement and empty shells. We are trying to do structures that will cause actions, jobs and dispersal of work for the population. This is a historic need right now in Greece. As far as artists are concerned, it has been said in the programme statements and again in the Chamber and in interviews - we are trying to set up some nuclei, some incubators, which we can give young authors, young artists with various funding, sponsorship and Community, with loans from the European Investment Bank, at the time when the Juncker package begins and operates for our country. We're trying to give infrastructure and publicity. This is what artist groups and groups of creators, infrastructures and publicity are calling for, and where we can also order, to produce work, that is, to reproduce job opportunities, potential for artistic action, potential for creative entrepreneurship. That's the business we're doing. They are designs and strategies, which are not to be announced all the time. They're announced when they exist. What I told you about modernising the exploitation of the heritage is something that starts in June. That's why I'm telling you. We've been working on it for two months with little resources, with zero resources, with no staff at all. The Archaeological Resources Fund, for which I am speaking, is a large organisation with a turnover of 55 million euros, do you know what it has? The head of accounting there is not an economist. He doesn't have any higher education economists. It only has one computer, and it takes at least twelve to operate these systems. That is what we received from the previous governments, and that is what we are trying to fight against within the moratorium that bans recruitment, forbids the state from developing, without credit, without any power and, unfortunately, with ignorance or with the unforgivable suspicion of political forces in the counterpopulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We enter the third with number 106/17-2-2015 question by MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the re-financing of the welfare pension. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Dimitrios Army. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, let me say that many ministers of the current government have been offended by the 'disease' of the obstacle. You have already read a large list of ministers who are prevented from responding to parliamentary scrutiny. This, of course, has been the case with certain ministers in recent years. However, this large number is not justified. I would ask the Bureau and, on behalf of PASOK, that an examination be carried out - so many examinations and examinations are carried out by the Bureau - to the Ministers to tell us the reason for the blockade. Last week I had a check on a minister who said he was in his office, without even having a date. I would therefore ask that the notion of impediment be announced, but also the cause. Minister, you rocked and consumed valuable time in successful, confessed communication management of things. Today, however, we are in the fifth month of the SYRIZA - ANEL government and the Prime Minister's statements in the first few hours of the morning show the failure of the negotiating tactics you have drawn up in January. You seem to be committed to the Baroufakis Agreement of 20 February. The Prime Minister, of course, did well and denied what he announced to us was being asked, because as early as December the previous government sent the same and stricter message of refusing to discuss in any way the issues relating to pensions, issues relating to the CSCE, issues relating to further burdens. These statements, however, show precisely that we are in December. So we're from where you received it. And it would be nice to be on the same level. What, however, has happened five months after December? The country has entered a new federal cycle. The real economy - still standing on its feet or whatever parts of it were trying to retreat - was irreparable at this time. Refusal, supposedly, to existing measures is the creation of an existing situation. The real economy and entrepreneurship are being put in place and it is being transferred to workers at the expense of employment. Finally, we must put an end to this government's contradiction, the government's commitment to election and programme announcements, and see it on a new, realistic basis, such as the issue that I bring you here in this House with my question, even though you have answered it. And you responded in general and vaguely. And you have not previously heard Mr Skourletis, who, by addressing fellow Members of the Communist Party, said: 'Lords, not in the future. What does the JRC say in the future? Here and now the issues!' So you are not listening to him - he is also the chief minister - and you are referring everything to me in the future. If there is a specific reason why you refer them back to the future, of course we should discuss it. But you cannot say that you have been working on for four months - the President rightly read that the question is February - a three-series provision to restore the pre-pension pension, to re-evaluate it. On the substance of the matter: The horizontal application of the specific provision of n. 4093 went out of favorable pension too many people. The main reason for the long stay, which it laid down as a precondition, that is, the twenty years. The second reason was that you did not qualify for the pre-pension pension if you received even EUR 50, for example, a dividend from the Civil Service Fund. We - and I personally - have made a great effort to change this. The OGA had already done some work. That's why I'm asking you: Finally, what proposal have you come up with to implement this issue, to change the criteria, to restore the injustices and to apply this institution that protects people who have no pension, which protects thousands of people? In other words, we agree with the announcement, except that we want this announcement to be carried out in the right way. That is why we ask you to speed up and inform us where this is at last being discussed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u107	First of all, I would like to say that the proposals of the so-called 'companies' or the so-called 'partners' which were made yesterday prove, on the one hand, that they operate not as partners, but as irresponsible and imprudent lenders of the country and, on the other, dismantling all the criticism made by the fifth pillar of the Troika in Greece, which unfortunately have been acceding to it, and, unfortunately, anti-population parties, where their main argument was - and also the fifth phalanx in Greece, the Troika domestic and the foreign troika - that the negotiations were delaying, because the Greek Government was unpredictable because the Greek Government did not submit proposals, because these proposals were not costly, because they were not realistic. The proposal submitted yesterday by the country's lenders shows that the cause of the delay in the negotiations for five months has been the intransigent attitude of dominant circles among lenders. Because yesterday's proposal was a proposal for the continuation of the Memorandum of Policies implemented by the previous governments, which the Greek people deplored by their vote, was a proposal that would have been accepted by our Government, would have led it to a naughty retreat and would have been a subject-matter agreement. The whole package submitted yesterday is rejected by our Government. We will not continue the policies of austerity, because the biggest disaster for the country, in addition to the possibilities for it, is to continue with these memorial policies of austerity which poorly destabilized the Greek people, destroyed the economy and the productive base of our country and humiliated our own country. We know why the lenders do this and why they did it for five months. Now they have done so in an official way, after they have exhausted all the possibilities and tools they have had to lead to economic bleeding and financial suffocation in our country. They do not want to recognise their mistake in the memorial policies and memoranda. They want to substantiate, crush whatever resistance is present in Europe today by the left-wing antimony government in the policies of eternal austerity. They want to continue a neo-colonial rule in our country, because it is a regime that is of interest to them. They also do economic business on this basis and want to buy all the wealth of the country, natural, social, public and private. So we know why and we know why we are responding "no" to such proposals that really lead to the extermination and extermination of the Greek people and the disappearance of our country. With regard to what they are asking for insurance - because, Mr President, there has been great concern since the morning for the insured people - that is to say, the new reductions in main and supplementary pensions and the abolition of the CSCE, which are their most antisocial proposal, because the CSCE takes it into the poorest strata of pensioners, the answer is that these do not pass, because they lead to the realisation of pensioners. With the Memorandum policies, the main pensions were reduced by 40% and averaged EUR 665 a month, with 50% of the pensioners below the poverty line, and the subsidiary only reached EUR 168 on average. There's no one, but there's no room. Ethics and politically and ethically, there is no way that this unscrupulous and provocative demand will be met with respect to the insured and pensioners of our country. And finally, if they don't retreat, our country won't be lost. It has potential and alternatives and has democratic outlets for the Greek people to tell their opinion. These are alternatives and democratic outlets that cost much less in our country than signing such a shameful and shameful agreement, which will continue with these policies that have destroyed our country. Finally, with regard to the issue raised by Mr Kegeroglu, the drafting of the EEA of EUR 360 per month, the first thing I would like to point out, Mr President, is that Mr Kegeroglu spoke as if he were born of a political virginity. Mr. Kegeroglu, these pensions to the older insurers and relatives were cut off by the Samara - Venizelos government by Law 4093/2012. And you were a member of the government and a member of the Greek Parliament and you voted for this provision, so that we do not forget. And secondly, if you do not worry about when we will restore the great social injustice with the irreversible policy that you have applied to cut these pensions into forty-two thousand elderly uninsured Greeks and expatriates - your government has cut it to forty-two thousand people and now, according to the figures we have, there have been only twenty-eight thousand left - to assure you that tomorrow there is a bill of consultation of the Ministry of Labour, in which there are provisions for simplifying procedures in the CEPOL and abolishing the paradox of 46.10 euros that people with disabilities had to give to be examined by the CEPOL. It also includes a provision that decisions that will come out of CSRs will be for one use, so that they will not be repeated and afflicted again and again. It contains provisions on dealing with tax evasion and, of course, a provision for the reintroduction of the OGA pension to the elderly and elderly insurers, which in my dentistry I will tell you exactly what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u109	Minister, you spoke of a fifth column. That's all! The PASOK has experienced the fifth convoy, when it gave the battle from 2010 and as a government, but also as a partner in the co-operation government since 2011. And unfortunately, you, SYRIZA, were sneezing the fifth pole in our country because it was helping you. You came to a conspiracy, common goal. You don't have the right to talk about a fifth column. Today we in PASOK are those who support the negotiation of the country. But the negotiation! I politically accused the government of failure to negotiate. And yes, it's a failure for the tactics you've chosen. We had to do what we had achieved and made clear by e-mail Hardouvelis, which was too much - which you are now looking for and do not find - to consider them as data, not to renegotiate, so that you can achieve things further. Do you understand that, Mr. Army? That's the way negotiations take place. You put clean things on the table and it's easy to say they had you on the plate. Don't you understand that? Compare e-mail Hardouvelis with yesterday's proposal by the partners, with your proposal of forty-seven pages? Hardouvelis email is a playground in front of what you sent yesterday, with the great taxes, the revenue increases. They're taxes and they'll be paid by the cosmopolitan. That's what you compare. So you are making a tragic mistake for the country. I do not care about you and the 'ANEL' and 'SYRIZANEL'. I'm interested in the country. It's a tragic mistake. You did not take advantage of everything we had achieved and you did not use the political mandate you had and the valuable time to achieve more. Unfortunately, we went back. And I see you even break the mail line Hardouvelis. You retreat even further. If that's possible! You say you're negotiating. Full failure! You come to the specific subject we are discussing now and say: 'But did you not legislate? You were Minister." First of all, I wasn't Minister in 2012. But you are forgetting - you said here in this House that you will support it - that the PASOK has put forward a concrete initiative to change the criteria for granting welfare pensions in order to avoid these injustices. Here, as a Member of Parliament and as a SYRIZA parliamentary representative, you said you would support it. And you supported that particular amendment which the government did not accept at the time and the New Democracy side, today, of the Anti-Population Officer. So don't forget, by addressing me at PASOK. Addressing somewhere else, of course. Today, therefore, because we cannot constantly invoke the past, nor do you come to the endless future, it is good that you say that in the bill that will be published tomorrow, there will be this provision. I have read your statements in which you say that it will first be re-funded with EUR 260 and this until it is restored. First, a pension for the same reason cannot be two levels. It will either be EUR 360 or you cannot accept the EUR 260 that you say, if the post is valid. What do I propose to you on the substance of the matter and I think that is where we can find a good solution? Firstly, the twenty years which it has set as a precondition, to become ten years, which also applies to other matters, such as the grant of the normal pension of the GAAP, etc. This will be an act of justice and equality. Secondly, it must not lose the right to welfare pension when it receives a pension amount from any other fund - EUR 50, 70, 100, 200 - but it must be cleared whether budgets are not available to provide the EUR 360. To be netted, not to be cut. This is a warning difference that can be made in the first phase, not with the EUR 260, but with the EUR 360. Of course, with regard to the income you have announced, the EUR 4.320 - that is now - or the EUR 8,640 - I think that is less reason and that is correct, that the taxable income from real estate will not be taken into account if it does not exceed a limit. That's right, too. However, the essence is to see the streamlining of the criteria in a way that does not strangle and does not undermine the very concept of a welfare pension of EUR 360. Not 260 euros! We will not accept it because there is a way with what I have told you, perhaps with the same budget. Maybe. I don't know. That is why we ask you to have the information which you do not give us, how many are it, how much it costs, when it will be for the first time, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Kegeroglu, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u111	I think that with these proposals, we can find on this particular subject a common place, but not in the endless future. By the way, is that also a question you raised in the negotiations and is that why it is being delayed? Are you, as Mr. Army, justified, but is the government not justified, who went and reopened the negotiation of matters that we had previously resolved and cleared up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u112	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u113	The first, Mr President, I would like to say: I, speaking of a fifth pillar that operates in Greece, said that unfortunately, political parties of counter-population have joined it. I didn't mention parties. I did not understand the reaction - not the personal one, of course, but the party, as a PASOK - to Mr Kegeroglu for PASOK. Anyone who has the fly, Mr Kegeroglu - and I said that it is none of your business, partisans, I am referring to PASOK - is mystical. I didn't call parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u114	Are you talking to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u115	Anyone who has the fly - third time I tell you as PASOK's representative, it's none of your business - it's mystic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u116	Read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u117	He's sore! If you have that role, don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't interrupt. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u119	I didn't imply...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u120	I know well...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u121	Secondly, you criticised the government because we did not take advantage of what you had achieved. But that is precisely what we have exploited and exploited in the negotiation, namely the impoverishment of Greeks and Greeks, the quadrupling of unemployment, the six thousand suicides, the dissolution of the country's productive base, which has resulted in the memoranda signed by the governments to which your party, the PASOK, and the policies it has implemented. This is our argument, not only to the lenders, but also to the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u122	What results will you bring? Two spoons, two zeros!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u123	...to the peoples of Europe and to the world public opinion, that we must not continue with these policies, because with them and the troika that has imposed upon you, too, and with which you have agreed and implemented them, you have led to the destruction of our Greek people and our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u124	Is that what it takes five months to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u125	Third one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u126	Five months!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u127	Now, look! Criticize us...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u128	Minister and Mr Kegeroglu, I would ask that there be no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u129	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u130	We will not run out of the budgetary or general political situation of our country in the run-up to negotiations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I have not exhausted my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u132	I'm sorry, Minister, you'll have the time. There was a specific question. Let us confine ourselves to it. If you consider that the answers have been given, state them. If you wish to reply, Minister, in response to Mr Kegeroglu on this question, please confine ourselves to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u133	It's the subject of the negotiation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u134	So, as far as the criticism is concerned, why did we not bring back to the four months that we are in the government, yet to draw up the ultra-insured Greeks and homosexuals, and to be criticised by the PASOK who participated in the government and that his MPs, and Mr Kegeroglu, voted for this inhumane measure, to the detriment of the most unfortunate layers of our population, here we go to political irrational and political madness! Fourthly, Mr President, this is not a trading field with the country's creditors. It is a measure to tackle the humanitarian crisis, because these people and their families have really been driven into the humanitarian crisis. We don't talk about it with anyone - but, no-one! - and tomorrow I said that it was posted in open consultation, and from next week on it will take the road to the debate on the parliamentary committees and then immediately thereafter in plenary. It is therefore not 'will'. It's posted tomorrow. No later than noon, he'll be posted. Now, we are trying to solve the two major problems created by the Samara - Venizelos government with n. It is true that the European Parliament has not been given the right to vote in local elections to the European Parliament, but it has not been given the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament. What were the two big problems? The first was that it set a 20-year-old condition for residence in our country, which mainly touched on the expatriates. The second one that also touched the Greek older insurers was the banning clause that if you get a small pension either EUR 50 from the National Resistance or EUR 70 from Albania or the former Soviet Union, your pension is completely cut. These two, Mr President, are being removed. Twenty-year stay will be a ten-year stay in our country. And the condition that it receives another much smaller pension goes away and, as Mr Kegeroglu has proposed, it will be offset by any small pension. When it was cut, Mr Kegeroglu - you know it well - and because I want to be fair, regardless of whether your party and you had voted for this provision, you personally fought as State Secretary for it to come back - you did not succeed, but you fought it, I always recognise it and I speak politically about political responsibilities - as a recognition, if any, of your mistake to vote on this barbaric provision. But then it was forty-two thousand of our fellow people, Mr President, some of whom are no longer alive, since they were over-aged. You understand. From our research to see how much the cost is, the twenty - eight thousand live only by those who cut them. On the basis of those who still live and have this right, we are proposing - we will, of course, talk to both the committees and Parliament - that they should return to EUR 260 from EUR 1-10 to EUR 1-10-2016 and EUR 1-10-2016 and then to EUR 360 - that is, a gradual reintroduction. If that happens, as we say, the cost will be EUR 13 million for this year, EUR 36 million for time and other years, totalling EUR 360 million. However, we do not measure it, Mr Kegeroglu - and I believe that you too do not personally measure it - because it is a measure to restore a great social injustice and we should not see the cost in this case. Therefore, the basic structure of the device that comes tomorrow is that. From there on we are, of course, open to dialogue, to debate to improve it as much as possible. However, Mr Kegeroglou, in a debate with their institutions - that is what you had spoken in mind - accept that way, because people had lost it and said to you: 'Even though and gradually, to move forward in order to restore this very great social injustice'. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-04-S1-commons.u136	With the consent of the House at 12.55' the sitting is closed for Friday, June 5, 2015, at 10 a.m. on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
