ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any ladies in the chairs yet. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 18-3-2015 authorisation, the minutes of its IMI meetings were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, noon on Wednesday 18 March 2015, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity: ‘Consolidations on direct measures to address the humanitarian crisis, the organisation of the Government and the Governmental Institutions and other provisions’.]] It is the first parliamentary control meeting. I hope that in the next few days there will be more Members present and indeed give value and importance to this process, which is a process and social control, because Members also control the government for the sake of society. We will begin with the first with number 21/10-3-2015 topical question, first cycle, which is indeed very topical, the question of SYRIZA's MP, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning measures to address the phenomenon of school bullying, namely the bullying. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Tasos Kourakis. Mr Triantafylides, I will give you the floor to develop the question for two minutes, with tolerance, because it is a matter of this kind, which would really be worthy, if more Members were in the Chamber, to have a general debate on bullying in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure and congratulations that you have taken the initiative. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, I would first like to make a necessary clarification. The question was written on 6 March, which is the World Day against School Intimidation and was tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on 10 March. This necessary clarification of the position, in order not to be regarded as being either journalistic or political, was attempting to make a joint use of the tragic ending, which highlights the issue of the responsibility of each and every one of us together in this regard. First we express our sympathy to the relatives, to the child's family. I do not want to mention his name, precisely because we have to protect his memory and, unfortunately, to become the starting point so that we do not redeem victims. Minister, in fact, in order not to enter the process of wishes and prayers, it is clear that the state and the services can set the framework. That's my question. Whether, in other words, the prevention and repression process appears to be adequate and structured. The repression, of course, refers to the Ministry of Justice, which has announced that there will be and will be the relevant part concerning the sentence, because, unfortunately, Greece is the only country that has not adopted the European directive and European legislation on the criminalisation of the bullying. From what Mr Paraskevi informed me, he is in this direction covering the part which is not covered by the existing regulation in relation to physical abuse. The question concerns prevention. Perhaps the regulation will dissuade and play a role in prevention. Prevention is about mobilizing society, the educational community, teachers, parents, students. I would really like to ask my question there: How does the Ministry think about this opposite couple: from the lack of care, fear, silence, from the other care, care, solidarity. It's an anti-positive couple and, if you like, the evaluation of the problem itself. I follow the thought of Mr. Gerasimios Kolaiti, who is a Deputy Professor, Director of the Paedophiliac Clinic of the University of Athens at the General Children's Hospital "The Agia Sophia", which says: "Most observers would like to prevent school bullying. If observers show dissatisfaction, 75% of cases end intimidation." Here is the importance of caring, caring for fear, indifference and silence. So what does the Ministry intend to do in this direction of mobilising society and institutions against fear, silence and indifference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. The Minister has the floor for three minutes in response to the same spirit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I fully agree with you that there should be a general debate and perhaps we should have an amendment to Parliament's Rules of Procedure so that at least a few colleagues from the rest of the House would be involved in the timely questions. Then there would be interest in coming, because so far, as we know, is the Member in the Chamber who asks the question, the previous and the next, which does not honour the parliamentary procedure. The phenomenon of school bullying - that is the Greek word - what we often get used to calling and bullying, is a multifactorial phenomenon, so dealing with it will actually be multifactorial. Involved in school, family and community as a whole. The fight against the phenomenon needs a scientific documentation, a record and a plan. We have no intention as political leadership to deny the efforts of the former or the previous political leaders of the Ministry of Education, but we cannot point out some moves made a few years ago which have had negative results and I am thinking about the dissolution of the structures of health care. Health treatment is not only aimed at certain poor dietary practices, addictions, alcohol, smoking, obesity, sexual discipline, contraception and much more. It is also a set of actions related to the mental sphere, issues of solidarity, mutual understanding and resolution of disputes. While we had in every prefecture separate structures for health, environmental education and cultural activities, the previous political leadership abolished these three distinctors with responsibility and did one per county, which had all three elements. You understand that this has actually led to a deterioration. However, what has been done as a positive one, which we are keeping and broadening, is the intention of specific measures to prevent, inform and raise awareness about school violence and intimidation, both at the central level - which I shall refer to at a regional level as well as at a regional level until the school unit. Many other European countries also face this phenomenon. The Minister for Education, Mr Baltas, took part yesterday in Paris on Tuesday at an informal meeting of Ministers on such issues and on issues of combating racism, which means that action at European Union level also needs to be taken. I will close my first speech with particular emphasis on the fact that there are too many methods of combating school bullying. There are groups of actions being taken by health care professionals and others who have been trained, so that students themselves - this is a very modern trend - can be properly informed and interfered when an incident of school intimidation and violence occurs, because we cannot wait for the specialised teacher at that time. I must also say that an element that we as political leadership intend to put into the educational programme is the part of aesthetic education and art. I was talking the other day about the association of teachers around the theme of art and visual courses. I was told, on the subject of school bullying, that in artistic and musical schools the incidents of violence are very reduced, which is reaching the disappearance of the incidents. So the aesthetic culture of all the students in our country is a very good shield to deal with the phenomenon at its root, its prevention. I am not one of those who are defenders of repression, but of prevention at all levels, it is enough to do this with a scientific plan, in a way which is documented, as I will have the opportunity to then develop in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The honourable Member has the floor, Mr Triantafylides, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u6	I'll continue where the minister left off. The question is what reservoirs and living society do. It is not an opportunity to build another agency or refer the matter back to the bells or build a central psychological committee at the Ministry of Education to deal with the problem. I come back because the problem itself shows us the way. The International Network for a Better School in 2010, looking for, radiating the problem, said - and I repeat - that if observers present in the episode of school intimidation show displeasure, then in 75% of cases, three out of four, in other words, intimidation will immediately stop. In 54% of the incident, spectators amplify bullying, bullying, by passively watching, as if nothing were happening. That's why I put the opposite pair "indifference - silence - I don't care", which is not generally about "some, somewhere, at some point", but about the parent and professor who says: "Let me not get in trouble, because the next day will probably come the parent of the complainant and I will have stories" etc. So what can and should the state, in our view, do? That is why we exchange these thoughts from this position and relationship. I therefore propose, Minister, Mr Kourakis, that every school unit has the school board against violence, in which firstly the director - a teacher elected by the teachers' association, secondly, the representative of the parent and guardian association and thirdly, the school guard. The school guard comes back to school and is caring. He sees children playing during break, except for schooltime, and he knows it. So this board can be the reporting polo, with all discretion and protection of personal data, so that children and parents have a coercion and a substantial mechanism that can act as a preventive mechanism to deal with the problem, the complaint of groups deployed inside and outside, with extra-school data. We live every day. We are talking with high school and high school children - that is what we need to catch - and we see that their complaint is that they are 'not interested'. We must create the institutional shell as a state and incorporate there the reservoir and living society, which will understand and function effectively and remedially on the subject. There are not enough mobilizations to express the anger and anger we saw yesterday in the news releases, marches and gatherings against the school. It's neither the school nor the building nor the windows nor the police, who tried to protect. It is us, society and the state, to the extent that it does not create the otters in which a society can be regenerated, looked in the mirror and hitting its evil self. So I suggest that, Minister, if you see it as a positive contribution to this debate: school councils per school unit against violence, professor - parent - school guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Mr Kourakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u8	Mr Triantafylides' proposal is interesting, but I would say that we need enrichment. You know, the issue of combating such behaviour, as well as of dependencies and other good practices - I am referring to the fight against AIDS and others - requires scientific documentation and knowledge. Any teacher or doctor can not fulfil his or her debt if he or she does not have proper training and does not work with scientific methods. For this reason, the Ministry is using - and will use - ESDP programmes to train sixteen thousand five hundred teachers. That's the money we've got. Training will be done with seminars, with training - in various ways, not to tire you - which is a prerequisite. As to what you said about the school unit, you would see that the Ministry is dealing with it more globally. First of all, a central committee at the Ministry, called the "Central Scientific Committee", consisting of qualified and well-qualified academics, has a long experience of the subject, which suggests the methodology and content of the educational community's awareness-raising and information activities. It also recommends the selection criteria for network members from there and below. It recommends the preparation of digital and printed educational material without which school units cannot work. He is, of course, following the course of his work on how it goes, how it does not go, how there is a correction, and is implementing advance actions of excellence. On the other hand, I have to tell you that there is a region-wide committee of Prevention Actions, which are trying through the detailed curriculum of study and intensification - as we will seek - health education programmes, research projects, projects, school activities, counselling stations for young people and others, to pass on the organisation from there to the prefectures and then to school units. What you said about the board per primary and secondary school unit is what we call the 'School of Prevention Actions'. I would like to inform the House that this is not what we are going to do, but it is what already exists in the Ministry, as I said before, recognizing all the positive aspects of the previous governments. You simply understand that there is a need for monitoring and tension, not only because of the topicality, but because it is necessary to modernise the programmes because of the new circumstances. I am also referring to the social crisis which is plagued by our country. In fact, teachers are defined by the teachers' association. There are two permanent teachers, who not only train themselves, but one of their duties is to train the other teachers in the school unit. I would also like to mention that, just beyond school bullying, we also have online intimidation, which is an extremely dangerous phenomenon. There's a two-way route between school and online intimidation. As I said before, there must be separation of children into working groups, on specific sections, with experiential action and not just by repetition of monotonous orders and terror. The children themselves must take the situation into their own hands. Of course, there must be training for parents and society. What Mr Triantafylides said about indifference is really very important. When someone beside you is abused and you are an indifferent citizen, as legal science knows, you are absolutely - but, absolutely - responsible for what is being played. I would like to conclude by pointing out that the Ministry's priorities are to be able to ensure - if not all of them together, but in a progressive way - the existence of a psychologist and, if we cannot per school unit, at least per school complex, so that there can be both conflicts between children and children as well as discrepancies between children, teachers and parents. The part of psychological support and prevention is crucial. I would like to believe that these measures are measures which can begin to tackle the problem first. It needs to be monitored, an estimate of the result. Already within the Ministry's programme at the moment there are services which record incidents on a regular basis, so that we can have scientific research on the extent of the problem, without making any over-inflation or underestimating it. I would like to believe that we will have the opportunity - and the President-in-Office said at the beginning - to discuss the issue fully in all dimensions, because, apart from school bullying, there is also work intimidation, there is intimidation in many other aspects of our lives. We thank Mr Triantafylides for this timely question. Today I think we have a lot to do and, above all - and I am closing up - to judge what we said we will start along the way if they really have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u9	We thank the Minister and the honourable Member. I think that the dimensions taken up by the case that covered the issue of school bullying and bullying, which - as you said - are not limited to school environments, require that the House discuss this issue in broad terms and I will take the initiative as President in order to provoke such a debate. I would like to point out that we, as parliamentarians and as parliament, have the responsibility of living and reviving society, to which you referred, Mr Triantafylides, to be represented by a living and caring parliament, which really listens to and afflicts its problems. I see on the benches Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou - she has a next question - and I am glad you are presenting, Mrs Asmakopoulou, because I see that on November 27, 2014 you submitted a letter of protest by students - farmers from the Dairy School of Ioannina, on the proper functioning of the school. This letter is signed by “The desperate students of Dairy 2014-2015” and is reported among the signatories and by the unfortunate Vangelis Giakoumakis. I would like to point out this because the petition procedure, which is a parliamentary procedure - Members from these notifications, raises questions in a way that they can make public and represent society - has been completely discredited, has remained on paper in reality. Reports are filed, but they are read in a routine 'the Member of this House presents the same report', without debate and without highlighting. It will be my proposal to take other initiatives to ensure that parliamentary control, at the level of questions and at the level of petitions, becomes more alive and substantial. Maybe that's how we can salvage some things and maybe save some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, may I say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u11	Of course, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. You know, Ioannina is my special homeland. This incident, which has upset the whole country, of course, has been particularly upset by my country, where we saw various incidents yesterday, in all respects, which we have to deal with. I am therefore pleased that this timely question is coming to touch this important issue. I agree, of course, that Parliament should also address this issue. We welcome any initiative in this direction. I also believe that we, too, may be able as a parliament to inspire and give in our attitude the good example of younger children here and throughout society about how to deal with the issues through consensus, through dialogue, without verbal attacks and obviously without resorting to violence. On the occasion of the start of the procedure for the current questions, it would be welcome for us that all parliamentary control procedures are carried out in greater depth and with as much frequency as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. By the way, I would like to say that the day before yesterday had visited the House a school from Kastoria and I was told that the children, the students, are doing a documentary on the bullying. Perhaps it would be worth the House calling on these students and giving them the opportunity to have a voice on this matter. At this point, we shall comply with the Rules of Procedure, which says that the questions addressed to the same Minister will be discussed after each other if there is no objection. Next, then, is the fourth question by number 8/9-3-2015, first question by the Member of the Attica of Potamio, George Mavrotas, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the abolition of introductory examinations in the Experimental Schools and the subsequent deterioration of the institution. Mr Mavrotas' question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education Mr Anastasios Kourakis. Mr. Mavrotas, you have the floor for two minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that we regard as a Potami as the institution of the Experimental Schools Standards as being formed after the n. 3966/2011, as one thing for which public education and, in particular, secondary public education can be proud. That is why, in our election programme, we have proposed the extension of the institution. Now I'm coming to the object. In his programme statements on education on 8-2-2015, the Prime Minister said that any changes that are being promoted for education will have a four-year horizon and will take place through exhaustive dialogue, without surprises and surprises. The following day the Minister for Education, Culture and Religious Affairs, Mr Baltas, pointed out that he would not change the status of exams in the Experimental Schools for this year, because, he said, "he does not want to upset the year" and "he does not want to put ice on this even distorted ambition of children and parents". On the contrary, on 25-2-2015, the Minister surprised, announcing that import tests have been abolished since this year in the fifty-five Experimental Schools of the country, while in the five Preservation Schools, the import examinations from high school are abolished. In fact, on 5-3/-015 the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Kourakis, sent a circular to the Model Schools, which is based on a law to be passed, in order essentially to prevent them from taking in introductory examinations - invoking a lack of resources - and to proceed to a draw, of course, following decisions by their scientific committees. Obviously, in the case of the pilot schools, there was no consultation, as the Prime Minister promised in his planning statements. After all, this issue of the Experimental Schools Standards was not even in SYRIZA's pre-election programme. Also, the myth about the illiteracy of these schools, which is transported by their wars, does not seem to be the case, because in these schools they are also studying children of "13" and "14", children of migrants and children of poor families who would otherwise not have the opportunity to find themselves in such an educational environment. The examinations are essentially necessary to ensure a minimum level in order to enable new innovative methods of education to be applied without leaving some children out of the process. An undeniable witness that the abolition of the examinations will lead to degradation is how the institution of the Experimental Schools was degenerated in 1985, when the introductory examinations were abolished. So, on the basis of the above, the Minister asks: What has changed and is moving to implement the changes in the middle of the school year, indifferent to his commitment to the programming declarations and to overthrow the programming of thousands of families? There has been no evaluation of the institution of the Experimental Schools Standards, as they have been operating for two and a half years, based on the n. 3966/2011, in order to propose this rapid change or was it merely a requirement for trade unions? For example, if we see an announcement from ELME Piraeus, we will find that it is opy-paste with the Ministry's announcements. In relation to the Standards, in relation to the ranking of the examinations from high school, since the Minister himself said that it is not reasonable for twelve-year-old children to give import examinations, how do we actually leave import tests to the standards for 12-year-olds and abolish them for the 15-year-olds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. The Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Kourakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u16	I thank Mr Matutes for his question. Of course, we had the opportunity to exchange views in the Committee on Educational Affairs when we had proposed to the Chairman of the Committee on Experimental Schools. What we have said, that all the changes made to education will be the result of dialogue, also applies in this case. I have to tell you that with the changes we are making - I will explain why we are doing it - we do not change the content of the teaching or the way in which the teachers are elected or any of the actions already being taken. The only way to change is to introduce pupils into these schools. We have announced at the same time that we will launch an extensive dialogue in order to be able to reform the framework, both in terms of the way in which teachers choose and remain in them and in terms of modernising the content so that they respond better to their mission. The mission of the Experimental Schools, as they operate from 1985 onwards - and we all admit that they were very successful schools - was by lottery. In order to allow new methods of teaching to be applied, to draw the necessary conclusions so that they are subsequently disseminated to all school units, it should be a random sample of the population, i.e. from all the social categories and pupils of different skills, successes and difficulties. It is not possible to conduct research by using new methods in a selected student capacity, which comes from an examination, to draw conclusions, which we then apply to other schools, which have a random student population. You understand that this is completely unscientific. The claim I heard in committee - I heard him today - that the examinations bring students who are approaching the random sample is not correct, as you know. Also, what is said to be studying immigrant children in the historical patterns that we maintain. No immigrant child exists in Varvachios or Ionideos, but only at the 2nd Athens Experimental School. And you understand that in schools, these children undergo training and special courses, which can only be ensured by families who have the financial potential to do that. In addition, consider, in terms of teaching, children who are twelve and thirteen years old to undergo two years of education and in particular in order to get to high school. And that's what you understand is the worst thing that can be done. We, at least, have the idea that these ongoing tests, which are loading children with an exaggerated stress and because I know that these positions are too few, the vast majority of students are left out of this process, being loaded with a failure from such a tender age, are an incident to the examination procedure for their introduction. So we have said - from all the schools - that for two years now - I say it so that the National Representation and the Greek people know it - we have only had tests. All the time in the past, in the schools we say they are very good schools - and they are very good schools - children were admitted by lottery. We have no research - and there could not be - valuation, comparison with two years. And one last thing to complete this unity. The fact that examinations have taken place over the last two years means that the children who are currently in the second and third grades and in the second and third grades of high school, that is, the disciple population, are by exams, or a selected sample. If this year - this is what we did - we let tests be carried out, we would have throughout high school, in all high school, a student potential, which would be selected. It wouldn't be an accidental sample. Therefore, not only could conclusions be drawn, as I said before, in order to be diffused in the rest of the community, but also the education of students and students of the Pedagogical Schools who come and attend to make them better, would be in front of a sample that would not then correspond to that which they would apply to school units. And charming, I'd say - because I'm also a doctor - that it's like applying a cure to a sick excellent health. That's what this is about. We have a selected good sample, we are applying new methods to go and apply them to a random sample, which is completely unscientific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Mavrotas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Minister, for the first answer. I would like to say, with regard to the random and representative, that in the answer sent to us by Mr Baltas in a written question we have asked, he says: 'In a representative sample of the school population and therefore in a random sample'. There is a confusion here and let me invoke my capacity as a professor at the School of Engineering, who is involved in the design of experiments, that the other is representative and the other is random. The accident is not representative and the representative is not accidental in this case. Because with the random sample they can come up with a draw of good students in a school - all or most - and another bad students will come up again in the draw process. So if we want a representative sample, we should actually do it with design. One idea would, for example, be that 50% of the exams and 50% of the draw should emerge in order to ensure this representativeness. Experimental Schools are not for excellent students, as we have actually let it be understood. We really want to put in place excellent or best teaching practices. And that cannot be done if there is no level in the class, which is guaranteed by the examinations. The examinations are essentially like a student's contract, as a commitment that the student is willing to participate in innovative and innovative educational processes. As far as what you said about schools is concerned, let us say that the Experimental Schools Standards are essentially less than 1% of the school population. So there's no, let's say, an increase in the rate of care by taking tests at the Experimental Schools Standards. In addition, the examinations as they take place are not of a pan-Hellenic level. The subjects are abata, they are simply, to which a student and twelve and fifteen years old can cope, even without instruction. The school can be both insecurity or vanity of parents, which is something else. As far as the questions you said about the standards are concerned, one question would be because only five standards. Will we only rely on historical evidence and on the 1936 decrees of the silk age? Why should there be no Standards in other cities, such as Thessaloniki, Patras, Volos, Heraklion? With regard to what we said why there was no high school exams, the excuse you told me in the Committee on Educational Affairs was that the children were, in fact, in danger of changing their school environment from High School III to High School I. However, we should also see the other side, namely that for every child in danger of losing his school environment there are dozens of other children who, in fact, do not have the opportunity to claim a place in a better school. This is in the interests of many of us. That is, in fact, worthy of dignity for us. And here is our main difference: we believe that we must be given the opportunity to claim a better future on the basis of one's skills and not on the basis of luck or acquaintances. I'm gonna close my denture by saying that a lot of talk is about a Grexit in the economy over the last few days. We are much more afraid of a Grexit in education. Because with what we hear from the Ministry of Education in terms of both higher education and secondary education, we see a'reversely backward' in the 1980s and the stirring up of the announcements to abolish the n. 4009/2011 in tertiary and return to a kind of law - the 1982 framework - we believe that it has been a long time since, and it is not the problems of higher education with those of 1982 - and what has to do with the Standard Schools, that is to say, with the return to the 1985 system. This'shortly backward', therefore, scares us in the 1980s. We hope that the dialogue on the draft law which the Ministry of Education will bring, as you said, - and which will soon become - will be essential, as you said, and not presumptuous. We once again call on the Minister not to put an end to this year, in his logic of "decide and order", as is done here by abolishing the tests, by making the tribute to some trade unionists, but any changes that may arise in dialogue and after evaluating the existing framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr. Kourakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Mavrotte, you said that there was no SYRIZA program what we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u21	I meant this program that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u22	Yeah, I understand. If you look at the minutes of the previous term of the Parliament, you will see my own positions, as a teacher responsible, when the bill for this strange term "Training and Experimental" - something that does not exist, because the Experimental is doing other things, and the Standard - I had been placed, clearly on behalf of our party, saying that this is an unrelenting and unscientific design. Since then, in other words, we have said a number of things that we are keeping. With regard to the issue you mentioned, it is very interesting and really wants a correct answer, in my view, as far as it can be, of course, an answer from a person. You know, there's a contract in all the acts of social life. When a man or family plan their lives on the basis of the rules established by the state, these rules cannot be changed in the course and the process before something is completed. These children, which are now in High School III, had entered the express assurance of the state in general - regardless of governments - that they will enter by draw, proceed from one grade to the other without examinations and complete their studies without examinations. How, then, we are now legitimized and how the two previous years, the previous leaderships, have already been legitimized, suddenly tell these children that "you're in these rules, but we're changing the rules, we're running tests, and you're likely to be out of school, not because you're not good, but why some others are better." In any case, if we want to give other people a chance to come, people should change their jobs every six months so that everyone passes through all services. Does this help these children's psychology, which started shaking that they're going to be found in a new school environment? For children it is the worst thing to change school environment and in a way that they had not predicted. What we are saying is that in the introductory steps of most, about forty Experimental Schools there will be a draw in front of the parents in an intact manner. From that point on, the child will continue his studies normally, if there is a high school, if there is a high school, if there is a high school he will go to high school without an examination. What do we do about the remaining five historical experiments? We give them the opportunity by a three-stage procedure - the Teachers' Association, the graduates and the Scientific Council - to decide how to choose if they want a draw, if they want an examination and how these tests will be carried out. We are prepared to contribute to ensuring that it is implemented in a fair manner. I personally believe that the debate, which has been opened, has taken a very large amount of publicity. It was worth it, but there are huge other problems in education, which we have inherited in educational gaps, in anachronistic programs, in thousands of structures that are currently not working, whether they are called support structures, whether they are called'supporting teaching', or it is called special education, which suffers brutally, and at the moment we are in a huge effort to be able in this economic, social and political context to make it the goal of all schools to be excellent. We will have the opportunity to make your proposal - whether we could do more experimental or pilot projects in other cities in the process of drafting the new institution of the Experimental Schools - to be able to discuss this in detail. As I said to you, we are prepared to obtain from the maximum possible consensus and dialogue with the scientific associations, with the parliamentary groups and all those who can offer. To conclude, we will have the opportunity to discuss changes, improvements and objections in order to do our best at this stage in education. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u23	Mr Minister, thank you very much and taking into account your experience and your sensitivity, I hope that the reference to a multi-brand plan will have nothing to do with what we were used to as a multi-brand plan. I hope it is a comprehensive and coherent draft law focusing on education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u25	Mr Marda, you have your honour. There are several questions to which you are scheduled to answer. Some are in the first and some in the second circle. I suggest they all respond together. It is Mr Georgiou Galeos' question, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, Mr Nicholas Michou and Mr Ioannis Koutsou. It's four in total. We will begin with the third question number 4/6-3-2015, first question from the MP Argolis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Georgios Galeios, to the Ministers for Labour and Social Solidarity and Finance, on the letters from the Public Debt Management Agency (PESH) to the insurance funds for the investment of liquid assets in state repos. Mr. Galeos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u26	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Good morning, gentlemen. I have recently read that the Ministry of Labour and Social Solidarity and the Public Debt Management have sent to all insurance institutions, IKA, OGA and 10 others, a document which asks them to invest in state repos the money they currently have, their cash. These are very short-term investments which will be made and what is evident here should be for a fortnight. Of course we have the bad experience of the last government, the reposes are tired and the funds have lost 53% of their contributions. Do we ask you what if the funds need money at the time they are placed in repos? Will there be a financial penalty, will a return be deducted if they get their money back before the repos expires? There was a pre-election commitment by the government to make up for the losses of past haircuts. How will this be done and how will the funds be strengthened? Will responsibilities be sought for those who have cut the Greek funds and have so far been played? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Galeo. Mr Mardas has the floor, the Deputy Minister responsible for answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u28	You probably weren't here yesterday. I don't remember if you were. As you know, there is an amendment that refers to the fact that all the funds can place this money on the Bank of Greece and, of course, they can be invested in repos or in any such securities. In the context of this amendment, the state is coming to cover fully any damage caused to the particular trade. With regard to your question, which I think is answered with this amendment, what I have to say to you is: what is being submitted to the Bank of Greece, firstly, it has a better interest rate than the deposits to commercial banks. In the Bank of Greece we have 2.2% to 2.5%, while in commercial banks we are at 0.5%, 0.6%, 0.7%, 1% at most. What is being submitted has nothing to do with direct payments, so it is money that they have and can therefore be better exploited. I repeat yesterday's amendment, which refers to potential, there is no obligation on the part of these institutions to table their money so that they can make better use of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The honourable Member has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u30	Mr Minister, you will allow me: yesterday I was at the meeting, but from what you can see, the question has been tabled on 6 March and there was no such amendment, at least I did not know it. I would still like to know what will happen? So, what is the purpose of this step, even if it is potentially? I would like to know if it is the stock of the funds, as you claim. Here, from what I read, it says about their fluids. Other cash, cash can also be used for current needs, while reserves are another thing, it is something that remains. Of course, I would agree with you that if these 2% and 2.5% performances are to be achieved, the funds are to be made more attractive. If, however, something needs to be done, could you explain to me how in this case you could act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank the honourable Member. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u32	We refer to cash assets rather than to those used to cover various direct costs or payments. As regards the issues mentioned, in the haircuts in the past, these are not related to this particular process, which is related to cash. You refer to the PSI from what I understand, which is a case, which, in any case, has nothing to do with cash. So, they have some available, they put them in the bank, they take advantage of interest rates. If we need them, we can use them in that we give them repos and use them. Any time they want, they can take that money back. This has been done so far, and I do not think there is any question. Of course, there is a question for OPEKEPE afterwards. But there the problem was that once again the money paid by the OPECE had nothing to do with direct payments had to do with their funds. If there are no payments made by certain bodies, this is not due to the fact that they have no money but to various procedural problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second with 19/10-3-2015 topical question of the second-cycle question of the Athens Parliamentary of New Democracy Mr Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, regarding the amount of the country's debts and the sources of their financing. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I start by saying that as far as we know under the Eurogroup's decision on 20 February, the Greek authorities' request to extend the main Financial Facility Convention (MFFA) was approved, accompanied by a number of commitments. I would like to start by saying that this agreement - we know it, of course, from the text which has been officially published, from what we read in the press - as you will know has not been tabled to Parliament nor to debate nor to vote. This agreement, although I am hearing that there is a request for a document, at least in my own hands and in my remit so far has not been officially reached. I am not only making this introduction to comment on it, if you wish, because else it is the content of my question. I am telling you that I am working with a case of work, which arises from this text, which says that only the adoption of the completion of the evaluation will allow for payment of the remaining dose of the current programme, as well as the transfer of profits, i.e. the well-known SMPs. It also says that the Greek authorities reiterate their unavoidable commitment to honour their financial obligations to all creditors in full and in good time. These are of interest to me, because of course we have some knowledge of what the country's obligations are and I refer to the short-term period, that is, until the end of April, which is of interest because of 20 April, and also until the end of the summer, where I know some numbers, you know them much better. I would like, if you can, to be absolutely specific and with numbers. What I am interested in understanding - let me see - is a little in household terms - is what the country owes to credit obligations. In current commitments wages and pensions are mainly of interest. And where are the revenues to come from to meet these obligations? I think that, despite the fact that the timeliness has been tabled a month ago, it is still, firstly, timely, and, secondly, it is particularly topical in view of the meeting tonight, so if you allow me and if you wish, you could fill out how the Greek side tonight intends to deal with this issue and what is the request to our partners in relation to meeting needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you to the honourable Member. The Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Dimitrios Mardas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u36	I would like to reply to the figures you want, which I assume you know, because they have been made public on several occasions anyway. By the end of August we must return ECU 15.5 billion. As to the method of repayment, it is not just the 7.2 billion that we expected to get. As you know, there is a certain dynamic in terms of the negotiations on the financing of the Greek economy. This dynamic will also develop in this four-day period. We will therefore see the results of all these negotiations, which seek, as you can see, to have such an improvement in liquidity, which can serve all the obligations we have. What I can say is that it is not a source of Greek finance for only 7.2 billion. There are many alternative methods to find some money. This money, this process is the subject of the negotiations that are going on. In conclusion, I would like to point out that all negotiations are pursuing, so that we do not have any gaps in the time it takes. That is the answer I can give you, according to what I have. And I can tell you when a negotiation runs, it's a little difficult in advance to predict how it will end up. We know the goals of negotiating them. From there on it is a negotiation which results in a result in accordance with the objectives and restrictions it faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Anna Michelle Asmakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u38	Minister, you're not helping me. Of course, I knew that it was 15.5 billion, and, of course, I knew there was an agreement, which provided for a next 7.2 billion, and I know what SMPs are and, of course, we all know that, because it has become common to discuss things that we in this country were never discussing a few years ago. I asked you something very specific, I asked you where you'd find this money. First of all, you see, I am very careful not to go into any contradictory statements. I'm just going to give one example to be reluctant. At first you said that the 7.2 billion - not you personally - may not need them at all. I assume from your position - and I do not want to blame you - that we need this money and we want it. I know that in order to meet the needs of the country - which are not 15.5 billion, because you have certainly not put the country's current obligations in my mind, so we need more money not only of 15.5 billion - there are various sources. One is to resort to the markets. I think that there is no possibility at the moment. The other is to be financed by our partners, by what they owe us - a way of saying that - what was, anyway, anticipated the programme. The other is the State's revenue. A bill has been tabled, for example, which will be discussed in a few hours in the committee on the hundred instalments, of which there is obviously some revenue expectation, with a planning of when these revenues will come to the state, as was the case yesterday in the amendment that we voted on to regulate expressly, with the end date on 27 March. So what I ask, if I have not been clear - and allow the expression, although we are in Parliament - is more 'three in oil and three in vinegar'. Of course, I understand that you are through a very difficult negotiation for the country and I do not ask you to reveal aspects of your strategy in the negotiation, which are for the benefit of our country. What I am asking you to do, however, is a little more specific, namely to tell me that it is 15.5 billion plus the needs of the state, we hope that the negotiation will be successful - and I hope you will - and the result will be 7.2 billion, we expect that the state's revenue will be those, as we have looked at the budget - because you had two months to see the figures - from regulation to take so much. So I will feel an account that gives us all a certainty that the needs of the state will be settled - and I refer to wages and pensions, recognizing that there are explicit assurances on the part of the Government that this is not a matter - and also that we will not find ourselves in a situation to be provoked for everyone, I believe, a credit event, which means that we have reached a point to choose that what we have, what to do about them? Wages and pensions or should we pay our obligations?'. I believe that you, too, are seeking to give it to society and, of course, I seek, representing the citizens who have voted for me and not only, to be able to give a clear answer to the people who are anxiously asking me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou. Mr. Dimitris Mardas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u40	When various negotiations are going on and there are alternative funding scenarios, which are also from the monetary relaxation of the European Central Bank or from anywhere else, which the government knows, but, as you said, in the context of a strategy that is evolving within a negotiation, it is difficult to find some evidence, I can tell you that the accuracy you are asking for at the moment is a little difficult to give, because there are negotiations. Also, along with the hundred doses soon you will see that other bills will come, which will bring more money to the state. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Therefore, we know what is going on with regard to the potential sources from which we can get money, a negotiation is being concluded these days, and we will see exactly where it will end from there and beyond, we will have a cleaner landscape so that we know exactly what we need. I also repeat that we will also know the alternative sources of financing for the Greek economy, which is also developing in the context of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the third with number 11/9-3-2015 a top-level question for the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikolaos Michou to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy and the Finance, on late payments relating to agricultural subsidies. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. We have a very serious issue about the EUR 200 million that had to go to farmers. At a time when our country is experiencing a deep economic and social crisis, your Government is choosing an easy solution for farmers' money to meet other needs. All of this is done at a time when farmers are already in despair by experiencing an unfavourable economic situation. This made it known that in more than 200m euros, the money coming from social programmes for Greek farmers is calculated and is expected to be changed to be used by the state to meet the financial needs. In accordance with that Decision, the cash assets of the competent Community Guidance and Guarantee Fund and OPEKEAP should be transferred from commercial banks to the Bank of Greece in order to benefit from the State’s financial needs. So are the relevant ministers asking us: bearing in mind that payments relating to agricultural subsidies and programmes have already been delayed, why is it that the easy way to bleed money for farmers is chosen and on the basis of what reasonable money is earmarked for farmers to pay for other obligations? Secondly, will the OPECE payments continue unnecessarily without any further delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Micho. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u44	As I have said before, any transfer you make relates to the available. It has nothing to do with the need for direct payments. Therefore, another direct payments and direct obligations of any organisation or body and its resources. If there is a problem of payments right now from the OPEKEPE side, this is not related to what happened. OPEKEPE at the moment has money to meet its needs. What we know is that there are several procedural problems that have delayed payments, from money that is in existence and do not need to intervene in the available funds, so that they can obtain from there the money they have given to the Bank of Greece, so that they can pay their obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u46	Then why are these delays when there are farmers right now when they don't have to feed their animals? I happen to have a small feed business, and I live it every day. There is no money to feed animals on the one hand and, on the other, there is also a great delay in the milk products that have not been paid. They are paid by six-monthly and three-monthly checks, which are no longer traded. These aids were expected to go ahead. We know very well. We are talking about the primary sector and when we talk about the primary sector, if there is growth in this part, in farmers and farmers, there will also be growth in our country's economy. You know that very well. And you, Mr Varoufakis, know very well - you were in Australia twelve years - that a large part of Australia's economy depends too much on sheep's wool. There are very large exports and Australia's economy has a very big profit on this thing. We're throwing the hair over here. Something needs to be done to help this particular part of farmers and farmers, so that the economy can get ahead and not eliminate these jobs. Because with this primary sector, if it goes well, it can start automatically and secondary production, such as tanning, such as small and large crafts that can make leather, etc. Do not let farmers and farmers like this, because they will start starving too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u47	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u48	As far as agricultural policy is concerned, you understand that I am not competent to answer you. With regard to the financial aspect that you put forward, I repeat that the OPECE has at the moment money to pay. Just there are some procedural problems. We know what he has and know what he has. There are several procedural problems which have led to a transfer of payments, as far as we are aware of the President of the OPECE.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, I have the honour to inform the House of the current questions on Friday 20 March 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 18/10-3-2015 topical question by MP Evros of the New Republic, Anastasios Purchas, to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the treatment of the repeated floods in the Prefecture of Evros. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 36/10-3-2015 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on direct and effective assistance to the flood victims in the region of Epirus and Itolokarnania. 3. The 30/10-3-2015 topical question of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Member of Parliament, to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the transfer of funds from OPEKEPE and the payment of agricultural aid. The seventh question under number 2/6-3-2015 will be discussed, second time, by the Member of the Ilias of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Mr Giannis Koutsoukos, to the Minister of Finance, on the progress of revenues, divergences from budget objectives and the coverage of the public's financial needs. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u50	Mr Minister and Mr Vice-President, who are today responsible for answering, you are very well aware that the proceeds of revenue in December and especially in January and February in particular, determine to a large extent the results of the budget. We now have the official figures - because when I tabled the timely question, we had information - a significant decline in revenue in December, about one billion. Another so much we had Genaris and a balance took place in February, possibly because of the "patriotic" call made by Mr. Tsipras from the Step of the House, because until then, the perception of SYRIZA was "I don't pay, even if I have". This lack of income in the critical months, obviously also due to the election climate, but also to this perception that has been cultivated. I note that in the critical month of October, when we brought the regulation for the hundred instalments to incur money to the insurance funds and to the public, SYRIZA tabled the proposal for a law on the so-called "slaughtiness", where it would make capital cuts based on the three-member committees that would create per prefecture. In this climate, therefore, it was natural that there was a very significant drop in revenue. And in order for the government to deal with it, it started draining all the funds available to all the public bodies - whether they were the insurance funds or OPECE and other organisations - which, of course, may not have a direct impact on payments, but effectively deprives money from the real economy. So my timely question is, Minister. How will you deal with these financial needs that you have referred to? Because we note that from Mr Varoufakis' announcement that we do not want the doses and that we are sufficient, you have been in the process of negotiating, in order to have liquidity as you have just said to us. We are therefore waiting for your reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Mardas, the Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u52	The question you asked me in writing was what the proceeds of revenue are and what the divergences from the budget objectives - and I will answer them to you - and what measures the government will take. First of all, you understand that if in 2014 there are discrepancies from what was planned, you should - I will say - from the previous government. Indicate the following for 2014. While a primary surplus of 3% had been anticipated, we arrived according to the ESA, European System of Accounts, at 1.5%. If we take into account the commitments of the programme you signed, this primary surplus according to the figures we have now and are provisional - because we still do not have all the data - has gone down to 0.3% or 0.4%. Also, a reduction in revenues did not only have in December 2014. Reductions in revenue began a little earlier. We're coming in 2015, where we're taking over. Admittedly, in January, there is a reduction in revenue in relation to the targets of 935 million. Flevaris, we are relatively well - I can say - because the deviation is only 28 million. In the first ten days of March, we have very positive results. Of course, it is too early to draw safe conclusions according to this first ten days. This is therefore the part of the revenue. Of course, it would also be appropriate to see the expenditure side, because the budget has two parts. There, as I have announced in the House, another class is introduced into the country's budget. We have about four thousand seven hundred seven hundred codes we're investigating. They have nothing to do with wage costs. They relate to operating costs, consumer spending and public procurement in general. We are trying to lead to a savings of the waste that still exists. Yesterday I brought some examples to the House. We therefore need to see both arms. Since we have had a problem with regard to the revenue side, if we can compensate for this by reducing waste on the expenditure side, you can see that the results are not as strong as they appear only on the revenue side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and two teachers attending from the 1st Edessa High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I was expecting the Minister's answer in relation to the responsibilities of the previous government. After all, I read it in the non paper released by Maximos. Apparently, you've written it. But I don't think you're in opposition anymore. You are a government and as the election results show, the world more listened to SYRIZA in December, despite the government. I believe that the rhetoric of SYRIZA since October, which we had the arrangement for the hundred instalments, "do not pay, we will make cuts even capital", "broken" by the SYRIZA executives in the media, had a negative effect on the revenue history. And it is not right to rejoice, Minister, because we have not reached the objective of the primary surplus, because that will be in front of you in relation to the budget gap in the discussions that are currently taking place with our partners. Obviously, it is very important that we have surpluses and it may be legitimate to disagree about how much the surplus is but think that, to get there, we were fighting with New Democracy in 2009 on the level of the deficit for billions. We were saying 36 and they were saying 15. This is as far as 2014 is concerned. In 2015, you truly recognised the drop in revenues in Genarris. I talked about a balance in February and you tell us we're going better in March. But in any case, what Mr Drasakis said last night, speaking at a television station, is true, that we will have a liquidity problem if the negotiations are not going well. You also stressed it in your reply to the previous colleague who asked a question. What I would like to express as anguish is whether addressing the public's financial needs can be done by draining the available resources, which means what? It means that we deprive this money of the banks' deposits, so from the real economy and from liquidity, and we increase the cost of money, because the banks then resort to the ELA, so that they have a elementary liquidity. With the dropper, of course, she too. That's the cost of the economy, who's gonna pay for it? I would therefore like to say that we are indeed in a real deadlock, as evidenced by the revenue course, and of course the problem is not dealt with either by the internal cessation of payments. You referred to the cost reduction. We fought for the cost cut and SYRIZA was across, no matter what we did, the medicine and elsewhere. I wish you too could find wastes to cut them, but it is another thing to cut wastes and ask the financial control services not to pay. This money is also missing from the real economy. So I repeat the question. How will you deal with the problems, as evidenced by the debate we are having, and the course of negotiation? So we've joined the view of even a dose or a piece of dose, otherwise we're gone. Is that, Minister, reality?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u56	Clearly, we're not happy about what we inherited. You will have noticed, of course, that we were very careful when we made the announcements here in the House on a primary surplus. In other words, the mistake made in census before, this is not going to be repeated and we did not repeat it. And that is what we are sending out and what we are writing. You referred to a press release, which sent Maximos, as you said, but last day we sent a press release too technically written to understand what the world is doing. Because here we are talking about primary surpluses and people still don't know what the primary surplus is. And I can tell you that too many who are generally circulating in parties, etc., still do not know what the primary surplus is. We have given a technical text, and there we have given a lot of details of the primary surplus, which relates to the programme and the ESA, which if we did not provide this information, no one would understand what it was about. Therefore, we are certainly not pleased, because we inherited them, but we did not highlight them as the known census had previously emerged. With regard to the question you asked about how to deal with the problem of liquidity - of course, it was not a part of your question, it does not matter - I think I gave Mrs Asmakopoulou enough answers a few minutes ago. There is therefore no reason to repeat these questions again. A part of your question was about the primary surplus target. As far as the primary surplus of 2015 is concerned, it is part of the negotiation, i.e. where the primary surplus is to be solved in the near future, and this will be the point of reviewing the medium-term programmes that have been in place for so long. In the end, a medium-term programme is now being built, which has as a starting point what we had in 2014. It is a starting point, a'restriction point', we often say. From that point on, it is preparing with these elements, bearing in mind our new policies and bearing in mind a primary surplus, which we believe will be agreed between 0-1.5%. We will reach a point before the estimates in March - April and from there on completion of the negotiations, we will be able to make the last adjustments very quickly and complete our medium-term programme, where new policies will be integrated, in line with what has been decided at the level of a primary surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u58	I am sorry, Mr President, that I still have one question, which has been tabled by the Independent Greeks, which has to do with privatizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u59	He's not here the co-worker who made it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u60	Oh, he's not here. My questions are therefore over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u61	We have no such question here, nor do the services have such a question, Mr Marda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u62	No, it's in the newsletter of the topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u63	We've already had enough of you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u64	No, you didn't. However, there is one question left unanswered and it would be very important to answer it. If there's no question...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u65	There's no further question, Mr. Marda. We continue with the sixth timely question, first cycle with number 29/10-3-2015 of the MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Finance, concerning the existence or non-request of a request from the Greek authorities for a two-month technical extension of the memorandum and its content. Mr Mavragani, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the timely question is simple, I think you have understood it. Since 13.3.2012, that famous contract between the Financial Stability Fund of the European Union and the Hellenic Republic had been signed with the Bank of Greece for the granting of 50 billion euros in the direction of the bank recapitalisation and the surplus of this recapitalisation was about 10.9 billion euros. Please, Minister, answer me if there is a copy of the application submitted by the Ministry of Finance and the Board of Directors of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund to the European Financial Stability Fund for the two-month extension, the application itself and its content, because it is of great interest to see on what terms and clauses these 10.9 billion on 28 February have been returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Mavragani, when we received your question, I asked the Ministry's services to find the copy of the letter. I'm giving you the answer they gave me. So I was told that this copy does not exist, that it is in Mr Hardouveli's personal secret protocol, which he took with him. I was told, of course, that I must stress - and I am glad to do so - that this act was perfectly legitimate. The Minister - I didn't know that - has the right to what is part of his personal, confidential protocol - to take it with him after he has been removed from his service from the Ministry. I would like to tell you on this occasion as a new Member and a new Minister, as a new politician, that this is a practice which is inconsistent with a favoured state. I'm not talking personally about Mr. Hardouvelis. I will share with you, with this House, and another information, which is extremely worrying and convicted of the discontinuance of our state. I imagine that this is not only the case in the case of the transition from the previous government to us. I think this is a general malignancy of the Greek state, the Greek state. Something needs to be done to change it. I asked for the loan contract. It took three and a half days to find her. There was no Treasury. The other day I asked for the initial and subsequent loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund. I had myself to make contact with the International Monetary Fund in Washington to get it. This is an image that I really think should make us all sad. I would like to believe - I wish and commit - that when I leave the Ministry of Finance, the next one will not find this absolute gap where there should be evidence, documents and work tools to start working immediately afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Mavraani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u70	Minister, I understand your surprise and psychological shock, which I share. However, apart from the fact that I do not want and cannot dispute it, the Minister may have the right to maintain a secret protocol or, in any case, to keep confidential information in his protocol, when it relates to a personal letter, I will not degrade this document to a letter, because that was not the case. If it were to be signed as such, his meaning and concept were applications from the Hellenic Republic, and indeed very important, which was to blame for the negotiations, which gave the German diplomacy a chance to move the finger. In any case, if he is entitled to receive a copy of that document, the Hellenic Republic, as part of the economic diplomacy, shall also have a copy of the archives. I beg you, Minister, to abdicate the former Minister and to notify his failure - I consider that to be a failure - not to leave a copy of the record of the country's economic diplomacy and to communicate this report to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay. It is a flood, which also involves criminal times. I want everyone to understand that this document is not a letter. It is an official request from the Hellenic Republic of particular importance, economic and diplomatic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. Mr. Varoufakis, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u72	You will allow me to tell you that, despite the fact that my surprise and anger - particularly the matter of the absence of a copy of the country's loan contract with the International Monetary Fund - was almost infinite at that time, I will not give up on Mr Hardouvelis. And that's for a simple reason. I think we all have to abdicate ourselves because we have tolerated this legal vacuum. No Minister should have the right to deprive his ministry and the public record of such documents. So we must legislate immediately, and I hope and hope that there is no wing of Parliament to disagree with this piece of legislation, which will start to heal some of the major gaps that concern public administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The seventh will be discussed under number 6/10-3-2015 first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health and Social Security, on the problem of the members of the Free Professional Insurance Agency. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Army, is here and will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. However, I found it the main Financial Facility Convention in Chora, as well as its extension, pressing the Hellenic Parliament.gr and the minutes of the House, which has ratified the first and second conventions. Mr. Varoufakis is still looking for her in the forums! I don't want to say anything else. There's the minutes of the House, so let's not get involved in the paperwork. There's no need for a legacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u75	On this subject, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u76	It must, however, bring the one he signed, so that we know it, so that we do not have the same phenomena, such as trimming. Mr President, it is indeed a timely question, not only because of the problems that I am referring to but also because, in these days, there is mobility and initiative from the Ministry to deal with some. In particular, for the Free Professional Insurance Agency, a great deal of discussion has been held for a long time about some of the interventions and arrangements that could, on the one hand, bring revenue and, on the other hand, make it easier for insured persons to get caught on account of specific issues. First of all, it is the monthly rather than the bimonthly payment. While it has been passed by the House, while a decision has been taken by the OAU Board of Directors, for several reasons its implementation has not begun. The second issue is the regulation of debts in a hundred instalments which is draft law and is timely, but it seems that it does not include everything we have said in the previous period, which was proposed by the ERCG and the GUE/NGL. We need to see, beyond the regulation in the House that came today, what is the intention of further regulation on the part of the Ministry. Let us see if the possibility for the lower tiles can be disconnected to a percentage, at least from the negative effects on the insured and, above all, the issue of the caging of people in pre-retirement period - and that is the main question - that so far can be regulated up to EUR 20,000. We ask if this wall can or should have been decided by the Ministry to increase it, at least EUR 40,000 as required or otherwise, if it does not, what does it think about addressing the problem that is unfortunately facing many thousands of insured people who are locked up? We had dealt with this issue in the previous period and the current government as opposition and the OAU's Board of Directors itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme of the Hellenic Republic, organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and a trainer from the 1st Elementary School of New Psychics. The House welcomes them. Mr. Army has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u78	I thank Mr Kegeroglu for the five questions he raised to me. I think they're issues that concern the free professionals and I'll answer one - one. The first is why the law has not yet been implemented, according to which self-employed and freelance professionals should pay their contributions per month and not every two months. I've been looking into it since the first day I took over this portfolio. The point I made was that there were delays from the part of the HICP - legitimate from what I was told - to resolve certain technical issues concerning the introduction of the new information system. I asked them how much time they wanted and they told me they needed three months. I have therefore given three months to implement the new system since 1 June 2015. Mr Kegeroglu, of course, knew that this malfunction existed. I am not criticising him, because it is not a political issue, it is a matter of operating information systems. But, likewise, I found the same problem ahead of me. In any case, Mr Kegeroglu, on 1 June, I have been assured that it will be implemented. With regard to the second issue, namely the regulation of debts in a hundred instalments, the answer is that today at noon we shall begin the debate on the bill as a matter of urgency. The improvements in relation to the current arrangement of the previous government which expires on 31 March are as follows: Firstly, while there was a limit to the one hundred instalments, only those who owe up to EUR 15 000, now there is no such limit. No matter how much one owes the insurance funds, he can enter the new arrangement. Secondly, while under the current arrangement of the previous government, if you were to enter the arrangement with instalments, you would now have an annual interest rate of 4.56%, if you owe up to 5,000 euros, and if you owe more than 5,000 euros - instead of 4,56% interest, which is in force in the previous government - it will have an annual interest rate of 3%. Also, if you choose to repay one-off debt to the insurance funds, you will have cancelled 100% of the surcharges, interest and other charges they have incurred. If you choose to pay in one or thirty-six instalments you will have deleted 80% of increments, in thirty-seven to fifty instalments you will have deleted 70%. If one chooses to repay his debt to the insurance funds in seventy-three hundred instalments, one will have deleted interest increases, fines and 50% fees compared to 20% currently in force with the previous government regulation. Finally, dues come in and by 2 March 2015, so problems that were raised by both Mr Mavragani and others, as well as problems encountered by firms at risk of closure, etc, will be solved by this particular regulation and by the five improvements that we made in relation to what was in place until 31 March. They will be able to enter the arrangement by the end of April. It will be an arrangement with a short time horizon. The aim, Mr Kegeroglu, is for the insurance funds to have revenues. The Ministry's Directorate-General for Finance has said that this year's revenues will be 1.46 billion, because we also give those who were in previous regulations the opportunity to enter. Therefore, with previous and new regulations, we will have revenues of 1,46 billion. And we'll have around 350 to 500 million euros for the remaining eight years that the hundred monthly instalments are going to take, because it's a little over eight years. Mr President, forgive me for overcoming time but they were very timely questions and want time to be answered. The rest I'm going to analyze in my dentistry so I won't be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u80	Well, I heard some - positive things in the 'MEGA' in the morning, which you are informing, so it is easier to do our work in Parliament. Maybe we should ask questions another way! I would like to clarify, because the Minister made a reference, that I did not have the authority for the insurance funds. I'm not asking myself a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u81	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u82	On the subject to which the Minister referred about the start of the monthly payment, I would say that he was starting in March.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u83	I know. That's why I gave three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u84	I think Mr. Bess was in charge and he had made the relevant decision. Unfortunately, it has not been understood that while it is the same amount as a sum, the management of the available assets each operator has to meet its obligations when the payment is monthly, it is much easier and provides a way out. They had been "cooled" once and said, "we'll increase the cost if we send the alarms." If that's possible! Couldn't leave in two months the same alert, so two alerts with a mission? I don't know. It is an issue, however, posed by professionals and merchants for too long. Now, I do not want to say about the issues involved in the regulation, which has been tabled, because it will also be a matter for the committee. I'll only make one report. While it was for four steps, they finally became three. The question, however, is whether the two hundred and fifty thousand in prison should be given the opportunity to ask for their entry in lower tiles and then to pay for or adjust the instalments so that they can be better able and efficient for both the fund and their own. It's a basic question. Because if we do not allow everyone in advance to be able to join lower tiers, but then, once they have set or paid, they will be a little more - very much like what is currently in force, which is not easy. The great point I am very interested in having a specific answer today, Mr Minister, is the pre-retirement arrangement for the debts that have been captured by many thousands, who cannot be retired. Up to EUR 20,000 together with the surcharges - if I remember correctly - it is now entitled to regulate, which are of course retained by the pension. But if the debts are 40,000 or 50,000 euros, it must give the rest cash. If this is increased, if it is doubled, etc., it will also give the possibility of revenues to the fund, but at the same time it will help to decapitate the insured, so that they can receive their pensions. There is another thought: to calculate, as long as the conditions of the contributions paid for years are met, the pension based on the contributions already paid, plus the EUR 20,000 currently in force, for pension to come out and for pension to retain the remaining contributions due, which have not even been taken into account for pension purposes. This is a cost-free solution, because it will not get any more 'weight' pension - supposedly - of the consequences. It is an issue that concerns many members of the EUPM, which is not included in the regulation. And we would like an answer and if all these arrangements that you are proposing for the OAU - a reduction in scales, pre-retirement arrangement, etc. - they will be applied to both the OGA and the Self-employed Fund, the EFF, which have essentially common characteristics with the OAU. They are common characteristics, for example, of the CSMEDE, the Legal Fund and the Free Professional Fund. There are pre-retirement debts and all that. There will be similar arrangements, reduction of scales, etc.Huh? Also for OGA, is there a question of reducing stadiums, if the farmer chooses it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u86	Very briefly, when it comes to making contributions to the OSCE monthly, we are in agreement. And I can confirm what I said before, that, because they were invoking technical problems, we have given them three months and, finally, we have given them a deadline of 1 June to start this way of paying contributions. Secondly, in order to be able at this time of crisis to choose the self-employed insurers, in order to give relatively lower contributions each month, you had taken an initiative and had given the option by the end of 2016 to be able to take down two insurance steps. In the draft law which is being discussed at 2 noon on the rules, we are giving the opportunity to take another step, namely to go to less than three. And we give this possibility directly, because it is in the same law as the regulations. So, in current contributions, they will go three scales lower so that they can set themselves up and respond. I do not hide you, Mr Kegeroglu, that we in the Ministry are open to the proposal made by the GSE and the ESS for this difficult period - not always - to give the right to a free choice of insurance, voluntarily, because anyway, they will have an impact on their pension. On Monday or Tuesday, we will discuss the relevant committee of Parliament to approve the position of the new commander, the well-known and approved worker of Tasos Petropoulos. Yesterday we held a meeting and said that the first thing to do is to look at the proportionate studies done by the EU and the GFCM on the issue of free choice. The OAU will do a study on this matter as well. And later we will be ready to see whether we can go to more brave solutions on this, to extend the insurance base, and to be able to get into insurance and tens of thousands of self-employed people who at the moment can't do it, not because they don't want it, but why they can't afford to respond. The last thing you said is very important. We found it as a legacy, as a very big problem from the previous Minister of Labour and the previous governments. You personally did not have the power to do that. There are thousands of self-employed and self-employed professionals who have fulfilled retirement conditions, but owe their insurance fund above the law limit, that is, 20,000 euros. One of the priorities that the new commander will have, with which I told you that we met yesterday and made a specific planning, is that an amendment should come as soon as possible - the purpose of our ministry is to bring it to the end of March - which would decapitate these people. The thinking is to raise the limit of 20,000 and at the same time a large proportion of the retrospectives to take the insurance fund. They agree themselves. Also, one quarter of their pension is held on the basis of both the proposals and the GFCM and the EUSY. So they themselves will be retired, but also the self-employed insurance funds, where none of them will be collected. Finally, Mr Kegeroglu, we have been doing a very important part of something we have unfortunately found from previous governments and which has been in place for many decades. We denounce the debt of the self-employed to their insurance funds for their own contributions and pensions. It was juda's forced law. With this regulation bill, we make this negligence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u87	Those who've been in jail for this reason are going out?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Kegeroglu, matters are not over. You will discuss this in private with the Minister. We have more questions. Colleagues are waiting. We still have two topical questions addressed to the Minister, Mr Skourletis. The first question under number 22/10-3-2015 will be discussed now by the Second Cycle MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannidis to the Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, concerning the non-payment for years of workers due to the "Macedonian Metal Industry S.A.". Mr Karayannides, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. This company "Macedonian Metal Industries S.A." is a classic case of the 2000-2010 gold decade, where various skeviks, frauds, eagles plundered public money, took the money and left. This company completed the first phase of investment in 2001. It took 2.23,000 euros. He started working the factory. 2005 still receives EUR 1,640 000, i.e. about 4,000,000 euros in total. In 2006, problems in the company begin as they do not pay wages and insurance funds. And in 2007, Mr. Giuliano - this is Italian - leaves the factory in his fate and the workers, of course, in an even more difficult fate. He leaves them unpaid and they're not fired. For a long time these workers have been hostages of the labour force, cannot receive unemployment benefit and are due to money. Let me tell you about the goodwill of the workers, that at the end of 2006, and while they are unpaid, they work two months - November and December - to deliver the factory an order abroad and they are not paid for it either. From there on, GSEE, local government and Ministry have been deaf for about nine years. I also want to inform you that this is a question I have been struggling with for two and a half years to discuss. I had asked a question about the previous leadership of the Ministry of Labour and I did not get an answer. The Treasury's not answering, because this operation has criminally contributible evidence. No one's in control. The Greek state has auctioned the factory and we do not know the outcome of the auction. We do not know what happened to this company's machinery and assets. Workers have been waiting all these years. Let me say that the accident is that some workers have died waiting. We therefore want to know what the Ministry of Labour is prepared to do about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr Karayannides. Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karayannides, as you rightly pointed out, the case of the company "Macedonian Metal Industries S.A." is a typical case of a series of companies, which, unfortunately, increase time by month. These companies either go bankrupt or business owners disappear, so there are legal decisions which justify workers, but they are never, for example, paid for, because, for example, the company's assets are not sufficient. And regardless of whether they have been subject to bankruptcy, workers have been in a situation where they have not been receiving their money for months and do not receive unemployment benefits. So we are faced with one, one would say, which at the moment, with the legal framework in question, is not capable of dealing with it. So the point is what we're doing. We believe first of all that this situation cannot be socially and politically tolerated by the Ministry of Labour and, of course, by the government as a whole. Already as a Ministry, we have taken the initiative with other co-legislative ministries and we are in a relative process of legislative initiatives, which must of course set their target changes to the Banking Code itself, so that we can now see how to find ways and formulas, so that in such cases we can ensure the continuity of the operation. In view of this, of course, one must do so, bearing in mind that there are also the demands of workers who do not want to go into a sense of doing business themselves and contribute to their continued operation, and therefore they must not be lost, nor, of course, of this kind of final practice, if they can be implemented, should they not be the alibi to lose the debts of entrepreneurs to the funds. I have tried to outline all the problems, to see how difficult this case is and that it requires just a joint work of the relevant ministries. Of course, here it will be useful to study the experience of other countries, where they have had many such examples. We are not only talking about countries outside Europe, but also about our neighbouring countries, such as our neighbour Italy. On its part, the Ministry has taken a number of actions. Over twenty-five audits of the Labour Inspectorate have been carried out in this operation. There's been five lawsuits and they've been sent to the D.A. Of course, all this has not helped and the problem remains. Therefore, your question must trigger us all so that we can quickly enter such a logic as I described previously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u93	So according to the answer, Minister, I have two specific analyses. The first is that the Greek State must, in accordance with its decisions, demand EUR 1,114 000 which is Mr Giulano's due date and also had requested reimbursement of the EUR 1,640 000 grant. We are talking about about about 3 million euros. Because Mr Giulano happens to be an Italian national, and because I imagine that Italy is also in the European Union, there should be an effort to ask for this money because we also have trade relations, but also justice relations with Italy. I must also say that Mr Giulano did the same business in another region of western Macedonia. I mean, he's got a past crook. In a way, therefore, there must be cooperation with the Italian authorities - and with the financial and police authorities - so that this gentleman can be found. This is a debt to the Greek State, which exceeds three and a half million euros. So we have to find him. The second thing I would like to say is that I understand from what you said that there can also be a debate with the former workers in the Macedonian Metal Industry S.A., but also with other workers from Drama, so that workers, if they want to agree, can take them into their own hands. So we have to have an image - and here I call on you to check - that this industry is being set up in order to see what is in place and that a census is being carried out. If this can work, we can invite the workers to a meeting at the Ministry and with other workers made redundant - I am bringing to my mind the workers of SOFTEX who, with the help of the Ministry of Labour and, obviously, the Ministry of Finance, have the same problem and are more intense because they are coming before us - to have a debate so that we can start such a process if this operation and other businesses in the Drama Prefecture can - and obviously also with the help of the Ministry of Finance with facilities - end up under the control of their employees. I would like to say that this factory had a monopoly on producing tanks and other metallic objects in the Balkans. In other words, it was a factory that could be productive, already exporting products and having enough jobs. I am waiting for your promise that we will be able to hold a meeting at the Ministry so that at least, as unemployment is at the moment in Drama Prefecture, we can take a small step forward in giving hope and courage - if anything - to the people who have been experiencing this story for ten years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Karayannides. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u95	Mr Karayannides, I think that what would ultimately be useful from today's debate here is for each of us to be able to encourage just such initiatives. I understand that in the end your role and your role are to mediate between the workers and the political leadership, so that we can get in touch. I am telling you, for example, that we have already had a debate on the 'BIOME' case two weeks ago, where there are real estate problems with its subsidiary 'FILKERAM' and at risk of a very worthwhile - and successful one would say - an example of the operation of the company's workers at the moment to stop because of the existing institutional system. I therefore believe that things are very serious and require all of us to move in the direction that you, too, have put in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. We enter the fifth under number 32/10-3-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, on the reduction of wages of up to 38% in NESTLE. Mr Katsotis has the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u97	Yeah, that's the question. The multinational 'NESTLE' has reduced wages through individual contracts of employment with the gun at the top of the workers up to 38%. Minister, I know you've been meeting at the Ministry. You've discussed the matter. You have complicated the operation for this decision. However, there are other things that are said and what is done in practice. And what is being done is the monopolistic groups, multinationals, to ensure maximum profit through the use of the whole legislative framework, but also the freedom that their power gives them, so as to increase their profits. So, at 'NESTLE', as you will see in the question, apart from individual contracts, we have rotating work, we have two days and three days work for workers, we have redundancies and redundancies of workers through contractors, we have shifts of workers from factory to factory - one to work at the Tavros, one to the Oinofytas - and a lot of other changes and overturns in labour relations, in order to increase its profitability, strengthen the competitiveness of the company in Greece and worldwide. The figures, of course, of profitability are also known. It's a big deal of profitability. We are now asking you what you are going to do so that the company does not actually have the possibility of exercising such forms of exploitation on the workers, who are in a weak position, and the Ministry will have to see what it should do, because the rebuke, beyond that I think the legislative framework is such that it enables the multinational to do all these actions. Therefore, individual contracts of employment should be abolished here, for example. It is something you have said that is unacceptable. However, what we are talking about is not the same thing. Of course, on the question of the application of collective agreements, they should be compulsory, they should be applied. There should also be checks by the Ministry of Labour as to whether the contracts are actually in place or are being circumvented within workplaces. We would like your answer on that. What are you going to do in order, in fact, for the multinationals not to implement this decision on the reduction of wages?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, with your question you are making it easier for me to answer because you have described exactly the facts as they have been. In fact, in the very early days when we took the responsibility of the Ministry, we met with the employees of NESTLE, and we heard them directly and held a trialogue on our own initiative on 13 February, i.e. last month. Things are the way they are, but here - I imagine - we are not just coming to analyse known intentions that may exist from entrepreneurs, but to see specifically what we can do about the problem. The Labour Inspectorate has already checked whether there has been an infringement of the legislation in force and whether what the workers say is that there has been a blockade of their trade union activity. We have tabled our views to this company, saying that in the light of our well-known and publicly formulated intentions of change in the institutional framework governing collective agreements, it is unexplainable that their own initiative and their pressure on workers to sign individual contracts of employment. What was finally made possible through the tripartite meeting that took place is firstly that the specific reductions should not apply in 2015 and that they should be referred back to the end of the year. But be careful to see. Once the new institutional framework governing collective agreements has been passed, all these individual contracts will become void, will not have effect. This is, of course, once a collective agreement has been signed on the sector. I therefore consider this to be a'soft' move on the part of this employer. The second thing that has at least been committed and we hope that the company will, after pressure from our Ministry, make a commitment to all jobs. It is, of course, an undertaking that has no harm but profitability. They certainly claim that their profitability has decreased. However, this cannot justify the company's practice towards workers at all. I would like to say that sincerely, it was not the Ministry's attitude to the intentions and interests of the employer, as you said in your question. I think that is also what we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u100	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u101	Minister, what the Minister's answer is is what is going on in practice. The question is whether the Ministry has any other scope to impose something different from what it says. For example, it calls on the company to slow down the reductions and the company says "Okay, I want to have a reduced salary and give the bonus in three instalments". It is, of course, a bonus which will certainly reduce the income of the workers, because it will be granted as a bonus and therefore taxation will be much higher. The company, therefore, does not want to have the sectoral salary, but the wage it imposed on the individual contracts and on the gun on the workers' head. So the question is this: Your Government accepts individual employment contracts, and so it is in the hands of every businessman and every multinational to impose the jungle on terms of pay and work, or you will indeed say that you are directly abolishing individual employment contracts. In fact, this can be done with an amendment, which says that individual contracts of employment are being abolished. What easier if this really is your will? Look, Minister. The multinational 'NESTLE', like other multinationals, aim to maximise their profits. In such an environment, therefore, where their sovereignty is not called into question, as is the strategies of competitiveness and maximum profit, it cannot be done otherwise. Previously, the MP of your party said about the self-management of a business. You yourself, Mr Colleague, said that the 'BIOME' has problems and that it would probably be closed. Can there be socialist businesses in capitalism? Can NESTLE now implement another policy, which you want, by which you invite healthy entrepreneurs to an agreement, in order to have good wages, not to lay off and have good working relations? They don't do this with wishfulness. The responsibilities here are specific and they are political responsibilities. Or, then, we abolish this legislative framework laid down by the implementing laws that level the rights of workers or others are 'other words to be loved'. And here the workers really want answers to this jungle imposed by each business group and every multinational, in order to maximize their profits and, of course, the workers have the consequences they have and you say "on the one hand, we give all this legislative framework that will create poverty and impoverishment, and on the other, we say, "Come here to give you a dish or, in any case, to have the signals to get the care". Those who have two and three days of work here on a rotating basis how will they be treated, how will they have it? What about them? So these are the issues. And on that with a question, I think that there are many sides, it is not a question of answering now, but it is a legislative framework which the workers are claiming to overturn, what has been done so far, they are claiming solutions. Of course, we know very well that it is a matter of correlation between the power and the development of workers' struggles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. The Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity Mr Panagiotis Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u103	First of all, Mr Katsotis, I am pleased that you recognize the need to demand - and in the present capitalist conditions - solutions, so you are a little inconsistent with what you said before that 'but, well, it is possible to change some things as far as capitalism is concerned'. Let these questions be answered by the movement, the history and the theorists and indeed see what possibilities are available today for workers to regain things, because before the labour regime, the regime governing labour relations, things were better for the workers in this respect, they had guns in their hands. In the years of the Memorandum these weapons were removed. So we intend to give these weapons back to the movement, not to replace the movement. It's a distinct role. This is our intention and you saw it here and the day after the elections through our specific programming commitments. So I repeat that, if things are done - and they will be done - as we have announced, that is to say soon, by the end of the month, the draft law on new collective agreements and the signature of the respective collective agreement of the branch, all of these individual contracts will have no effect. Do we agree on that? We all agree, they all know, and the employer and the workers know it. I therefore propose that you put back on this, at least in this particular case, to keep your remaining disagreements and objections and your analyses, but to help to have a front, these connections at political and social level, in order to do these things. They will drink water in your name and in our name thousands of workers. From there on, for 'BIOME' I have not said that it has any problems in relation to its own operation, I said that there are problems at the moment through the existing legal framework and status and that we should also take initiatives to bring about a change in the Banking Code itself. There are, of course, issues that go beyond the question of collective agreements, what you said about rotating work, about the rental companies and are within our intentions of the next bills to deal with all these issues. Here we are and we will all be judged for our intentions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u104	However, as far as the ban is concerned, it goes on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u105	Mr Katsotis, it's not over. You can discuss them with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u106	In this respect, let us be clear: The orders received by the Labour Inspectorate are to see whether they are made, as you said, "with the gun to the head", because this is illegal even under the current regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u107	They forbid the Federation and the trade union to go to the operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u108	If this is established, there will be such penalties. And you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the last for today's topical question. It is the sixth under number 27/10-3-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the revenues of HIDED and the impairment of the Greek Public Debt. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we've been very close to each other. My question is clear. Stronger than the figures we have all read, especially in the latest reports from the City's Private Property Fund, it appears that in the last four years its revenues have been close to EUR 3 billion. On the basis of the statutes, this revenue goes directly to the service of the public debt, namely the direct impairment of the nominal value of the public debt and part of it - 0.17% - goes to capital, as extra revenues, to the Demilitarisation Fund. The question is simple and clear: have these 3 billion revenues in the last three years been reduced to the nominal value of public debt? And the second question is equally important: 0.17%, which is an amount of about 3,200,000, has entered the TIADE Fund, as does the TIADED and its Board of Directors have to act? To complement here that in an informal debate I had with Mr Varoufakis yesterday, the Minister for Finance, told me that if anything that I imply, it would be one of the largest negotiating weapons of Greek democracy in this negotiation, because the creditors themselves, while they have pressed for demobilisations, at the same time while they are participating, as we well know, with two members of the Board of Directors of TIAD, they have acted against his statute and have not been reduced the Greek debt. It is a oxymospheric shape in the whole process of 'evaluation'-saleing, I would say - of the Greek property. So we expect you to have an answer from the General Accounting Office, see what we'll do from now on. Also, there are a lot of expenses. In the management reports, the annual reports, we see that we have too many advisors' expenses at the TEAD, which touch on me the limits of legality. I would like to see the Board of Directors changed in the next phase because at the moment, we might also have a management check. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I answer the second question as to whether this 0.17% is given. That's what's given. As far as the debt is concerned, it was a question of my own, if you like, when I was a university, because I saw that in the last two years the debt was falling by 1 billion, while it had to be reduced by 3 billion, while it was at 2 billion. The answers we have from the services - and it is something I want to investigate personally - are that by 2011 this money was entered into a privatization account as well as 2012 and then entered another account. These two accounts may confuse any analyst who cannot see where all the money went. From my first survey, all the money, possibly a few million - but this is important - seems to have gone to debt repayment. However, it remains the question again of seeing in detail whether there has been some small amount left, which has not gone or which can be a negotiating tool. What, of course, I wanted to emphasise in this whole case is the following. Perhaps I can get away from your question because I have some time to use: the "fillets" of the Greek economy were sold. And these ones have given three billion. In Zappeion 1, in a statement by the Prime Minister at that time, he said that this whole story - and I remember it, of course, but I found it in writing now and now - exploitation of part of the real estate and bold promotion of the integratedpreparation programmes - would lead to revenues of 50 billion. The fact that we have come to give all the "fillets" of the Greek economy and that we have 3,4.5 billion - and if we can collect - while we have waited for 50 billion or even 25 billion a little later, that is what you understand that it raises a lot of questions related to the depreciation of public property. And he was sold very slowly and detested. I don't know if it happened for reasons of feasibility or it was a random event. I don't care about that. I'm interested in the result. Of course, I would remind you that Nobelised economist Joseph Stiglic said such privatizations, playing under the terms. And what's bribery in Stiglic? It is the fact that some have personal gains when they "saving" - this is the expression it uses - the values of public assets. ‘Shaving’ means reducing the value. We've seen this. According to Stiglic, it seems to be bribery. There is, of course, a thorough investigation to prove this position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kammenos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u114	Minister, thank you very much for your reply. I would like - and I insist on my question, because I like the detail - to see these two accounts if they have done away with the debt or have served debt. They're two different terms, we know them very well. If they have served, it means that this money has been used for new bonds, which have exchanged some that have expired. That's a purpose. But if they did not lose the nominal value of debt, it is something else and it is equally important to see exactly how and how they were used. As far as immigration is concerned, you are absolutely right. This is where crimes have happened. Seeing some elements in the Transparency, for example the Ministry here - which we rent with guaranteed rental of EUR 792 000 for twenty years, which belonged to the National and became well and begging back, that is, someone took it for free with a guarantee of eight hundred thousand a year for twenty years and came to property through "PANGAIA", in which the President was the Honourable Mr Protopas of PASOK and the shareholder of 'INVEL', which is after him half the text - we see that the whole project was permanently dependent on Europeans' capital, being permanently captive, in order to denounce Greek property and to be bought in one inch of the real value. There was never a reason to sell state property at 322 billion in the fund to win what? Make the 322 billion 321 billion? Practically, the public doesn't win anything. But the buyer of this FDI wins, and I put it in capital letters. From now on, we should be very careful about what we are doing and what we are doing in the new operation of the Private Service of the Greek State, because, if Greece is left with values, i.e. assets, which will bring value at any time in the euro, then we will be practically and truly captive of any creditor. Within these values, we should not forget the terms'securitization', as our friends say, but also the securitisation introduced by the bill in FEK 240 of 2012, where he said that future revenues could be securitised. That is, the hydrocarbons and anything else to be securitised. That's all gone in. I do not know, and it is your responsibility to the government now, to see whether some of them have been executed or have promised some securitisations, because at some point 'we will stay without silver'. And this country, this state, if it is left without silver, will be permanently captive, which I do not think any Greek citizen wants, because many do not know about the technical, technological expansion that may take these issues, but it is very dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u116	I don't have to answer, as it wasn't a question, it was just a position. The question of the investigation put by Mr Kammenos can continue not only for the last three years, but also for the previous ones, so that we can have a clear picture, even for a few millions if they did not go to reduce the Greek debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling is closed. I would also like to inform you that three more questions have been scheduled that will not be discussed. The second question under number 16/10-3-2015 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Spyridonos - Adoni Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health and Social Security, concerning the announcements of medical treatment and hospitalization to uninsured persons already in place with the establishment of the PEDY, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, and deleted. The fifth question under number 37/10-3-2015 is the first-round question of Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larissis of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health and Social Security, regarding the direct staffing of the paediatric clinics of Trikala and Karditsas Hospitals, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Andreas Xanthi and deleted. The fourth under number 14/10-3-2015 topical question of the second question of the Serres of the River, Alexandros Hadjimitriou, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy and the Finance, on the "Greek Sugar Industry", will not be discussed and deleted. There was a debate about who will answer. In the end, there could not be any consultation. So Mr. Hadjimitri will come back. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We interrupt our meeting for five minutes and continue with the special agenda of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u118	Repeated adjournment. We'll start with a pleasant announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two teachers - attending them from the 1st High School of Edessa. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION REQUESTS FOR APPROVAL OF BULGARIA Debates and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Panagiotis Kammenos, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos and Christos Kelles. Under Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary or political activity of the Member or to prosecution, prosecution or harassment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hand or by reopening the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member concerned by the request and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. Their alternates, I remind you, are the Parliamentary Representatives. The provisions of Articles 71 and 72 shall apply accordingly. The House shall decide by secret ballot if this is requested by the President of the Parliament or by the President of the Parliamentary Group to which the Member is a party whose immunity is sought. I would also remind you - and we have said this on the occasion of the first such procedure - that by a decision taken by the Conference of Presidents on 23 March 2005, it has been accepted on applications for waiver of immunity, the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote, which is not provided - neither the roll-call vote nor the roll-call vote - but has been accepted and we have applied it last time, we will now, unless we object, because we may also have objections. The vote in which each fellow Member lists his name, his constituency and his parliamentary group will be registered in the respective Minutes. So we also respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. I would remind you that a daily order was issued on Friday for the first two applications for waivers of immunity and on Tuesday, the day before yesterday, a supplementary agenda was issued, after the next meeting of the Commission under the third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Charalabidou, chaired by the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics and the third request for waiver of immunity was added, which concerns Mr Kelles. The first case concerns Mr Panagiotis Kammenos. Mr Kammenos has sent a detailed memorandum of twenty-one page in the mind of Members. It'll be distributed. It's already reproduced by the services and will be distributed to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u120	The second case concerns Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, and the third case concerns Mr Christos Kelles. Is the request made by Mr Panos Kammenos, pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, by a colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u121	Could the memorandum be distributed first, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u122	Do you want the memorandum to be distributed first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u123	If there's any possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u124	All right, Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u125	We just don't know the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u126	I hear you asked to lead the roll-call vote because you're in a hurry, but if you want to wait, we're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u127	She was kind of Mrs. Vice President because I came first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u128	All right, it was from the courtesy of Mrs. Vice President. If you're not in a hurry, you can be distributed. It's going to be distributed anyway, but if you're not in a hurry to do it then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u129	The rest of you are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u130	As the Vice-President is aware, the memorandum has been forwarded to all the members of the committee who unanimously decided to propose the waiver of immunity, but it is right that it should also be distributed to the Members who vote. That is why I asked for it to be reproduced and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u131	Madam President, what has the committee said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u132	I'll let you know. Is the request made by Mr Nicholas Karathanasopoulos by a colleague requesting the floor under Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u133	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u134	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for five minutes, with the known tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u135	They won't need it. What am I supposed to do with it? The main thing is that I did not do anything about this House now. All I have done is what is the main, to stand up to the racing claims of the workers and the people's movement. My act was in the context of these activities, which I believe should characterise the action and political activity of each Member and much more of the member of the JRC. I would point out to the House that if necessary, I will do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u136	So you plead unrepentant. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u137	What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u138	It is important for the criminalisation of mobilisation, however, that Parliament take initiatives that are effective to stop this phenomenon. Isn't that right? The third application concerns Mr Christo Kella. Is there a colleague requesting the floor, pursuant to Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u139	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Kelles, you have the floor for five minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. The case we are discussing today, regarding my waiver of immunity, concerns 2010 when I was a vice mayor. Most of the colleagues who have not gone through local government will not understand it. What I will say is that it is a breach of duty for a health store in Larissa, but the case has been dealt with and I have been acquitted. I've submitted the court's decision to the committee. The court was held in Larissa on 27 October 2014. Evidently, ten of the fourteen lawsuits the police have been convicted. I don't want to say anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Is there another colleague requesting the floor, pursuant to Rule 108 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure? Oh, no. We shall therefore proceed to the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u143	For Mr. Kammenos, what is the recommendation, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u144	I said it before, Mr. Economou. You're not watching, because you're talking to each other. If you're watching the Bureau, you won't have any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u145	We missed something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u146	In the committee's report, which has been distributed to you - and I would like to say that in this period we are disseminating the minutes of the committee, so that it is clear what has been discussed - for Panos Kammenos the committee's proposal is 'no' unanimously. For Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, the committee's proposal is 'no' by a majority. And for Mr Christo Kella the committee's proposal is 'yes' by a majority. These are the proposals of the committee. You are not bound by the Committee's proposals. Take them into consideration. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the name of the colleague for whom the waiver of immunity is sought. I will beg the services next time, because it is important that the procedure is not on a ballot, all because someone might want to be in a different position. Any colleague who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity will write next to the Member whose name is called upon to waive the word 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. Any colleague who votes against the waiver of immunity will write next to the Member whose name is called upon to waive the immunity of the word 'OH'. Any colleague who refuses to vote will write next to the Member whose name is called upon to waive the immunity of the word 'PARON'. Each of his colleagues in the ballot will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, and he will sign it, because the vote is roll-call, according to the Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. And since no objections have been raised, that will be the case. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues, Mrs. and Mr. Secretarys of Parliament, Mrs. Panayota Dritsel from SYRIZA and Mr.Giannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, who will sign up and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the voting protocol in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree with this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u147	The House unanimously agreed. Ms. Hara Kafantaris from SYRIZA and Mr. Christos Boukokos from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u148	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that: 1. As of 19 March 2015, under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Special Permanent Committee on Institutions and Transparency was established for the PF's Parliamentary Period. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. With the decision of the President of the Parliament of 19 March 2015, under Rule 43A of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, for the First Session of the Parliamentary Period, the Special Standing Committee on Equality, Youth and Human Rights was formed. The relevant decisions have been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three announcements to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and two teachers from the 5th Old Faliro High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and four teachers from the 1st High School of the beautiful and aesthetic Argos of Mount Kastoria. The House welcomes them. MEP Mr Hussein Zebeck sent a letter to the President of Parliament, Zoe Konstantopoulou, a short-day foreign leave from 23-3-2015 to 24-3-2015 for serious personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u151	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 206 Members voted. On the case of Mr Panagiotis Kammenos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 16 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at 'PARON' were voted 16 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the case of Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 15 Members voted. Immunity, i.e. 'OH', voted 189 MPs. 'PARON' 2 Members voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. On the case of Mr Christos Kelles: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 147 Members voted. They voted against the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'OH', 49 MPs. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor was therefore accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-03-19-S1-commons.u154	With the consent of the House at 13.55 minutes the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday, 20 March 2015, at 10 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
