ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Panayota Dritselli, to read out the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u2	MEP Magnesia Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou filed a petition to the Minister of Health on a request for physico-therapists to restore regularity in payments by EEAY. MEP Magnesia Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou filed a report to the Minister of Health on problems of the Skopelos Health Centre and of the Regional Medical Alonissos. Congressman Kastorias Evangelos Diamantopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on the question of financial support for sport Run Greece Kastoria 2015. Parliamentarians Rhodope Mustafa Mustafa and Kara Yusuf Ayhan have reported to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on problems at the Border Point of Passport Control Rhodope. MP Magnesia Mr Alexandros Mikopoulou filed a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the issue of the authorisation of coastline farms. MEP Lassithi Mr.Ioannis Placiotakis submitted a report to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the evaluation of programmes of the Organizations of Oil and Work Organisations of Crete. MEP Nikitas Kaklamanis filed a report to the Minister of Health on a payment stop at the Hellenic Centre for Psych health and Research. MEP Maria Antonios submitted a report to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the payment of contractual officials of civil law-enforcement, Solidarity, Education and Sport of the Municipality of Kastoria, due to the delay in publishing the recruitment in the Official Journal of the Government. The MPs, Mr. Sakis Vardalis and Mr. Eleni Gerasimou, referred to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the letter of the Association of Educational Primary Education of Halkidiki "ARISTOLIS", which calls for the operation of student camps and for the necessary funds to be made available. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of National Defence, on the protest against the unfairness of the pension cut that he has suffered due to his refusal to receive a number of AMKAs for reasons of religious conscience. MEP Vassilis Kegeroglou submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Mr Panagiotis Lafazani, on the change of legislative framework to compensate for disasters in herbal capital. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the request for justice to be restored to the various manipulations regarding the recent suicide of unfortunate Vangelis Gikoumakis. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, by letter from Mr Bescu Georgios, as promoted on requests concerning proposed regulations on sectoral labour issues for lawyers to join the humanitarian crisis bill. MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Finance of the Professional Scientific Association for Engineering of Engineering on the request for the parties to formally call on all members who have been former and current Ministers, General Secretarys of Ministries, MPs, Presidents, etc. to repatriate all their funds in order to give the necessary and valuable liquidity to the country's credit system. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction about positions and proposals for the re-establishment of the Municipal Police. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Finance about his protest against an indebted man's handling of the government that would accompany the vote on a hundred instalments in the process of repayment of debts to the public. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction of a citizen’s letter of objections and proposals on the draft law: "Democratisation of the administration - Combating Graphicism and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices". Congressman Papanatsiou Catherine has submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on strengthening the human potential of the subordinated Skiathos Forestry. Congressman Zesis Xanna filed a report to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the construction of the Thessaloniki Repair Base. Congressman Christos Dimas reported to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction the letter from the local community of Sulio on the problem of increasing crime. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Christos Katsotis, Liana Kanellis and George Lambroulis filed a petition to the Minister of Health with the text of the employees of the Hellenic Centre for Psychological Health and Research, which calls for a number of requests to be met. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of National Defence on the protest against wage reductions in the Long Theatre Volunteers. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs on requests from the Professional Scientific Association of Engineering Technology. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of National Defence, on the question of a request for a memorial of fallen in favour of the country in the settlement of the Kalavryta. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Health about the coercion of doctors, in order to join the EMS, by closing their medical professions. Congressman Vassilis Kegeroglou submitted a report to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion and the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the subject of respect for the requirements of the Constitution - appointing the successors of the AACC. MEP Vassilis Kegeroglou filed a petition to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, the letter from the Federation of Agricultural Associations of Carditsa claiming tax exemptions. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religion the letter of the Professional Scientific Association for Engineering of Engineering, requesting an immediate meeting with the Minister of Education. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a report to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. The statement relates to an article on the occasion of an interview by Mr. Rally Georgios. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of National Defence on requests from the three-tier powers of the Ministry of National Defence. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a report to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on a proposal to restore municipal police officers. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos filed a petition to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of State on a request from a member of the City Council of Alexandroupolis to investigate the legality of funds granted as donation. Congressman Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos submitted a report to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and to the Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism on the need for temporary authorisation for the operation of outdoor car parks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Reports completed. Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I would like to inform you that Mr Maria Antonio is requested permission to attend the opening of the SITEV tourist exhibition in Algiers, Algeria, from 13 to 17 May. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u4	The House approved the requested permission. Furthermore, Mr Fotios Grassikos, Member of the Golden Dawn, requests permission to be absent from abroad from 12 to 14 May for a party obligation and invokes Rule 76(3) and (4) of the Rules of Procedure. The Members of the Golden Dawn, Mr. George Galeos, also ask for the same. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u5	The House approved the requested permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed under No 151/28-4-2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Larisa, of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the outstandingities of the repealed Labour Housing Organisation (OEC). The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr Panagiotis Skourletis. Please, Mr Barriotta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. I'll have to be brief. Good morning, Minister. As you know, the Labour House Agency and the Labour Housing Agency have already been abolished since 2013. Services and employees are incorporated into the OAED without any provision of a special service or a separate office or any separate service serving the business of the residential agency. Thessaly does not even exist at regional level. The result is that a number of loose ends left behind by the Labour Housing Agency are running out. In particular, the most important of these is perhaps the issue of definitive concessions for the approximately fifteen thousand dwellings granted by the Labour Residence Agency for the past twenty-five to thirty years without having issued definitive concessions. This procedure concerns fifty nine settlements. About one-third of the dwellings have not even been costed. In the remaining 2/3, that is about nine thousand houses, no definitive concessions have been issued and, where attempted, they are stuck in various procedural and legal problems. The result is that these families, i.e. the beneficiaries of the Labour Housing Agency, cannot manage the property, cannot inherit it, cannot transfer it. Nor can they, even if they wish, pay or continue to pay the remaining instalments, with the result of the public, i.e. the Labour Residence Agency, lose money, but also the beneficiaries cannot manage the property they own. An example of such a problem that cannot be solved is Melina Mercury II in Larissa, where it has now been costed on the initiative of some of the old workers. The problem is that it had been costed in '98 with a price of 390 euros. The price of the new tariff has been uploaded to EUR 470 by the 2005 Act. However, there is no one to resolve the differences and objections that exist very reasonably from the beneficiaries of the agency. This issue has been tabled as a question. So the problems are the abolition of the OEC, the Occupational Housing Agency, without at the same time having a special service provided for the OAED, and there are a number of problems that cannot be solved. The ruling party in the opposition was committed to re-establishing the Labour Residence Organization. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Folios, was committed to the programme statements. The question therefore is whether there is a timetable for the establishment of the Labour Housing Organization and whether there is any planning or any desire for an interim solution, if any, should the government finally make progress in its commitments for the time being to come for the many loose ends that exist at the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. For three minutes now, the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis has spoken. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u9	Mr Barriott, with your timely question, you remind us of the consequences of another choice of the Memorandum Governments that have dissolved the Labour Housing Agency and the Labour Housing Agency. All of what you refer to in your question is just like that, and I would add, beyond this particular example from your region, and dozens of other similar examples, which have essentially transformed the beneficiaries into hostages. We, from the first day we entered into and, on the basis of our programme statements and commitments, are already moving in one direction to resolve the issue of concessions. However, this presupposes that there should be a reassessment of costs, because too many things have changed. There is a rapid impairment of values. So we cannot charge the beneficiaries with prices that no longer exist. In view of the poor financial situation of most of the beneficiaries, we should now go to more favourable arrangements for them. At the moment we are waiting - and this has begun since Mrs Karamesini took office - to have a comprehensive proposal very soon. Here I would also like to point out something else, which creates us an additional obstacle and concerns the work that needs to be done at the same time in the context of the register. In order to have the concessions, these should have been recorded in the register. The register operates at its own pace. We could say too much about the case of the Land register. I imagine you know them well, too. But we have to move in that direction. Apart from resolving these specific issues, we are moving to restore a separate structure for these issues. At the moment I am unable to tell you whether this structure will eventually take the form of a separate organism, as the OEK was before. It is important, however, to collect all the world that it has scattered under the mobility programme, because the transfer of OSCE officials has become inappropriate. Essentially people have put engineers, who have had a huge experience of these issues, in publishing, to say, unemployment cards, regardless of their subject matter. I understand that it is very difficult in these few months that we are in things to make use of all this human potential, but that is what we intend to do. I think that very soon, beyond the very specific things that I told you about the issue of concessions, arrangements and reassessment of costs, we will now re-establish a separate structure that meets the specific needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mr. Barriots has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. We therefore agree on an assessment of the situation. I just want to point out - because you said a lot of things - that there are unfinished loans. Of the approximately two hundred thousand borrowers from the organisation's own funds at the moment, only 15% is paying. In other words, either it has a weakness or the OEC is unable to collect it. That is, the doses have been stopped, and so forth. It's a huge sum and it's a huge loose end. There are the settlements, which have stadiums, rooms, premises belonging to the Labour Residence Organization. Characteristics for about seven hundred sixty-five of the thousands of so many buildings that are allocated to the settlements by the OEC to third parties have ended contracts, are destroyed, destroyed and are not exploited. As you said, the register is a very big problem. There is an estimate that about sixty thousand objections, rights and handling of separate cases will take place in the rest of the three years if the Register proceeds at the pace it is going on. If it is speeded up, the problem will be even greater. So I just wanted to point out in my denunciation that I am glad to hear that there is a mood for the re-recommendation. Perhaps it would be appropriate - because I understand and agree with you that it is a great and difficult task to reconstitute a function which has been dissolved in the way it has been dissolved - even at regional level, the engineers who, as you say, are currently working or even worse, are not employed in the services of the OAED, to gather, even at regional level, into offices that have outside the label 'User residence organisation' or 'Service' or anything else. At least the concentration of the many problems and the many loose ends, the concentration and archiving - if you like - could help and be a useful advance in the future re-establishment of the organisation. In particular, I would like to highlight this need, which may help to a second extent to reconstitute the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, I think we're moving on the same wavelength. And perhaps, until we are able to present this integrated, separate structure, we can see such a step by taking advantage of the people who have an experience, as you have proposed. That is, at the same time, as we form the new structure, the affairs of the people and the beneficiaries must also proceed. Because we will not expect a whole body to be re-established to go ahead with this. However, I would like to make a point of reflection and address it to both you and your party and to Parliament as a whole: all this has been done in the name and under the pressure of the Memorandum cheques to bring the public together to be less wasteful. Nevertheless, and here it is confirmed that this policy was deeply antisocial and destructive. In the most sensitive area, the housing policy of the weakest, came the Memorandum, this greasy, limited social concept in Greece to dismantle it. Another confirmation, then, of what has happened to the country in the past five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u14	Good. Thank you. We move on to the next topical question, the first with number 154/28-4-2015, a topical question by MP Kastoria of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Diamantopoulou, also to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the determination of the number of citizens entering third countries for the provision of dependent and seasonal employment in the region of Kastoria. And in this timely question, the Minister will answer Mr Skourletis. Here, Mr. Diamantopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, for the first time this year the admission number of third country citizens for captive and seasonal employment is determined upon a regional proposal to the relevant Ministry, after a meeting of employers and rural associations with local regional units. The result of this meeting on Kastoria was to send a document to the Ministry with the required needs for post-harvest workers from the Region of Western Macedonia. The Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity issued a CSR, setting out the maximum number of residence permits for seasonal work on a local basis. According to it, the number for the Regional Unit of Kastoria was set at a hundred forty - six workers in total and an increase of fifteen workers for emergencies. However, the needs of the Regional Unit of Kastoria and the primary sector are much higher than the approved whole of the issued CSR. Needs which are reflected in the recommendation sent to the Ministry by the Region of Western Macedonia and which are multiplier than the final approved number. The suggestion of the Regional Unit of Kastoria seems not to have been taken into account by the relevant Ministry, perhaps because of the urgent adoption of the above-mentioned KHS and of the transitional period, following the elections and the change of political leadership. Since the primary sector is an important pillar of the local economy of Kastoria, because labour requirements in this sector are not covered by domestic workers, so as to create a shortage in workers' hands and problems in carrying out the necessary tasks, because it is a constant request for rural cooperatives in the region to increase the licenses for posted workers in order to work legally in our country, I would ask you if the Ministry intends to change the issued CYS in order to increase the number of posted workers' permits for seasonal work, and to take into account the West Macedonian region's suggestion in the CYS on dependent labour to meet the needs of the primary sector of the local economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Diamantopoulou, you are well described, but you lack the introduction to the problem in the following sense: your region has been delayed and on its own responsibility a proposal has not been sent. Consequently, the Ministry of Labour along with the Ministry of Interior, which is responsible for issuing the relevant CSR for the seasonal workers, formed a number which was equivalent to last year. Since this year, as you have said, there have been proposals from the regional and local OAEDs and from the ESC. All this, therefore, has delayed tabling a specific proposal. So I would say that you, too, as a local MP, will do well to force them so that they are ready on time. This is the role of the local parliamentarians. From there on, indeed the number of a hundred forty - six can understand that it is a number that falls short of the needs of the Regional Unit of Kastoria. We have already taken into account the real needs. And I would like to say that we have received a proposal from the Regional Unit of Castoria, which is judged, compared with other regions, as a number perfectly high. There is a request for authorisation to be granted to 12 000 workers. This, when compared to other areas that have much more increased needs, is too much. So there is also a question of better preparation in the formulation of proposals. We believe, however, that it would be reasonable for a joint ministerial decision to be taken with the respective Ministry, moving to the number of four thousand five hundred workers employed for land workers and another five hundred for livestock workers. From there on, there is always the possibility of an increase of 10%, if it is decided by things now that the real needs are not met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Mr Diamantopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you understand, any body or agency we ask or when it comes to contact with the local parliamentarian will probably recognise responsibility for any delay. I recognise and accept what you are saying, which also results from the confirmation of the procedure, which is corrected by the number you have said. Of course, I, too, am abstaining from that number that you confirmed to me for twelve thousand. In the field of plant and animal production by the Argos Agricultural Association - Orchard I have the number of eight hundred, that is seven hundred fifty in plant and fifty in animal, of the Kastoria Cooperative, six hundred thirty in animal and six hundred thirty in plant and of the Farm Society of Fruit and Vegetables, four thousand. Nevertheless, I believe that the number you have given to the part of animal production covers the requests of local bodies, but also the four and a half thousand in plant production is a sufficient number, which shows that the Ministry is now aware of the needs more generally of the primary sector and of the Regional Unit of Kastoria. Another point I would like to raise, Minister, which must be taken seriously into account and resolved - I am at your disposal and after your suggestion, if further action needs to be taken - is the issue of second-hand land labourers and the payment of an amount corresponding to the highest level of insurance of the OGA, about EUR 1,200, so that they can get permission and enter this area. As you can see, it is an amount covered by their cuts or the producer who invites the worker to pay them. I do not see the logic of paying the highest price, rather than the lowest price. I think it is a measure that will contribute to the funds, and it will also prevent any farmer or farmer from resorting to procedures that he would not like, in order to produce, illegal labour. It's something very important, we have to see it. All rural clubs and livestock and rural cooperatives in the county have put it. Thank you very much for your understanding and your solution to this great problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u21	I would just like to make one point, since I see that the solution finally launched by the Ministry meets the needs. On the subject of the OGA: I consider your observation reasonable and we will come to an agreement, to see what we can do as soon as possible. Of course, to speak in real terms, the question is that for land workers - not for those who come in the way that we are now discussing, but for those who already exist and work and who are many more in agricultural and livestock farming - most of them are not allowed to be insured. Under the pretext of lack of legal papers, residence permits, they are not registered in the IKA, employers on their part cannot justify such costs, so they are no longer tax-free. That is why, on the occasion of your timely question - although it is not included - we are currently trying to formulate a proposal with the appropriate Deputy Minister, Mr Christodoulopoulos, who deals with immigration policy, so that anyone who has proven himself can also be insured and benefited from the funds of the country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. We continue with the third Question No 157/28-4-2015 topical question by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the payment of employees of the "EUROMEDICA AROGY" group in the region of Thessaly. Mr. Skourletis will answer. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. For eight months now, workers in the EUROMEDICA group have remained unpaid. We note that unpaid work has been a permanent tactic of the group in Greece, as other private health businessmen have done in recent years, a sector that has flourished during a period of economic crisis and is one of the most profitable with millions of euros investment, after the depreciation of the public health system. It is right, therefore, to react to this unfavourable development, like the mobilisations that are under way, claiming the elementary, namely the payment of their successors. And here it is worth mentioning that at the same time as the group "EUROMEDICA" leaves the workers unpaid, it has joined as a member of the Association of Tourism Enterprises since December 2014, signalling the group's activity in medical tourism, in a sector with high growth prospects in a time of crisis, investing millions of euros at the same time. The questions to the Minister, Mr President, are: What measures will the Ministry and the Government take to bring workers directly into employment - eight months - but what will be the Ministry's intervention or action to sign the sectoral labour contract and apply, of course, not only to the group concerned, but also to all private clinics? Because the conventions currently governing employment relations in this area - and not just, but, since we are talking about this area of private health - are individual conventions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u25	Mr Lambroulis, we are well aware of this case, but also of another similar case in your town, namely, that you have not paid for months. And we haven't sat down with your hands crossed. Already the Labour Inspectorate on 27-1-2015 went to this company, identified the problem and imposed specific fines. He didn't just stand there. On 9-4-2015, it went for re-checking and, as the issue continues, there have been the moves provided for by the law and sues have been filed and there is, of course, the procedure for imposing additional administrative sanctions. The first inspection took place two days after we took over. I repeat that the APRC with the small possibilities it has objectively, but nowadays in a different way of operation, has gone to this operation for re-checking. It was one direction to have organised and targeted checks on specific private clinical health, because there has been a large number of such cases and problems. From there on, you ask me about the subject of the branch contract. You think we don't want there to be? On the contrary! But you know very well that this is of course about the workers themselves. We politically support the need to sign new sectoral contracts and not just this because you know very well that the Ministry of Labour has already submitted a specific bill. In particular, I would like to say that the Committee's opinion on the bill in its hands immediately after Easter was sent to you. I myself will visit ILO at the end of the next week, while at the same time following all the procedures provided for, so that we very soon have a new institutional framework which enables workers to negotiate on equal terms in a free landscape with employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Look, in the face of the legitimate demand of workers for the payment of their employees, the employer - because we have to mention this - has attempted this as well - and has certainly attempted in this direction in the last few days, because the moves have started since 20 April and are continuing these days - and he has managed to set up a strike mechanism, using extortion and threats to prevent the movement, but - as the branch also denounces and I will testify for the Minutes and the document in question - he is continuing to recruit young workers at the same time and he promises that he will not leave them unpaid for more than two months. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second thing that the employer is doing, in other words, the strike mechanism which he is setting up to blackmail the strikers - as he also denounces the union - is that he is using all kinds of blackmail and threats to terrorize the workers, even getting to the point of bringing the police to stop them, etc., as well as the time when the movement is taking place - and it is already, that is, in fact, going on - videotapes and photographs of the strikers, with everything that will mean - and we all understand that - for the future and the consequences for workers from the company itself, when the mobilisations end. That is what we are saying in public, so that the corresponding care can be taken. Workers, who are now facing survival, say that they are not terrorized by the terrible blackmails and mechanisms and that their struggle for survival and dignity is stronger than the 'EUROMEDICA' regularity, which, while investing millions, as I have said in prototype, does not pay the workers. Of course, this situation is not lightning in hunger. It is a constant tactic of the employer in many businesses, not only in the private health sector and not only in the area of Larissa or Thessaly, but throughout Greece. And the dismantling of this employer is not at all accidental, since it is stepping on a specific anti-gauge that has been introduced in recent years and is being implemented. This is aimed at reducing the value of the labour force in order to achieve the objective of strengthening the profitability of capital in the context of the competitiveness of the economy, which will be further intensified in the next few years, taking into account the joint statement by the Prime Minister and Juncker yesterday to take the necessary anti-grassroots measures in order to complete the evaluation of the memorandum programme. And because you said about the bill that's coming, let's see it first and see you later. It seems, therefore, that the Government, after the transfer of the minimum wage, also accepts the objections of the lenders to the labour market in order to support the profitability of business groups. As is also obvious, there is no mention of the abolition of the anti-virtual, memorial framework. [[At this point the closing bell of the speaking time of the Z Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Mr President, just a minute. And in order to "gold the pill" a reference is made. The reference to collective bargaining in the joint declaration, which refers to a modern and effective system, but which in all the countries of the European Union is at the expense of workers and with incentives for monopolies. That is why, now, the workers - we as a Communist Party - must not show any tolerance, circumvent their illusions and organize their struggle, their struggle, their claims, their claims, against anti-Fraud policies, and promote the fulfilment of modern needs in wages, collective agreements, insurance rights, etc., but also against the management policies and the political managers of this rotten exploitation system, which leads them to impoverishment and poverty, and by creating and putting in place the terms and conditions for the overthrowing of the own exploitation system. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u29	Much of what you have said, the very specific issue of extortion, threats, videotapes, against workers is illegal, even with this poor, dismantled institutional framework that exists. At least we are clear, willing and willing to move in a way of full support for the workers who are actually blackmailed and compressed unbearablely. During these three months, on behalf of our Ministry, a titanic attempt has been made to convene three-way committees dealing with these issues. Already many of the private clinics are invoking problems with the EEAS and thus explaining their own delays. Of course, if anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u30	This one doesn't have, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u31	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Bright, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u33	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u34	It's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u35	Bad is nothing, it's bad that we can't figure out what's going on in Greece today and I'll come to that right after that. Of course, in many of these cases it is pretext to invoke non-payment from the EEAS, because these companies themselves do not submit, for example, the required documents, they do not satisfy their insurance contributions, they are not insurers, so their operation is blocked in total. Now from there, because you have also referred to the Prime Minister's statement yesterday, I very much fear that before you call on the world to show no tolerance, you must understand what is happening, because today in Europe, after many years, there is an honest fight, under adverse circumstances, in favour of the interests of the world of work. So understand exactly what is going on and take a position. Stop sitting as weak observers to describe the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u36	We're not an observer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Lambroulis, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u38	Assemble your strengths in this collective struggle to restore collective bargaining in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u39	Inside the people we are to organize the struggle of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Lambroulis, you don't have the floor. You're a Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u41	Anyway, you know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u42	We understand very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u43	You don't understand. When we talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u44	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u45	Watch out. Listen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u46	We realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u47	You don't understand that, no. The only thing that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u48	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u49	Now your perception of ours is a long way away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Lambroulis, it is important that you do not interfere with the things you do not agree with. It's not compulsory to hear just...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u51	On this particular issue I have asked the timely question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u52	Wait a minute. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u53	When we are talking about European standards, then, we are talking about the core of the European acquis, as this has been shaped by the struggles of decades that have taken place between workers and the trade union movement. It is all that has been dismantled in recent years of hegemony of neoliberalism. In all of this, you adopt a perception of an observer. All you do is describe the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u54	You're out of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u55	So look and take part in the classic social conflict that is taking place. Otherwise, everything else is uphill and they don't offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u56	You don't want to see reality for the benefit of the people. You've made a lot of arrangements...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Lambroulis, you don't have the floor. It is important not to interfere and not to be disturbed, even when we hear things that we do not agree. When we hear things we agree on, we all know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u58	Tell us about last night's deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Synatiakis, you don't have the floor. You're typical and careful, you're not riots. Let me tell you that the first question under number 153/28-4-2015 of the First Circuit Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siloropoulou to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, regarding the crisis in the book area, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The second question under number 162/28-4-2015 is the first question of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the payment of 1.5% of the gross revenues of television stations for the production of films will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, and deleted. Also, the fifth question under No 149/27-4-2015 of the First Cycle of the MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the attitude of the lawyer of the Greek State in discussing the appeal to the Council of State on 24-3-2015 of the non-profit association "Greek Taxees", which called for the compromise agreement between the Greek State and SIEMENS to be deemed to be unconstitutional and unlawful. We continue with the fourth under No 156/28-4-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on problems in the functioning of the Psychiatric Clinic of PAGNE. He's present, the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. I think it is commonly accepted that the needs for the provision of mental health services have increased and even to a very scary extent, as a result of the deep, protracted capitalist crisis, with all the consequences it has for the mental world and mental health. In fact, there is a recorded increase in incidents of at least 50% to public structures. The situation is at zero, not to say it is much below zero. The Psychiatric Clinic of the "University General Hospital of Heraklion" meets the needs of hospitality throughout Eastern Crete, not to mention the Dodecanese, with an average for importing patients over a thousand people per year. It has a force of thirty-four beds, monitors patients on an external basis, has a mobile mental health service unit in most of the prefecture. It has a ten-bed Meno-Social hostel and of course is responsible for all psychiatric incidents inside the hospital. At the same time, the needs for staff of all specialists, especially doctors, are increased. Especially in this area, the situation is explosive, since there is a huge problem with qualified doctors. The jobs currently in existence are five, and according to the legislation in force it must be one qualified per four beds. In other words, it should be ten. At this stage, four trainees are working, one of whom works as an overnumber. What are the consequences: Firstly, the safe operation of the clinic is not ensured. The average patient per employee is nine to one. There is an inability to fulfil other tasks, such as interlinked psychiatric, external medical, mobile unit, medieval structures and much more. Secondly, it is not possible to carry out the intended exercise in other clinics, such as neurology and pathology, in the context of the completion of psychiatry's specificity, on the basis of Law 3918. Thirdly, the average on-calls per resident is ten on-calls per month, except for a certain limit, at a very high physical and mental cost, since in general on-call there is a large number of incidents as an emergency, but also by the large number of hospitals. Fourthly, there is obviously no time to participate in the necessary educational processes, namely to be able to attend seminars, literature, which undermines the education of the skilled. Of course, it should be noted that all this is happening at the same time as we have a body of other problems. In fact, I announce that at the moment in the Ministry of the Environment of Crete they are in racing mobilisation of doctors and nurses and of low funding, sub-financing, i.e., health care, and serious shortages in medical and nursing staff. So you must give us a very clear answer and not generally "you are right, but the burning earth..." etc. Oh, no. You have to tell us exactly what measures you will take to cover immediately these empty posts of qualified doctors and to increase their positions so that the needs for services of mental health are fully met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd Kalitheas General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] For three minutes the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, you are absolutely right in finding the impact of the economic and social crisis on mental health. These are completely substantiated literature. There are extensive scientific reports showing that people's mental health has been aggravated at this time. The mental resilience of people has been reduced, precisely because of poverty, unemployment, insecurity, everyday problems and demands for public mental health structures have been increased. It is also interesting that there are studies at this time that say that Greece is very low and within Europe. It is in the twenty-eighth place, in total, of thirty countries, in the indicators concerning accessibility of services, the supportive intervention of the social and wider environment, their ability to access education and work and, of course, the crucial issues of the rights and stigmatisation of mental disease. So the need has increased and the services are deficit and problematic. For the specific clinic, to which you refer, it is known that a very large weight of psychiatric care is indeed borne in Crete. In the two counties of Eastern Crete there is no other psychiatric clinic. The population of responsibility is about four hundred thousand. The sectionation and development of mental health services in Crete have not been done in an equal way. Mostly because of the history of the psychiatric hospital of Chania there is, say, a heterogeneous distribution of structures in the area of western Crete. So there is a very important deficit. Also, beds are few and are overloaded, as you said, there is overloading of incidents, psychosomatic stress of human resources and, of course, of the skilled, who are the weakest link in the functioning of the health system, which are really much weighted by the daily routine of incidents, especially in acute cases. Still, there are problems with the clinic infrastructure. In the Acids Division, building facilities are suffocating. There are very few of these five posts for the skilled. There is a study - we expect it to be recommended by the Ministry of Crete - which will make an effort to redistribute positions of specialists from specialties and clinics that have long been vacant and have not been covered with qualified doctors to increase the ability of the clinic to train doctors and to be able, in fact, to train them to be decent and worthy of a university clinic. I must, however, point out that, unfortunately, the major problem in this country is that there is a leak of scientific potential, particularly young doctors in Europe, which has left huge gaps from the point of view of specialists in public hospitals. Lists have been emptied in too many specialties, especially in the province, and the health system is at risk. If this course is not reversed and if we do not give a very clear signal to young doctors that the path of dismantling public care is reversed and that they can in our country's health system have a decent scientific and professional perspective, then we will really have very difficult problems to solve and we will have to face the reality of a vital shortage, which is the doctors who are trained, from the hospital record. The request to increase the positions of the qualified ones from five to eight seems reasonable. We will try, in cooperation with the Ministry of Crete and the Ministry in general, to make a redesign of specialisation posts throughout the country, because with the removal of qualified doctors in recent years, there have been clinics today who have one or no qualified doctors and yet have specialisations. We therefore need to see on what terms the clinical work will be done, in what ways training will be provided for qualified doctors and with what scientific staff the clinics will be able to train young doctors and provide qualifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u64	Minister, mental patients - we all know that - are a special and vulnerable group. The way this group is treated can be characterised as an entire society and a health system. Therefore, we are not talking here about measurables - let me speak - why redistribution, in essence, is like managing this staff you have. In other words, the redistribution of skills means. While you and Mr Kourublis on all the tones you said you were going to hire - you said you were going to do four and a half thousand recruits - now we are going to redistribution. Let's take one clinic, go to the other, etc. We are not in agreement with this concept, because that is precisely because it is embedded in budgetary logic, which you, too, are defending as a government. Especially after yesterday's developments, things are leading to a revision of the 2015 state budget to the worst, which means that we will have further cuts in both health and education and social structures. The need is to have an integrated support network at all levels, medical, social, professional, prosperous, supportive community of the patient and also of the family. This is all nonexistent. Imagine that the structures operating in the context of PANGNE's clinic are considered to be the best. And people there, nurses and doctors, do work soul and body. At the same time, there are no psychiatrists at the PEDY. We will not, of course, talk about psychologists or social workers, etc. The "Venizelio Hospital" has left a psychiatrist, while the same subordinated is Heraklion Psych health centre, which in theory has the greatest responsibility for the work in the community. In essence, however, his offer in this area is very small. Also, there are two nursing homes of chronic patients, one for each hospital, with ten beds each. Look out! At the same time as we are all discussing here, the Municipality of Heraklion, along with PANGNE, in the framework of the NRP, agreed with a non-governmental organisation to build a day center for patients with Alzheimer's. In fact, as a municipal advisor to Heraklion, I had experienced the fact that the Heraklion City Council supported a decision to establish a psychiatric clinic next to the University Hospital with a hundred and twenty beds. In other words, at the same time as PPAGNI's psychiatric clinic comes and says to you, "I don't have staff, I don't have the opportunity to function", they license, in the context of the JESSICA program, this financial instrument and the individual is funded to build the psychiatric clinic with a hundred and twenty beds. If that is not a policy within the framework of the liberalisation of services, staff and trade within the framework of the Maastricht Treaty, which you are defending, then what is it? That is why you are having the debates, and that is why you will come to an agreement and will follow exactly the same line of the previous governments, with all the consequences we have had so far, in the multitude from now on. As a result, workers are doing well and mobilizing. Your answers don't cover us. You need to speak in particular. It's been three and a half months. In making a recording of the problem, we probably agree. But your role is not just to record the problem. Your role - which is why the people voted for you - is to give solutions. What solutions do you give them? None.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u66	My dear colleague, we know her very well. We are an organic element of public care, we have very good knowledge of the problems and distortions of the system and we have fought for public care.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u67	I didn't question that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u68	And today we have a landscape bombed, we have a health system in complete deorganisation, we have a primary health care in dissolution. In this landscape, the government tries to give solutions as a matter of priority. We have made moves to relieve people by the 50th euros and by the joint ministerial decision for the insurers. We've made planning to meet the urgent needs with the Prime Minister's own announcements. So questioning the political will to support public care is not acceptable. The second issue. I agree with the need to increase the positions of the skilled. We're talking about redistributing vacant posts that aren't covered. It's interesting that there's no resident on the Ministry's list at this particular clinic right now. He's been appointed in a few days, and there's no one else to wait. So the problem is deeper. The problem is that young doctors in our country have emigrated abroad and there is no interest. However, because we recognise the burden of the clinic and its importance, we will look to increase its organic power with qualified doctors, without ensuring this and covering them. That's what I wanted to say. Obviously there are multiple problems. Three weeks ago we went to Crete. We held a special meeting with both my presence and with people from the Ministry on mental health matters throughout the region. We have heard, recorded needs and demands, assessed and we will set priorities. There is a question with the paedophilia clinic which - you know very well - is funded by the NRP. It must be ensured that it works and that care is continued in the sensitive population of children and adolescents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u69	Are you going to pay the workers?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u70	I have been informed by the service, my dear fellow Member, that a large part of what is due has already been paid and that the rest of it will be paid back in the next few days. Of course, there are payment problems. And there's a lot of workload. They're fifty with eighty new cases a week, requests. People do an excellent job. There is, in general, a deficit in pediatric care in Greece and we have to deal with it. Beyond meeting the urgent needs, beyond the dimmas - we will certainly have to do repetitions and patches in the system, because today it is urgent to tackle and ensure that the public system remains standing at a time when the world needs it - and beyond the management of this very difficult reality, we will also make a serious redesign of mental health policy, beyond the police and institutional logic, with emphasis on social care and social psychiatry, with emphasis on primary care and the division of services. Sectoral Committees of Physical Health will have a decisive role and not just an advisory role. There will therefore be an emphasis on the democratic planning of services, and there will be a development of pedophiliatric services. There's a plan and a study about it. Of course, there will be serious scientific and efficiency control over services for private-law, NGOs, and private psychiatric clinics. I fully agree with you that the issue of the care of the mentally ill is not just a question of humanism or of any Minister's personal sensitivity. It is a matter of human rights, it is a matter of health standards, it is a matter of dignity, equality and ultimately democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move to the sixth, with number 146/27-4-2015, a top-stage question from the MP Laconia of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, concerning the auctioning of the cage and the flower shop located in the hospital of Zakynthos. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Xanthos. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. So I'm going to ask as follows: General, what are you doing in Larissa? Doctor, what are you doing in Zakynthos? I paraphrase Nikos Engonopoulos. Why am I paraphrasing him? Because, being a Minister of Health, about ten months ago, Reverend Zakynthos came to my office. So I learned that His Eminence Zakynthos had gone to previous ministers. Now, the holy days of Easter were - on the 27th day of the month I asked - he took me to tell me many years, and I asked him if the Zakynthos Hospital case was solved, because I had gone through a special amendment, since I could not do anything, and the state was so hard towards the Minister, and all this was so well structured that it was not possible for a Minister to implement the Constitution and the laws. I was therefore forced, with the encouragement of lawyers, to make an amendment in December to solve the major problem of the Zakynthos Hospital. So I'm telling you the story. In 2002 the Reverend Zakynthos Chrysostomos along with Alekos Papadopoulos made an agreement to build the Zakynthos Hospital. They gave an area of twenty acres of the Holy Monastery of Strofadon and Zakynthos on only one condition: to write in the contract that we give it all for free, but you will give us, to the Holy Metropolis of Strofadons and Zakynthos, since it is so great the area, twenty two acres, the possibility of using the canopy and the florist. What would anyone expect from the hospital managers? Apply the will and the contract. So when the hospital went into operation, the commander of the hospital, being against a different space from where I was, but cooperating in the last period with the government of Samara - Venizelos, thought that he should not obey the contract made by the state, the state, the Minister with the Church. I will not go into any particular details, the Minister may find out. I saw there was nothing going on. I brought the amendment. I thought this was over, and I can tell you that there is still nothing to be done, because quite simply some people have too many and great interests in this process. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall end with the Minister's answer. I brought this question here, when the Lord told me that the laws of the state cannot even force certain people to back up. I have brought it, because I want to resist the current disapproval of the Constitution, of the country and of the policies. I want to be against all these groups, who are taking advantage of their position to their own advantage. I want to be against all this anarchist system, which when you give it a place, I don't know what he thinks is and does not obey the Constitution, nor the laws, nor the ministers, nor justice. For three years, therefore, this group, despite the omissions to implement the law, has not implemented it. And what's the tragic thing? When I asked him, after he did not apply the orders of the Minister who, on various papers from the Minister, sent me - because I had committed myself, as was the previous Minister who was there before me, Mr Adonis Georgiadis - to resignation, what was the tragedy? "I don't give up on you," he said, "I resign in Rigillis." Answer me for all this if there's any logic. I can't agree with any of this. I want to be against all exploiters, because I consider our Constitution and our nation to be sacred values, which I do not grant to anyone wherever it comes from.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u73	Thank you to my colleague and doctor Mr. Gregoraco. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, I understand your interest. Systemically, apparently, you've been following this. I don't know, maybe this is the major issue of Zakynthos Hospital's operation right now. As far as I know, it is a very modern hospital with very good infrastructure that has, like all hospitals in the country, very important staffing and operating problems. Evidently, then, this loose end exists. I do not go into evaluating the terms of the concession at the time, etc. There is a law, there is a decision and, in our view, it must be implemented. We await the judgment of the Multiple Court of First Instance meeting on 1 April. That's the information we have from the HR. I have also spoken with the commander of the 6th PPP who is following the matter, as soon as the final decision is reached - because he is in a court dispute at the moment, the sacred monastery against the 6th PPP and the hospital - will be applied. We have no reason, nor do we have any reason to do with interests or any of the complications you have suggested. Nor do we intend to offer immunity to previous administrations. There is a problem of cooperation between several administrations at this time in the health system with our Ministry and we are trying to deal with it as soon as possible and more efficiently. The assurance I have from the services and from the OSH is that the law will be implemented and it will function as foreseen in the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr. Gregorakos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I am truly surprised. I would like to say to the Minister that the state's operation does not stop, because some people want to hamper this state. It's very hypocritical what gentlemen do. They have appealed against a decision, a state agreement with the Church, which is completely legitimate by the Constitution. So we went to Zakynthos Hospital, we did everything, they gave up their land, and now we tell them what we signed up for is not the case. Minister, does the state itself question its signature and this signature of the State of certain interests in that region? I am astonished by what you are saying, and I am very surprised at that, because I told you what preceded it. The ministers were unable to do so and I was forced on 10 December 2014 to come up with an amendment to solve both the hands of the ministers and the justice, but I should not have done so. And I write that the amendment has passed - the leaf of government will give you it - but it is still not observed, it does not comply with the Secretary-General's mandate. And says the commanding officer for the people's interests, etc. I've read it all and I'll testify to you. He even went to trial after three months. In other words, since he sees a state that doesn't want to take a stand on it, he tells you, "This state is powerless, rather, let us do our jobs." Well, I'm against these jobs, Minister, and because I know your spirit, I want you to be across the street too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It cannot remain president of the hospital and manage the hospital to the detriment of the Greek people, the nation, the Constitution. You and I must defend this more than ever. That's why we're here and let's leave these double-cocked. On March 16, he goes and does the same thing against the Church again. I have no interest, as you understand, so I told you what a Maniattan, a Spartan in Zakynthos is doing. But I see what's going on. And what's going on I don't see you taking a seat. Will justice take? What justice? You're always going to court. It's a group of known lawyers from the 6th DC. Find out who they are, where they belong and why they do this. But I didn't see that you've learned well. I'll deliver that I have to see what they've done. It's just things the people say. I gave you twenty acres, and in those twenty acres, then the Minister, the government, the Constitution, the laws said, yes, that. If the state, the state believes that what it signed is wrong, it is not beneficial, that is another matter. But it doesn't start with the state. It starts with a group, and that is why I tell you to deal with this group, because at the moment you are representing the state and you cannot let the state break it down for its own benefit. The amendment was clear. "The revenues from the exploitation of premises and facilities for non-medical services to hospitals, visitors as well as staff, unless otherwise agreed on notarial terms - so there is a contract, I will give it to you - in cases of inheritances, legacies, etc. hospitals may operate or rent spaces and facilities as candles, florists, with the exception of the above notarial commitment.’ It's very clear. What happens again, the hospital commander, violating the minister's mandate and violating the laws and resuspensing the whole case to the courts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, I will give you the floor after making a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "World Republic", thirteen students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the 4th Elementary School of Tavros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Comrade, I said it before. I am impressed that you are raising tone so high for such a topic - I am telling you directly - on the issue of the concession of the canteens and of the hospital's florist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u80	You should have solved the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u81	It really impresses you chose to bring it in the form of the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u82	I'm impressed, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u83	Political responsibility for the management of Zakynthos Hospital is not our responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u84	Who's got it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u85	Do we have it? The ones who appointed the governors, Mr. Gregoraco!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u86	You're the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u87	You're wrong, Mr. Gregoraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u88	You're wrong! You're the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u89	You're making a complete mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Gregoraco, please, you don't have the floor. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u91	We have political responsibility for the administrations that we, the administrations of the EDP, have designated, and at this time they are trying - in a very negative environment and with problems of registered cooperation with too many administrations - to solve problems. So I told you that our political will is to implement the law. Neither do we have any interest in favorism nor the majesty factors and the interests you have implied. We have no reason to offer political coverage to these pathogens of public life in our country. Let me tell you that for all these problems there is also a political name in this country, for which political forces were tolerated, covered and reproduced these phenomena. The law will be implemented. That's our will, and that's our last conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next timely question, I would like to inform you that the second question under number 163/28-4-2015, on the second question by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, on the statements made by the Government representative on the question of increasing VAT on certain Aegean islands, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Finance and deleted. The fourth question under number 150/27-4-2015 is the second time question of the Achaias MP of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the reoccupation of former employees of the Achaia Bank in the National Bank of Greece, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, and deleted. Also, the sixth question under number 115/20-4-2015 of the second question by the MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zacharias to the Minister of Health regarding the timetable for the abolition of the Anonymous Society of Hospital Remuneration System (ESAN SA).), it will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. Next is the fifth question, No. 144/27-4-2015, on the second question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Evris Christophilopoulos, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the consultation of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs. The question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Aristides Baltas. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, about a month ago we asked you a question about their postgraduate and luck. So there you answered - I read your answer - the following: 'The dialogue will take place on the next day from which universities and TEI will return to democratic and collective function, which will make a significant contribution to voting for the direct institutional interventions that are being promoted'. I wonder, Minister, what exactly do you mean by returning democratic function to institutions and then having dialogue? And how are you going to do this, since you have even said at the Committee of Governors that you will go through the law, since, as far as the other issues of primary and secondary education are concerned, in the explanatory statement to the urgency report, which we will be discussing tomorrow, it seems that these regulations that abolish the standards, which restore a form of vote for the election of directors, all these interventions in education are taking place without dialogue? And we are not the only ones who told you, all the actors in the Committee on Forums have told you. Unfortunately, you were absent in the debate on Mr Kourakis' bill under the urgency procedure. And that's not all, but you've already made public and another bill on the abolition, not only of the evaluation of teachers, but also of the self-assessment of the educational work itself. So I ask you what you mean when you say 'democratic'. What is 'democratic' for you? Do we 'decide and order' and'react urgent', after restoring democracy, as we see it, we are having a dialogue'? You are not aware that the reforms of the n. 4009 were promoted after months of open dialogue with all the actors in the university community - and not just - and that they found support for this reason from the 2/3 of the then Parliament, as all interventions in education should have? But I'm afraid you're not just talking to society. From what we see from your speech, you are only interested in the view of your own small party interests. What exactly does the abolition of management boards mean for universities? What does the abolition of the electronic vote mean? Is that for you to return? The reintroduction to the 'graduate fathers' scheme, which gave universities to the absolute authority of the republican authorities, which were interdependent with'students' and with other interests within the universities? Is that the reinstatement of democratic function? Is that how you mean her? Forty years back? Minister, we will strongly oppose these changes and call for at least the democratic, dialogue before they come to the House. But you won't only face us. You will face a front, which has to do, not with forces within Parliament, but with forces outside Parliament, in society, a front for progress, a front that will react to the counter-reformation you bring to education. We believe that all changes in education should be made at least with 2/3 in the vote in Parliament. That requires institutional intervention. But until then, if you have the political will and the courage and the daring, you come to consult! So far you're deciding and ordering! I think, Minister, you need to change your Rota!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u95	One of the reasons why political life has been afflicted in this country is that some words tend to change content, depending on how everyone is placed politically. Two such words mentioned what Mrs Christophilopoulou said and these two I want to stand. The first is the concept of dialogue. I remind you of the n. 409. When this law began to be discussed, it was a period of exceptional tranquility in the Greek universities, which began to be disturbed as a calm when some "new" ideas came, which were supposed to solve the problems of universities. You're talking about dialogue. Of course, there was a dialogue, when these 'new' ideas were put - I remember a meeting in Delphi - and when the law arrived in the House to vote, it had the categorical refusal of all the congresses of the Greek universities at the time, as well as of all the MPs who were academics of all parties. Before raising the tons as you raised them, I would ask you to see the Minutes of those sittings of the House. It's no coincidence that, let's say, sub-cognizant of n. 4009 was "law of Diamantopoulou - Georgia". I would remind you that one of the considerations of that period that was developed in the House was that "Let the hegemony of the left be broken at the universities" rather than something different at last. I would also remind you of the following: The institution councils, as they came with that bill, after the law was passed, had a very strong "decide and order" of Mrs Diamantopoulou, who "decide and order" strongly," said that if the rector do not apply the law within two months, university funding is abolished. I do not know whether you remember this provision, which Mr Arvanitopoulos has retrospectively corrected. This is about what democracy means and dialogue typically. From that point on, you also know that universities are self-sufficient. You know that the consensus, which you refer to and which I fully respect, must be initiated by the highly sensitive bodies and organisations, which are the self-employed universities, and you may have forgotten that the rector authorities elected and abolished by v. 4009 until they completed their term of office under the Arvanitopoulos Act were not dean authorities elected on the left. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Although they were targeted, as you know, over the next few years Mylopoulou and Pelogrinos neither had a party relationship or any kind of political relationship with the Left at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u96	Peglerin was directly related to the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u97	From that point on, I would like to stand on another point because time is a bit short. Besides, we'll talk soon in the House. Dialogue on this issue in 4009 and what it contains, not only has evolved since then and with greater intensity now, not only have the basic principles of this change been laid down since the first day of the programming declarations, but I personally saw all the masters at all the meetings of the Presidents at which I was summoned, I saw the institution councils separately, I saw each of the governors who visited the Ministry of Education, who I saw until today. Your style and locations had nothing to do with the high tone you climb. We will have time to see in detail what democracy will say and what dialogue will be said in the process under way. The bill will be formally submitted at the beginning of next week, on Monday, at the "DENMARK". There'll be a couple of days that'll be discussed. It will obviously be - and I answer specific questions - an invitation from all the actors in the university community to the Committee on Educational Affairs and all the essentials and formal points of the dialogue will be developed as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u99	Because the Minister has staggered my style, I will try to thank him for the style at least. I would like to ask you, Minister, exactly what was the calmness before the n. 4009? Of course, the cemeteries have peace. Nobody was talking about why the dread was torn apart, why were teachers being built in their offices, why did violence and lawlessness prevail and could not get in the way of imposing academic freedom and the real freedom of ideas and opinions which must be expressed in a peaceful manner within the institutions, Minister? Was that the tranquility the fear of your own students were torn apart? Did you bring in vain and regulation to abolish eternal students and make the rustle to the student fathers? Is that the tranquility you invoke? Secondly, you mentioned some incidents. To prove what? That there was no dialogue on n. 4009? Or do you want to target faces? What exactly do you mean? But that is not the point, Minister. Tomorrow comes an emergency that begins to dismantle and level primary and secondary education, every concept of evaluation. You have one more to testify. Next week we'll have the abolition of the n. 4009 and reinstatement in the past. In a few weeks' time, you have circumvented everything without dialogue, with short-term or even normal parliamentary procedures, but without dialogue with society. For example, did you ask the CUSTOMS? The whole PCA wants to dismantle the n. 4009? Have you bothered to have a real dialogue, call the National Education Council? You don't want it? Of course, I know that the party you belong to has never entered into a dialogue. This is no accident, Mr President. SYRIZA and earlier the Coalition, as was said, never had any national dialogue on education, either in the Babiniotis Commission or in the intergroup dialogue that we held on technical education, the new high school, etc. You disagreed and said 'We will abolish them'. But don't talk to me about democracy, because - quite rightly you said, I'm turning it to you - democracy is the way you wanted it. I'm telling you it's done by rules. I also told your Deputy, Mr Kourakis, that he has a right, of course, because he is a government. But to have a dialogue. He has a right to change the standards. We disagree. Do you know why we disagree, Minister? I'll tell you with a crack of the past. George Papandreou once, who, as Prime Minister along with Papanoucho, brought the well-known major reform to education in 1964, said, "we said free education, not free immortality." What you are doing, with the excellence you have put across, with the standards, with the dialogue in universities, with the abolition of all concepts of democracy, even the electronic vote, leads to indecisiveness, relaxation, in the schools and universities of the minor effort, to what George Papandreou said "free insanity and not free education".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u100	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u101	The accident is that in three minutes I cannot answer all the noise that has been raised lately, which is clear slanderes of which we have forgotten thousands of clarifications that we have given and which are available to everyone. There are press releases, locations, interviews on television. For example, huge slander is that we are abolishing standards. I'm leaving it. Student fathers. Mrs Christophilopoulou, history still makes sense. Think about the history of the Greek University from Postpopulation and then think about all the rectangular elections until the n. 409. Who were the student fathers and who were those who traded with the prefectures, in quotes or without? Obviously, the orders of the New Democracy and PASOK. The Left and all its components had little participation - if they had participated - in the student elections. So the'studentity student' category cannot be addressed to us. Secondly, the law, as was before the changes that we propose and which you know, said: "As far as student voting is concerned, the vote is given to the clubs, so that the clubs, depending on the correlation between the exceptions within them, are to appoint electors, who are the ones who participate as electors in the election procedures of the rectoral authorities". So it was very clear that the partyship of the finest in terms of the relationships ahead of the Republican election was very clear. We are abolishing this, Mrs Christophilopoulou. For the first time in terms of student participation, we are abolishing precisely student patronage, prolongation, etc., because we say that all registered students are voting for a weighty vote according to the number of election participants. The more they participate, the closer the weight of the vote to the maximum, which is provided for by the law. The less they share, this percentage is reduced to possible disappearance. Moreover, when all students vote, the classes should make their propaganda within the student body in order to collect votes in favour of one or the other, but this procedure has absolutely nothing to do with what has been the case so far with regard to student voting. You're telling us we're turning back and reintroducing the party rule. Whose, anyway? The partisan rule of the New Democracy and of PASOK? Because these are the big groups right now in the student elections. Instead of telling us this, then, look at how democracy is being restored there too. As far as the institution councils are concerned, because you may not understand what the institution councils are, I'll tell you what the institution councils are. Foundation councils are a imitation of the Board of Trustes in the United States. Board of Trustes what would it mean to us? It would mean that the government or a private person gives a trust to establish, operate a university and there are those who control the trust. Apparently, in America, the administrative structure of the university that operates so is defined. It is not elected, appointed by the Board of Trustees and an administrative structure is built that controls finances and has absolutely nothing to do with academics. If there were to be an institution council in Greece, any government would have to forget all the traditions of the Greek University and the European University in general and say about each university "before an economic dowry, here is a board of foundations that handles this privilege". This will obviously appoint anyone who wants to be in command and from there on, the academic function will be released, as is the case in America. Obviously, that wasn't the institution councils. The foundation councils were a mechanism that pre-selected pre-selects against traditions that had nothing to do with democracy anywhere in the world. This pre-selection resembles the pre-selection that China wanted to do in relation to Hong Kong. This led to the insurrection of Hong Kong in favour of democracy at that time. We have not fortunately arrived here in such uprisings, but the sin of the institutions' councils as an institution - and I am obviously not referring to the faces, which I absolutely honour - was this process that still holds the Greek universities in crisis. The dialogue has run out from 2009 to today. It has been repeated many times this time, both at the pre-arranged meetings and at the council meetings and with a dean separately, so do not invoke dialogue and - to God! - don't invoke a return to the past. After all, we will soon be discussing all this again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before we move to the last of the topical questions for today, let me inform you that the seventh under number 105/20-4-2015 topical question by Congressman Larisa of Potamio Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the procedure for selecting hospital administrations, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, may I have the floor for a moment, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u104	But you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u105	I would just like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u106	Here, you have the floor for just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u107	I won't need a minute, Mr. President. I just wanted to point out that this is the third postponement. I also wanted to point out that this is a major issue. I don't think it's a matter of obstruction. I think it is a matter of political evasion. I would also like to state - at the risk of being handwriting or in the newest term 'roll' - that I will present it every Thursday from now on until the Minister finds a long way to respond to the major issue of the way in which hospital administrations are manned, which he systematically refuses to do. I repeat - and I close with this - that this is a political evasion. I will keep the words of contempt for parliamentary control, etc., for the next time, because I suspect that next time I should have something to say about the absence of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u108	In agreeing on the point of order, it is important to avoid expressions of the type 'avoidance', etc. After all, if you want to talk about the substance, it is not a chapter not to resign the previous administrations of hospitals with'so I want' and to wait for their allowances, which are unfavourable and unvadadorable for the current government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u109	I'm talking about young people, not old people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u110	It is probably the responsibility of those who have rounded up their political positions, while the political leadership responsible for this issue tells them to resign. In any case, I recognise the point of order as you put it and will be transferred to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the eighth Question No 106/20-4-2015 topical and urgent question by Mr Kyriakos Harakidis, to the Minister of National Defence, concerning articles by the manufacturer (Lockheed Martin) on the reconstruction of the obsolete P-3B aircraft and the counter-proposals by the Minister of State for Defence, is not being discussed and deleted. The ninth under number 123/20-4-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Health, concerning health measures to protect the citizens of the Ilias Tower due to the accumulation of waste in the area, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction and deleted. Also, the tenth question under number 131/21-4-2015, the second question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the launch of the program "Solidization at home" under the Partnership Agreement (EPC) 2014-2020 and the re-launch of the building activity, is not discussed due to the failure of the Minister and deleted. Also, the first question by number 407/3-2015 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and of the Athens Parliament, Mr Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Health, regarding the resignations of administrative hospitals, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Finally, the second question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Health, concerning the impact on the economy of northern Greece on the free movement of products with Skopje, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. We continue with the third timely question under number 887/17-3-2015 of the MP Heraklion of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the delay in the implementation of programmes of approved funding amounting to EUR 600 million through the NSRF to create a hundred sixty thousand new jobs. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Urania Antonopoulou, who is present. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. You made a mistake, of course. This is not a timely question. It is a simple question, which has not been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u114	You're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u115	The Ministry didn't bother to answer. Of course, if that was a matter of organising the first days, it is justifiable. However, this is a serious matter and Parliament's control must not be discredited. The same applies to the previous issue. The third time means that while the Bureau itself has announced that there will be no such phenomenon, we see that there is a system now. So look at it as the Bureau. We do not actually go into the matter, because if we actually go into the matter, I will say that you are not right to justify the government with what you said before, because it is unjustified that it does not interfere with such administrations looking at compensation from the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u116	You're wasting your time, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, the issue of unemployment is very important. Everyone starts from there and invokes it in any public position, such as individuals, politicians, parties, etc. The only effective way to tackle the phenomenon of unemployment, of the problem experienced by each family, is to agree, in many cases, that it is the real economy, investment and development. Of course, this positive shift in the past period was expressed by reversing the negative rate of unemployment. 28%, which was last year, has already been made 25% since February, ELSTAT announced. This is due to the real economy. Of course, the programmes, which are well because we will make use of European and national resources, give employment opportunities and help in this work of job opportunities, which is why the question is more than timely. It was written, but it's more than time-consuming. Why, while the programs were ready, why, while someone had started, is there a dystocia three, four months now? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. In particular, I am referring to the Joint Labour Programme - prepared and approved by the IASC - where, unfortunately, until now - it has, of course, gone ahead for the municipalities, but for the thirty-two thousand have not achieved the results - nothing has been done about the ministries and the regions. About the entry check for young people on the labour market, graduates of HEIs, where is the notice? For ESDC graduates, PAAL, IKE, where is the notice? The 'Youth Guarantee' programme for the young people eighteen to twenty-eight years has remained behind. These are approved programmes, forward programmes - I add this - with ready money. So I ask what stage is each programme? It's ten programs. I shall table a list of ten programmes. Of course, and whatever else it takes, I'll give it to my second speech. We need to be answered by the Minister responsible for each programme separately what it has been like since he took over that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mrs Antonopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying that two questions have already been tabled, which have been answered in writing. We are coming back and as we take your questions, we will continue to answer them. I'm not sure what you're talking about when you say we haven't answered. Anyway, I'd like to get to the point. Our government is accused of taking time, without plan and cruising compass at too many levels. So we are now coming to blame that we are working in the Ministry of Labour. It's a plastic picture in general. I think it will collapse as soon as the negotiations that we are all waiting for are mutually beneficial. But let me confine myself to the work on our Ministry. What you say 'delay', for us, is really necessary, a time necessary, so that we can redesign the programmes that you say we have found, forward in order to maximise the benefits for the unemployed. I would like to reassure you first of all by saying that we are already on a very good path. Let me get an example. You asked exactly what happened to the A.I.S. graduates, T.I. We have redesigned and what we have achieved is, with our own resources available, to be able to integrate instead of the seven thousand that your own programming predicted, twelve thousand five hundred, that is, we have increased the number of beneficiaries without reducing - I repeat, without reducing them - the amount they will receive. I think it is understandable to everyone the net benefit of this decision to redesign. Second example: We redesigned the training program in high-skilled skills of the Greek economy, which refers to the unemployed eighteen to twenty-four years old - this is part of 'Youth Guarantee'. And what did our redesign do? Increase the earnings of young people participating by 84%. I note that we have achieved this through creative and constructive dialogue, in cooperation with all the sectors involved that implement the programme, including SETE, which concerns the part that corresponds to tourism. Our interventions come to undo the deliberately cultivated impression of apathy, inertia and slowness of the Ministry of Labour. Perhaps this is due to the fact that we do not always advertise our work. We do and then announce that the people and the unemployed will be able to see why we are stalling, as you say. I repeat that we say we take the time needed to raise the benefits for the unemployed. In one of the programmes that have already been implemented - and you referred to this - and concern the requirement for young people to enter eighteen to twenty-four and twenty-five to twenty-nine, and which is still regular, as we have received, and continues - this was the case: the ten thousand of them, over forty thousand, benefiting, were attentive. In other words, some of the people who had to join did not show up, and so they were remorseful. In order to understand why we are delaying, there were three options at this point, which were as follows: the first option is to drop arbitraryly from the programme by some, because they had exceeded the age limit. But that would be unfair. The second option would also be to include them arbitraryly, which would be illegal. And if there were any control by the European Union, the government would be asked to pay, to stop what it is doing, because they would be illegally integrated. The third case and our attempt is to find a legitimate and fair solution. This is a long time ago, however, because it involves consultation with the European Commission. That's what we're doing, that's what we're doing. Once we have the answer, we will incorporate all the ten thousand missing. In this particular case, I have to say that the problem was raised, because in the communication that has come out, it has not been included that if there is a time when any young person who has joined and exceeds the age limit, he will in fact not be able to participate. So we have to make some corrections. The fact is that we must not judge from the effects of a policy, especially in such a short period of time, and much more when it is trying to change the quality of this policy. If you need more explanations, very gladly, because it has indeed begun and made improvements to the programme to which you have referred and related to socially beneficial work. In fact, I have given you a written answer to that. But, if you like, we would be very happy to continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, Mrs Antonopoulou, we are debating today because the question has not been answered. Otherwise, we wouldn't talk. So what are you saying you've answered? That's what we're talking about! Because the question has not been answered. If it had been answered and questions were not met, then on the basis of Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, we would have gone to a question. So don't tell me he's answered. Is the Bureau violating the Rule and bringing the question to a live debate? On the contrary, I see that you're popular in the media and you're saying things. You have written press releases, etc.. So write down an answer that you don't have to ask here. That's it! I don't have a problem. The lively conversation is very good, too. However, I am not responsible for it, but for the fact that the unanswered question has come to Parliament. That is what I want it to be cleared up so that I don't think I'm doing anything too far. At this point, I would like to add that every quality improvement is welcome. Besides, I'm not dogmatic about this. After all, I was not in charge of this programme. All qualitative improvements must therefore be made. But, you know, she's supposed to be on the move. Because if we put a brake on it, which will lead to such a deferral of programmes, which are not usable, then it will be wrong. For example, in terms of tourism, which you mentioned, the programme should be started tomorrow, or it should have started yesterday, in order to synchronise it with the tourist season. At least that's what I think. As for the municipalities - for which precious time has been lost - in the spring period, until autumn, summer and autumn, it is necessary for the additional, additional workers, seasonal workers in municipalities, regions and ministries. And that's because of the peculiarity that our country has. So, if you bring it in the fall to be hired, it will be ineffective for the work they do to the agencies that will go. In this sense, there should be a combination and we should find the best solution to improving quality and time. So don't say why we're asking why we're fighting. That's our job, anyway. Parliamentary control is because three and a half months are not slipping the programmes. That's the job. You'll hear them alone. Then you'll hear four and a half, then five and a half, then six and seven months. That is why it is important that you move forward as quickly as possible. What do I want to point out? There has been no significant improvement in social work. Two - three corrections were made, could be made within a month. It was already approved by the AACC and the OAED is ready to get it out. We're late. But especially for the eighteen thousand, the rest, the call is gone? Why isn't he coming out? Where is he? Why didn't he go out together? Why didn't you make the corrections? Will you increase the programme from five to ten months, will it? For the five-month programme of the municipalities, will it now become a ten-month period, as you said 'Cockino' radio? Is it going to happen? If it is done, it will be a good thing. But I doubt it. With regard to the regions, has Mrs Durou calmed her objections to previous government and now wants workers from public work? I have here her statements - I will put them down - which says that if they are not from time and above and if they do not receive a basic salary of EUR 751, they do not want it. Should we be looking there for the cause of the long delay in what we should put in and change? I am also saying that the Attica region, with the greatest unemployment problem, was not in its hands, but the intentions were political in the previous period. We have an operational program approved from December 17th, the Operational Programme for Human Resources Development. I'll testify to approval in the minutes, one page is. The program is five hundred pages. Shouldn't all this run? What are you talking about? Can quality improvement be expected in two years to see a contribution from the operational programme? The programme runs from 17 December. And don't say the previous government's been delayed. With regard to the 20 million for guaranteed income, I would ask you, because with an approved operational programme they can be absorbed immediately, to consult with the other Deputy Minister, Mrs Fotio, because it is her responsibility for guaranteed social income, the beneficiaries of guaranteed social income in the pilot project to enter a reintegration programme, as provided for in the operational programme. This wasn't in the forward actions, it's in the normal operational program, named. I will also report the pages of the development program to see: You will see on page 30, 42 and 70, in order to find this forecast. Because this combination of financial support and reintegration must also work in order to fully assess the guaranteed social income. Therefore, our concern has nothing to do with it, except with the need to make use of resources that have been guaranteed for the country by the ESRB, by the European Social Fund, with approved budgets, projects and programmes, and to contribute to tackling the problem of unemployment, especially young people, because each family is seeing one, two, three, four or all unemployed. And we don't need the security we have in our home and in our chair to say we'll improve it qualitatively. He's interested in getting a job. And, of course, improve quality and along the way. You want to do the five months, ten? You can do them after people are hired. Who forbids you? As long as money is found. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you have said so much and you have raised so many issues that of course you do not expect that I can answer them in three, five or ten minutes. Let me start with the last thing you said, that we should use the 20 million, which corresponds to jobs for people who have already joined the minimum guaranteed income. If you had predicted that there would be the staff who would consult them in time, we would already know which of those who have joined would have access to these programmes, which we are talking about. And they would have joined. You didn't. We're doing it now. So don't be so anxious about this. So I should go back to the questions you asked. With regard to delays - what you are baptizing delays, what we are saying improvements - the people judged us are the unemployed. That is what we are trying to support. About the fact that we found half the country's own money for the period 2014-2020 - half the money! - I'll say that. There have been forward actions that you have defined how they will be done. So let me get an example now, so that the world can understand and you must continue with the redesign. One of the programmes, which we are discussing at the moment, has to do with the requirement to train unemployed people in areas of economic activity with compulsory two-month employment and which has serious design problems. And I will say the following that we have identified and why we say: 'No, we will not start it and we will not run it. We will redesign it."
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u124	That's one of ten. The other nine?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Kegeroglu, we said when we don't agree, we don't yell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u126	I couldn't agree more. But the other nine?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u127	If you fully agree, listen to me, please, with coolness. Somebody had it planned, someone had approved it. And if you were following this practice, that should have started too. We're talking about a lot of money. We're talking about 112 million. Well, since you know them, they're the famous program I'm talking about, which says that 75% went to training centres that were trying to do their job, and only 25%... etc. So we agree at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u128	One.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u129	One. That one in the many things you tell me why we are delaying. Let me finish if you're kind. There is reason to look at one - one of the programmes and where we can - we improve them in time, because in time they would run the front. Right? Within the time, then, in 2015, all the places, which are planned, will be created and benefit the unemployed, as we can and have an obligation to do right now. Let me refer to the public, because you mentioned it. When we said we would do some public service checks, we came in full consultation with the municipalities. The municipalities, after three consultations needed to complete it, agreed that the improvements are real and will follow them, because we planned them together. The program you said about tourism we did it in collaboration with SETE. Now in the summer it's supposed to be about fifty thousand jobs. This is the forecast for tourism. At the time that fifty thousand jobs will be created, your view is that the apprentices should now enter. We therefore have a timetable, so that within time, precisely in compliance with the obligations you have said, we can implement and complete, without having any heterogeneous adjustments, which are burdening the unemployed. And, of course, it is also the implementation we need to do, because there are many co-operative bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u130	For the regions, if you're kind, tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u131	One final word on the regions and the rest of the public sector. We asked what criteria were these positions that correspond to each Ministry? How did they come out? On what criteria? Why did one ministry ask for eight thousand posts and another thirteen? And how does this get up to date? We have received an answer, which was not at all satisfactory. We put this aside, however, because, as you have been told, we are not particularly interested in making complaints. Since then, however, the position has changed to date, conditions have changed in every ministry. Should they not, then, update?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u132	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u133	If, therefore, you have a little patience by the end of the month, these will be updated and, depending on the needs of each Ministry, the Ministry of Culture takes the lead, because it needs them now - more jobs will be announced, after one or two months, so that each Ministry can use this opportunity for the purpose it serves most.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u134	Does Mrs. Durus have that view?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u135	We thank the Minister and, more generally, the very interesting debate, especially in the last timely question. The topical and urgent debate is closed. We are interrupting for a few minutes until the twelfth November, where we will proceed to the legislative work, under the chairmanship of Mr Metropoulou, in particular, in the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: 'Democratisation of the administration - Combat Written and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions', and in the continuation of the debate on the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: 'Existing measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Vote to the entire draft law of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democratisation of Administration - Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions". Asked by this House: Is the bill accepted and as a whole distributed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u137	SYRIZA says 'yes'. The New Democracy is missing. Golden Dawn what does it say, Mr. Grego?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u138	We are saying 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u139	How about you, Mr. Theochari, from the river?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u140	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u141	How about you, Mr. Katasotis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, because they have informed me today that in various places where there are 'available' and dismissals, the JRC has not voted for the 'available' reintroduction of the 'available' ones, we must state from here that these are misery and that we have tabled a number of amendments supplementing these articles so that they can return to their positions and those which do not include the draft law. I am making this statement, Mr President. Thank you for your time. We say in the bill as a whole'residence', because there are not enough outside workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u143	Yes, Mr Katsotis. Well done and you clarified it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u145	Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u146	I would also like to make an intervention because we are suddenly watching a change. The administrations of the High Commissioners have not been designated - because the House has not been able to reach a consensus of the 4/5 of the Conference of Presidents - in order to get legal compositions to these independent authorities so that we can find a solution to this timely problem. We observe that this bill has removed the automatic renewal of six months, so it actually tries to renew the terms of these principles. In particular, one day after the previous meeting we have had, we have seen a decision by the PSE, the Broadcasting Council, which may be extended to indefinitely, in order to circumvent the consensus that the constitutional legislator puts through a majority of 4/5 of the conference. We want to condemn any such attempt by the government. We hope not to circumvent constitutional procedures but to define sound and legitimate compositions in the administrations of the independent authorities. And only if she does that will be able to solve the problem of time-consuming problems, in particular media licences, which have so much been advertised by the government to put their interests in the field of information. If he does not do so and renews the term of office of the mother of the President of the Parliament, then he will find us vertically opposite and we want the government to take a stand on this major issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u147	The Independent Greeks, Mr. Papachristopoulos, what are you voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u148	We are voting 'yes', Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u149	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction: "Democracy of the Administration Combat Writing and Electronic Governance - Restoration of injustices and other provisions" was accepted by a majority as being distributed, in the first place, to the articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u150	Continue the debate on the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Emerging measures to tackle violence in sport and other provisions". We will conclude the list of Members registered. There are seven speakers left and there are also seven parliamentary representatives left, those who will be asking for the floor. We will shortly be announcing the possible time - a great approach - to hold the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u152	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u153	I would like to ask the Minister a question, so that those of us who are going to speak and those who are going to vote will also know. Does the Minister intend to make any legal improvements or is it the project that has been distributed to us? We want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u154	Mr Contonis, you have the floor to answer Mr Koutsoukos' question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u155	Representative, I would like to tell you that yesterday we had a call ring with UEFA to understand exactly what its objections are, despite the fact that what I brought here with legislative improvements were agreed. So we're dealing with a few issues, if they can be compatible...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u156	See what plan Mr Koutsoukos has to deal with is another plan. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u157	I imagine, colleague, you've got the latest state-of-the-art. So, Mr President, we have been looking at these for a short time, and if there is anything, we will be announcing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u158	Minister, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, eighteen members and five escorts from the Center for Social Care with Intellectual Response. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I wish you all good health and all good. Mr. Papachristopoulos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, and only the fact - at least this is how it was written in the press - that you were so overwhelmed by the global federations, which came into question whether we would be represented in European or global football, for me, this shows that you are determined. This, for me, is a positive step. I want to believe that globalisation has been felt very much in our minds, particularly in the field of sport and, above all, in the field of football, we have felt the poorly understood globalisation - and I do not know whether there is a well-intentioned concept. And I am explaining that for years we have been living presidents of large clubs being indicted or imprisoned, referees or players of football to have strange, unjustified enrichment. I do not want to refer to examples. You know and we know a lot. We have reached the point where football, which is a popular sport and - I believe - is still the only authentic entertainment - that we are once happy to go to the stadiums - to be a performance for two roles, although sometimes for one and another for three. All the others are satellites and look to be costed behind the strong and “land fire is melting.” This resulted in the disdain of Greek football, where the stadiums are armies of fanatic fans and does not dare the family to touch. I think that the great success we have seen in 2004 - nobody disputes it, everyone spoke of a miracle - was a miracle. Indeed, some children struggled and so on. The result - because we didn't last in this story - was to see reality again in the face. The safest way to gain economic, social and political power is to have a channel - and if it falls out - or a strong team and we see how we can do it. I want to believe that there is a characteristic and bright example of sport, but it is not just football, it is other things. We meet almost every weekend, where we see the ministers - whom I really see being in a difficult position - apologise for a reality that is not certain that they have created it. Every weekend something's going on. This thing has to end. Sports, first of all, it's not just football. And there's a man who's been dealing with the track, the marathons. No one is involved in Greece. Why? Once a match was played in "STORY" and a few fifteen people were rich. It didn't even have to be played - so I say globalisation in Greece - it was played in distant places and not even in legitimate betting companies. Minister, you have before you a challenge, because I think you can take positive steps with this bill, but you will know that you sit firmly in an electric chair and perhaps it is the only ministry that every weekend should be accountable to people. I won't eat you any more time. I sincerely hope that you will continue. I would just like to remind you that in Great Britain, Thatcher dared, tossed the teams from both Europe and everywhere after the events of Shazer. In Italy, teams of holocausts, such as Yuventus, flew in the second and third categories. I know you're taking a positive step. But I think it's not the last one, and you may have to do something stronger later. I don't want to say anything else. I think that you are taking many steps in the right direction. Again, the fact that we have come to threaten us by UEFA to throw us out I consider it a step in the right direction. We'll vote for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr Dimitris Sevastakis has the floor. Mr. Sevastakis is missing. Mr. Dimitris...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u161	I'm here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u162	Do not rush, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u163	Excuse me, Mr. Sevastaki. I would like to inform you that I consider it possible to hold the roll-call vote at no more than 14: 30 at 15: 00. We will give the floor, as is customary for dentistry, to special speakers for four minutes, who want to use. We have the seven Members of Parliament and four other Members are left. Therefore, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President, for both sides of your wish and your determination. I will not deal very much with the aspects of the main bill that has come, namely the sporting area, because I think it is a cultural self-evident thing that we all have the deep conviction that this is a very problematic regime. All the political areas of this House have pointed this out. It's a common place. It produces violence, produces underculturalism, and in this sense the bill tries to manage this dark "hole" of public life, which makes us all sad regardless of collective preferences. And personalization through the online ticket and the criminal track, the "threatening" part of the financial impact and the "subjects" - not only of the arbitrators, but also of the wider factors, because it is of great interest to see how each individual's personal economy is related to his or her involvement with football - all of this I think is renowned. At least the direction of all the parties to this House, as shown by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, is quite solid. I'll stay on both sides of the bill on education. On the one hand, it concerns the abolition of the theme bank. I think there's been a misunderstanding. The theme bank is not incriminating on its own. Obligation is incriminating as a problem and, above all, reproducing the main flaw in education function, which is reporting. Closed answer to a closed question or a combination of them, i.e. a disguised lysari. The machine-topic bank reproduces the structure of the chain. This may help you in everyday life to read your daughter, it may help a teacher to complete the stress of question production, but it does not help the critical thought and cognitive combination that education must bring. So I think that having the safe background of the topic bank, but leading the teacher - and those who have been involved in education know that the teacher has a personal bank, his own topic bank - should think about the question, there is the centre, which means gaining supervision of all possible responses, that leads him to deepening and I think it can make him inspire cognitive fields and perceptive fields that are very important within the classroom. The incident within the classroom is of interest. The production of thinking within the class, i.e. within the school forum, is of interest and not the automatic withdrawal of a closed combined response. I think that the new form of thought, interdisciplinaryity, the intersection of cognitive fields, that leads too much of the literature or meditation reveals an amazing combination of knowledge. I do not want to mention the late Condylis and the far-reaching evidence tools, or to talk about the anti-Antoniaean thought. So I think that the non-compulsory bank of topics is a course towards 'difficulty'. It complicates the problem, complicates the problem, but I think it creates a decorative mechanism within the educational process. I have reservations - I have had enough - in the sense of supplementation. I think it should give a bigger range of alternatives. The replacement makes you targeted in terms of your political choices, whether you choose it or the other form of mobilization, and this helps in political depth. Controversy makes you politically more perceptive, trains you. I think a piece of unscrupulous choice has been paid for as a political scene. Political facilities very often destroy the best of intent and we see it in our own political scene. I think, therefore, that it would be the greatest range in terms of the replacement tools in this direction. For the average of nine and a half, I consider this to be an important question. I think that the act itself has overcome such dilemmas. Too often there's a rounding, because you don't just want to pile up students who either are completely negative or wrong, and they have a good presence, cut off for half a unit. I think it's a school question. However, by returning to the central claim, if we extend the debate on education a little later tomorrow, we will see that it is quite operational. For the part of the bank, I think we need to take care not only of the abolition of a bad or problematic element which, moreover, appeared from its applications, but also of the composition of a position. We need to see as a political scene where he's going, what the educational army is. It is not just the production of wealth, the recompense and what the various people say. It is that it creates social equilibrium tools. How do you internalize the crisis, the discount, your social self-determination, if not by meditation, thought, with education? Education is beyond economic recompense. It's something much deeper. That is why advanced capitalism - I say it for other aspects of the political system - has no such impediments. He takes the talent regardless of cognitive direction. With these thoughts, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr Sevastakis, for the interesting speech. You always talk interesting. Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor, Mr. George Stylos is followed and we are finishing the list of speakers with Mr. Geramos Giakoumatos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, my professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u167	I see that the Minister will ask me for the floor and that those of the seven Members of Parliament who have asked me for the floor are asking for the floor. Mr. Dimitris Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the government counts for a hundred days. Usually this is a necessary time for a government to draw up its own course, to give its own political stigma. But the present government, unfortunately, seems to have neither a compass nor a course. It creates an uncertainty for the citizen, as well as a political blur. The Prime Minister's day is re-emerging. The President of PASOK, Evangelos Venizelos, is calling on the Prime Minister to inform us of the negotiations, the major theme of the days, and instead the Prime Minister chooses to answer current questions. The conclusions of yours! I leave to your judgement what's urgent. Three months now the government is negotiating. We're waiting for her results. I hope it does not lead the country to a political deadlock. The country, unfortunately, has lost valuable time. We all naturally want negotiations to succeed for the good of our country and our children, but at last, govern. That's why you were chosen by the Greek people for what you promised in the election. Ladies and gentlemen, the treatment of violence in sport is primarily a matter of culture and is a priority, I would say, for all of us. PASOK supports every measure that moves towards the fight against violence, but of course also the resolution of Greek sport. I would like to say from the outset that we have seen the most of the articles in the bill positively, but we have some serious objections to some of them. Article 1 confers powers on the Minister for Administrative Penalties, and that is why we have tabled a proposal which the Minister has accepted. Any fines should be imposed, with the opinion of the IAEA, to consult the Minister with the IAEA and the sports federation concerned, both in order to stop a race and in order to stop the championship. Also, when it comes to international organizations, the consultation will of course take place with the international federations, a procedure which defines the supremacy of the respective Minister. However, it is necessary to ensure the independence and objectivity of the IAEA vis-à-vis it. This can be done and we propose it through specific, transparent, open procedures for its formation. With regard to Article 2 on the electronic ticket, we consider the electronic supervision of sports facilities to be positive. We must, however, see how it is implemented. These are, of course, improvements to the existing ones. With regard to Article 3, what is needed today is a modern institutional framework for the operation of fan links in the form of unions, in order to avoid shadow networks. We also object to Article 5 on the selection procedure for judges and, of course, on Article 15, on the actual role of the Minister in the self-government of the OSH. For these articles, we expect the final draft. Of course, everything that creates Grexit set up for the Greek teams and our national team finds our opposition. We disagree vertically on what has to do with the Minister's intervention in the self-government of the NDP, as I have said before. On the basis of the Statutes of FIFA and UEFA, the NCA shall refer only to them. It is a permanent authority of FIFA and UEFA that their members have to manage the cases autonomously without the influence of third parties. Any involvement of the State in the self-government of the NCA means exclusion from the Greek groups from European and international organisations, both at the level of associations and at the level of national groups. That's the reality. Furthermore, Minister, we do not understand why Articles 13 and 14 on education are included and we will certainly not vote on them. Because the topic bank does not despair, as the government claims, high school. There may have been some weaknesses, but this is not a reason to remove a progressive institution that has operated effectively over the years and in other countries, a institution that prejudges equal opportunities in education. The theme bank, colleagues and colleagues, firstly, ensures that all the material is taught. Secondly, it encourages students to attend teaching. Thirdly, it ensures weighted and objective examinations. The Minister could - of course, Mr Baltas is not here - upgrade and improve, not dismantle and dismantle. Now, of course, remove all the essential content and allow it to function with an advisory role. This is a setback and exploitation of an institution, since you are typically maintaining it, just to keep the funds of the NRP. This is neither left nor progressive. As for the other provisions, it is obvious - we have said so from the outset - that it is like closing the eye on the occupations. We do not consent or agree with the relaxation with which you are facing 9.5. It's not a numerical problem. The problem, Minister, Mr Balta, is that you're throwing the bar enough. Students need to target progress. The way you propose to promote a high school student is like applauding the least possible effort. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we agree on a great deal. This bill gives us a chance to face the violence on the ground. To be able to go with our children without fear. Let the family go back to the field. Our children must be fans. To make our children love sport, to love the field as fans. Be healthy fans, not blind followers. But we still need another bill to look at sport as a whole. We are waiting for this, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u169	It's over two minutes earlier!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. Thank you for the time, as Mr Yakoumatos has said, and he will do the same. Mr Georgios Stylos, Member of the New Democracy, is called in Stepma for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke about the bill and sport yesterday. Today I want to make a position on the articles relating to the Ministry of Education. The question arises: We are satisfied with the way in which the school operates before the n. 4186/2013? I personally believe no. I would remind you that it was only in the directional courses and, essentially, general education or selection courses that were annulled in practice, despite the valuable efforts of many teachers. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4186/2013 sought a school friendly to the student, flexible, efficient and effective, with educational self-catering. He sought to reintroduce his educational autonomy to the general high school, i.e. to have an essential educational role, to regain his authority and to offer high standards of education. No specific arguments have been put forward as to how the student was harmed by the bank. I know that he offered extra exercises and questions, with a view to understanding, deepening and better knowledge of the course. In fact, its material is given for use, having taken note of the EPA, in order to ensure appropriate use. From personal experience, but also from our children, we know that the purchase of school aid is very common, with a view to further understanding and deepening of the matter. The theme bank shall ensure that knowledge is distributed in a universal, uniform and independent manner from the geographical or socio-economic origin of the pupils and pupils of the country. At the same time, it seeks to strengthen the objectivity and reliability of the examinations. It serves to determine the degree of achievement of the learning objectives set out in the detailed programmes. Besides, internationally, the topic banks are in many cases tools for standardising examination procedures, improving the quality of the education system and ensuring equal access to higher education. So I think it would be useful for the state to provide students with the subject bank and to incorporate it into the curriculum of teaching material, with the logic of teaching material, the exercises and questions of the school book. And if you'd like, release the theme bank from the level of access to tertiary education. It is therefore possible for a teacher and student, if they want, to work on the subject of the course in a substantial way. We should finally understand that knowledge is not acquired if you take your bag with the puzzle pieces, which is what the parrot offers. You need to compose the image that needs combinations, judgment, reasonable combinations and trouble. This role was called upon to serve the theme bank. Ladies and gentlemen, the students from the 1st grade in practice will only end up reading four lessons, which will be examined in Greece. Because they will know that their promotion will be incomplete, since an average '9.5' - not even '10' - will be reached to promote them in the next order. For example, a student can be promoted in high school with even "4" in mathematics and physics, it is enough to complete the marvelous "9.5" as an average of the scores of the other courses. And this, when a student in high school respectively has to have an average of 12.5. I'm going to testify a far-reaching example I took from the Internet, which put up a public teacher, to show that the student is being promoted in high school a lot easier than high school. I'm reporting to you attributes. A student of the First High School who in the School of Political Education will write "13", in the Religious "17", in the selection class "16", in the research work "16" and in the English "12", can in all other courses write "5" and "7" and be promoted. I am tabling the relevant example of my colleague on the Internet. [[At this point, the honourable Member, George Stylus, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when the learning process focuses only on specialisation courses, the real objective of the educational process is to provide integrated knowledge and global education. In relation to the provision concerning the replacement of teaching hours, I would remind you that every year in the autumn we have the phenomenon of school recruitment. Hours, days, and often months of teaching are lost. The provision, which you reintroduce, does not guarantee the completion of the curriculum and the material being examined. Ladies and gentlemen, do all the students in high school want to be promoted instantly? Do we want them to finish high school and not at least know the language and mathematics? If so, we are not in favour, but at the expense of children and the poorest. In essence, the provision of cylindrical education necessary for the formation of integrated personalities and active citizens is abolished. This has a more general impact on the quality of education provided in high school at the expense of children who are not going to go to university, who are sentenced to low-level education, a minor effort without substantial cultural content and without the control of learning. This is an entirely anti-grassian and non-progressive approach which reduces the educational character of high school and raises hopes and expectations for young people. The lack of basic knowledge on which scientific or vocational training can be based leads with mathematical accuracy to unemployment and vocational marginalisation. That is why we are voting against these articles. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Gerasimos Yakoumatos is invited to Step. Then the Minister will take the floor, Mr. Valavani, and then, if he wishes, Mr. Kontonis. Parliamentary representatives will then be given the floor in parliamentary order, and I think we can review the objective of the roll-call vote and at no later than 14.30 p.m. I don't see any crusades after the messages from the lenders, relaxed I see you, so we keep going. Mr. Yakumato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u173	Mr President of the House, all Greeks and all the wings, my respectful professor, Mr Metropoulou, ladies and gentlemen, tell the Ionian people that the gag is gaunting. Let us not forget that in Lixouri, in my village, we say, Mr. Minister, "Take a man from Lixouri, have a man and a donkey". And why am I saying that? I say that, Minister, because you are convinced. I mean, I don't get it. A little bad if my eye comes out or yours, Greece's eyes don't come out! That's what worries me. You did very well and went to Geneva, Losan. We went to Kosani, you in Losan. Very well. You discussed with FIFA and UEFA and agreed, you said, and you come here and you put an addition on internal affairs, which you can put your finger on. These are not the creation of the imagination of the New Democracy, Minister. Our rapporteur, Mr Koukodemou, has tabled the paper in English and in the Greek FIFA, Mr Minister, which says in words - that is what FIFA says, the world and European football instruments - 'not to be regarded as violating the principle that all FIFA and UEFA federations must regulate their affairs independently and without the influence of any third party', as you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u174	That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u175	That's not what the law says. The law says you have the right to deal with internal affairs of the NDP. Remove the self-employed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u176	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u177	And because you say that, Minister, in words, make a statement and put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u178	I said yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u179	And because you say that, you said something much more dangerous. All right, guys, we're voting for the whole Parliament, all the Members of Parliament, and then if UEFA disagrees, I'll bring an amendment and change it. Are these serious things?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u180	Have I said such a thing? I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u181	You said that, I heard you before. You said if he disagrees, they'll throw us out, I'll change it. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u182	I've never said such a thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u183	Well, that's what you said. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u184	I didn't say that. Are you stuck in 2006?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u185	No, I'm stuck in the phony Ethnic Year of 2015 that you rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u186	Well, if you'd like, I can read you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u187	You are trying to abolish the self-help, having as a Trojan Horse your Ministry and putting your hand through the back door to the generations of sport in Greece. We had Mr. Andrianu's bill, which was in a very good direction. Who objects to improving it even more with you and helping the New Democracy? Because it is incomprehensible what has happened. Yesterday I witnessed and envied the fight, Minister, Barclay and Bayern. It was a hundred thousand fans and even cigarettes didn't light up! Here, in this, Minister, we are next to you. Don't move your head. We're next door, neither back nor forward. We're next door to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u188	You see...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u189	Sectors not in the self-employed. It hurts your hand, you don't cut it, Mr. Petrako. Head hurts, you can't cut it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u190	Can I read you the layout?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u191	Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u192	As you say of influence by third parties, the provision says: "Taking into account that the NCA manages its internal affairs independently and without influence by third parties". It's a copy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u193	You guys haven't put in the cases...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u194	The only thing we disagree on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u195	Intervention! You're the ones who've added. That's text, but you've added it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u196	Beware, the provision says "her internal affairs" and there is a disagreement with the international federation, which wants to be written "her own affairs". I told the House yesterday, at the National Representation, that it was the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u197	It's not the same. So why don't you change it if it's the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u198	Put 'for her cases', Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u199	I'm sorry 'her own cases'. Isn't that what it says in English?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u200	No 'internal'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u201	Put that on and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u202	You want this? So, you're making this proposal for me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u204	All right, I'll be placed. However, Mr Yakumato, I tell you that as far as 'without third parties and independent third parties' is concerned, this is a copy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u205	Minister, listen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is a copy and you put there that they handle internal affairs. Take this off and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u206	I'm telling you again that I made a statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u207	I've told you since yesterday morning, take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u208	And I said, Mr. Yakumato, to see that we're not hiding here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u209	Are you well-off?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u210	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u211	Take it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u212	You're proposing to me. All right, I'll consider the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Secretary, mercy! We have been telling you since yesterday, let us take this vote. What else can we tell you? That is why you have forced us to vote for a roll-call vote because you are not making it. Since yesterday, we've been telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u214	She can accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u215	If he accepts it, there is no problem for roll-call vote. But accept it, not words. Anyway, Minister, I'm telling you that only on suspicion that they can throw us out of global football, do you realize what can be done? Only Zimbabwe is outside world football. Only Zimbabwe! Is Greece going there too? We had Argentina, we knew, Brazil, we knew, now we have to go, Zimbabwe? So beyond that, we also have economic disasters, Minister. You have given the OPCW, you have huge tax revenues, you have to consider these and not to play it in the dice. What we told you, make it clear and we will vote on it. In any case, for everything else, soccer really needs redress, that arbitration really needs redress - I had the luck of having a arbitrator's brother for too many years - where you need to intervene, of intervening with the support of the New Democracy. It will be next to you on such issues, but not to issues that jeopardise the country. "Grexit" in football doesn't raise Greece! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr Yakumato, for your constructive intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u218	You want to answer that? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, throughout the whole of yesterday and today, as I see, many colleagues who are calling on us to take measures to prevent any expulsion of Greek teams from European championships, at the same time urging us to take measures on issues which are the core of the self-interest in sports federations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u221	We are told by many colleagues that legislative measures on the electoral system which is unacceptable, in the WEU these irregularities are made, one and the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u222	Where did you hear that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u223	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u224	It was reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u225	Don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u226	They urge us to take measures on arbitration, which is part of the core of the self-employed. I don't understand that logic. On the one hand, it urges the government to legislate in violation of the self-interest - recognised by the government and has said that it will never harm it - and, on the other hand, we are told by colleagues themselves that there is a risk of exiting the groups. Finally, I would like to tell everyone that it is important to say things that come to the limits of populism, but to see what legislative initiatives the government has taken and what the conciliation and consultation initiatives are. Therefore, we do not feel that it is safe to take legislative measures on things that we cannot take and on what we can legislate today, to tell us that they are being put under the approval of the international federations. We are, in other words, in a complete and absolute contradiction and it will be good to understand it, because once they recognize the pathogens of sport and Greek football, step by step - to improve them. No, not to say we do not do what we have in front of us, but to do something else that is on a distant horizon and which is difficult with this legal framework to do. In my opinion, this cannot be done. Therefore, Mr President, I say to everyone in good faith that the issues of Greek sport need to be drawn together and an effort - a step literally. That's what we're doing with the bill, and that's what we're going to do with the sports law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u228	Because you've finished earlier, you've got a two-minute rightfully. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I do not want to mislead this House, as the Minister has misled it. I'm doing this because? We, Minister, do not question the articles and agree with you. We tell you something very simple. Where you have added the phrase "internal affairs of the NCA" to erase the word "internal" and put "internal affairs of the NCA"
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u230	I told you we were thinking about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u231	But we'll be voting soon, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u232	We'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u233	What can I vote for? Mr President, that's all, if we solve it, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u234	You tell us something and we'll think about it. We'll bring me legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u235	So you're going to tell us at the time of the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u236	You're telling us something, we're bringing me a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u237	What, in half an hour? It's been voted in an hour. What can I vote for now? When you bring the paper, I'll decide. So, Mr President, let's bring the paper, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u238	Mr Minister, if you have any improvement here, as soon as you can bring it, so that the honourable Members will know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u239	We would cancel the roll-call, Mr President, so that the Members would not come. Why should they be afflicted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Petrako, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u241	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u242	The Minister will precede and then follow you. Madam Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be included in this draft law, the amendment has been tabled with one article and two subparagraphs entitled 'Compensation for staff issues of the Greek Horse Routing and other provisions'. They're absolutely relevant. As you know, on 24 April 2015 a contract for the concession of the online bet was signed between TIPID and OPAP, which will be submitted to Parliament for discussion and approval - I hope - to the end of May, at the beginning of June. Before then and in view of the fact that the company "WIEE S.A.", i.e. the Greek Horse Riding Organization, is being wound up on 15 July of this year, two issues have to be resolved to which the two corresponding subparagraphs refer. The first is to ensure from the point of view of the work of the workers today at “WIEE S.A.” The second relates to the need to ensure physical conditions for the continuation and non-hazardation of the conduct of Greek horse races as laid down in the concession agreement, the obligation for the next twenty years of the concessionaire. What is provided for in the amendment for workers. The permanent officials of the ILO, namely those who have contracts of employment of indefinite duration, as well as those of the one-day employees, have been entitled by the AACC or finality by the courts, or - that is very important - are in relevant judicial procedures, channelled to legal persons of the Sports Secretary of State and whoever is part of bodies of the Ministry of Sports will, as provided for in the relevant amendment, be included in the working relationships with which legal decisions are laid down. As I will tell you then, this provision covers the overwhelming - the vast majority - of those who currently have any employment relationship with "WIPO S.A.". Allow me a very brief parentheses before we talk about numbers. There is no more disgusting working relationship than that of the one-day workers, hired in the morning and made redundant on the same day and again or on a daily basis, as it used to be when Greek racing was going well, or for two, three days at most a week as it is done today. Let us think that there are workers working in this relationship twenty-five years and that, if these workers are to lose their jobs, they have nothing to do with what is the most basic right of every worker made redundant, that is, the right to compensation after decades of work. It's like some of them never worked for most of their working lives. But let us see the numbers behind which living people are behind. As far as we have succeeded in finding out - why we have to tell you that this story with the one-day workers is a story that is very difficult to explore, that is, in relation to the real persons at 100%, from the point of view of payroll lists - all of the workers at the "WIO S.A." are four hundred forty-nine, sixty-two and three hundred eighty-seven employees of every day of all specialties, from track workers to cashiers. Firstly, with the adoption of the bill, immediately after the vote on this amendment, the sixty-two permanent staff to the Secretary-General of Sports leave them, which will make them available to legal persons supervised by the Ministry of Sport. There will also be a direct transfer of the fifty-fifths of employees who have been entitled to the ADP, without having done anything at all this time and the five who have been vindicated, i.e. they have been entitled by the court of appeal, a total of sixty other people immediately after the vote on the bill and once the ODR has provided - which has not been done until now - the relevant documents - even though they have been justified a considerable period of time - and the necessary decisions by the Ministry of Administrative Reform, with a view to having this completed as soon as possible since 15 July 2015, where the ODR is put into liquidation. Secondly, in relation to the remaining three hundred twenty-seven, we estimate that some two hundred of them have appealed to various courts. In the law, as I have already said, there is the prediction that once there is a perfect right for each of them, they will take the same path as the previous ones through the Secretary-General of Sports. The fact is that some sixty workers will be judged to be final at the court of appeal in December. Most other cases, according to the information that I have to say - we have succeeded in gathering, seem to have been dealt with in 2016. And I say - I hope it is not considered by anyone that I am going to go beyond the limits of the executive power that I represent - that there is no reason why they should not be justified too, as all the previous speakers have said. Thirdly, before the signature on 24 April 2015 between TIPID and OPCW of the Web System Concession Contract, the CEO of the OPCW accepted on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance to hire ten employees on the one hand with priority the technical specialities of the track, i.e. those of the track workers, whom it needs on the other hand, with priority workers who have not recourse to the courts, as we have asked them. For our part, we insisted on at least a hundred and fifty such recruitments from the workers of the day until now, which in practice solves the issue for all workers. The debate has come to the conclusion that the OPCW administration has agreed to try to recruit more than one hundred and ten employees. In the second paragraph, it solves the problem of ensuring that there is a sufficient number of horses to ensure that the concessionaire is not released - and it is a condition that is clearly in the contract that, as you know, has been signed in September 2013 - by the obligation to conduct the Greek races, which is the important issue, since this term completely exempts him from his obligation to conduct the Greek races - which are injurious, which is why the'rele of Heridos' - when the horses fall under three hundred. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let us say that at the moment we are on the verge of being on the verge, since five years ago there were seven hundred horses, today there are only thirty-three tired, I would say, horses - because they are running across all the horse races, there is no rest - that is, they are close to the critical number. We believe that what has been a long-standing request from those who are able to buy roads and add them to the horses running on the racetrack will increase the number of horses in sufficient margins so that there is no risk of the permanentity in this case of carrying out the same living Greek horses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u247	Sure. We will allow a question from the Communist Party to the Minister and I will give Mrs Lyberaki the floor. Here, Mr. Gioka, please ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u248	Madam Minister, the information you mentioned regarding the Agency's employees is accurate. There is, however, the major question which we consider to be legally resolved if you accept our amendment or the wording - there is no need to accept the amendment - which we have, what is done with those workers who have not recourse to the courts for any reason, in any case - we cannot blame them for that - there are no positive or negative decisions for them and therefore these workers are in the air. Consequently, there is a system of separation of workers who do the same work, with the same working relationships and depend on whether or not they had relied on the courts. It's solved. If it is accepted that all staff working on overnight contracts will be transferred on the basis of the rules and provisions contained in the amendment. It is critical, however, and you must answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u249	All personnel employed during or...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u250	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u251	It makes sense, as Mr Giokas put it, that this view of Mr Gioka, Minister, is based on the case-law. If you want, see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u253	You will answer to the end whether they are relevant and the issue raised by Mrs Lyberakis. Here you go, Mrs. Liberaki, from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u254	They are indeed relevant, Mr President. We also have one question as to the channelling of workers in this order that you have said, first the sixty-two and then another sixty, etc. to legal persons supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports. You said, Minister, that it would be with the same status of working relations. The question is:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u255	No, I didn't say that. I said they would be channelled through the employment relationships dictated by the judgements of the courts. There are judicial decisions for those who define and the kind of industrial relations, which are not, of course, one day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u256	Good. I don't ask about them. I ask for the indefinite time that the permanent ones will pass through exactly the wage system they have had. We all understand that in special places there are sometimes higher or lower pay characteristics. So taking someone who works in a special body, like the Horse Horse Running Agency, and making him work out for children with special needs in riding, is a different activity. How are you gonna do that? Are they gonna take the bonuses with them? Will it all be lost? We didn't get it. And it would be very useful for this case to be costed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u257	Is there another colleague who wants to ask about this, for reasons of equal treatment? Madam Minister, would you like to answer the questions? As it does not result from the amendment with which they are transferred there, this needs to be explained further. Possibly Mrs Liberaki and Mr Giokas are insisting on clarifying the status they are going with. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u258	I will agree that it is a clear solution that the JRC proposes with its amendment. This is the pure solution, because it solves the existence of one day's workers. Unfortunately, we can't do it now. And I stress the 'now'. So because we cannot do this now, so we have tried to give the closest possible solution, since the overwhelming majority have actually resorted to the courts, which have justified - by restoring them working - all the cases that have taken place there. For the hundreds of twenty-seven workers who have not taken refuge in the courts and have not been covered, you are right again, Mr Gioka, that they are treated with a different status. This is compulsory since the issue is not resolved radically, that is, by adopting that they are going through the first scheme, regardless of anything else. We did everything we could to keep none of them left. This was the meaning of the informal agreement on 110 plus 150 with the OPCW Board of Directors. We would like to be able to resolve the issue in a better way. Now, however, we cannot give another solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u259	The cost won't be great, Mrs. Valavani.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u260	I don't think anyone's going to be out of work. That's very basic. And we started out there. And it will improve the position of the vast majority of some four hundred eighty-eight workers and wages and in terms of working relations. That won't apply to everyone. But there will be improvement. I come to the second point, what Mrs Liberaki said. Within those who may not improve, perhaps worsen by certain parameters, it is that of permanent workers, in the sense that they are part of the wage bill, allowances and working conditions that exist in each of the Ministry's overseeing bodies...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u261	New place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u262	New place. Undersecretary. It is not right to say that it means that someone who is highly skilled loses in relation to someone who has no qualifications - if you meant that - because separation in permanent and one day had nothing to do with the level of qualification. It was completely absurd work behaviour, where a few workers had a normal status, very good wages, etc. And all the others had no right - it was not just a matter of basic wages - even if they were made redundant after twenty - twenty-five years of work, which is tragic. I will tell you very clearly - because I want to be honest - that I have been asked by permanent workers to ensure that compensation which is now higher is not lost. Now there is nothing to prevent them from retiring because of course many have this possibility. There's no obstacle if anyone wants, before they leave the OSH, to apply for retirement. To be honest, however, I have mostly dealt with the one-day workers and not those sixty who had all the rights, not because I think there are penthouses or anything else but why there were three hundred...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u263	Very well you did, or it would be...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u264	You got it. There were workers who would be on the road without any right, if there were no way of giving a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u265	Mrs. Lymmerakis probably implied that if the agency of origin had a higher salary, what would happen if they were transferred to the host organisation. That's what he implied. And he said that the amendment does not solve the problem. I'm content with it. We are moving on to the circle of parliamentary representatives. Mr. Petrakos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the government's decisive attitude brings results everywhere. This confirms once again the well-known phrase that 'the fight that has not been taken'. Only anyone who's fighting has a chance of winning. Yesterday's joint statement by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker confirms this. We do not, of course, have any illusions or delusions. The road is still difficult, climbing, with lots of front - back. We are, however, optimistic that there will be a beneficial agreement for the Greek people, because in addition to others, for the first time, it is emphasised in a joint announcement that the collective negotiating system must be the best European standards and that the main aim of the pension system is to avoid third-age poverty, which is currently at 50% of the pensioners. As I said yesterday and other positive news which, in fact, shows the climate and the successful coverage of the amount of interest rates at the same rate, at the same rate as the previous one, and the increase in the ELA mechanism by 2 billion, is greater than ever before. But we also had other issues yesterday, which are the first news: "In the stool, the sea-lovings of interlocutory", "Forty businessmen and bank managers for the Postal Treasury", which had led to over-contributions between the previous governments and then sold it to Eurobank. In addition, the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Prosecutor's proposal for Mrs Sakellariou is a gift for the malicious act of infidelity. I would say to Mr Stournara, Minister, that I should also like to get to the bill - for the others, for Mr Georgios, for Mr Stournaras, but also for the gentlemen of the SGP, where some of them are accused of setting up a criminal organisation. I think that the Greek people expect some of them to pass through the domestic hoodmen of the international federations, the doors of the courts. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, before I go to the bill, there is something very important, which confirms what I said in introductory terms, that any race given may have hopes that it will be won. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, today, a big issue that had arisen last year under the number one agricultural product, the Greek feta and the European Union - Canada agreement. Today, the news says that the Greek Government is fighting and is prepared to blow up the European Union-Canada agreement on feta. Do you consider this to be a minor issue or an important issue for the Greek economy and the primary sector? We consider it very important and show that we are determined to protect the interests of the Greek people and Greek farmers. Minister, I think it is particularly important that international federations, despite the pressures of the domestic hooded hoodmen, have recognised that the government's aim is to rebuild this dirty circle that exists in the football field and, unfortunately, extends to other group sports, such as basketball, where we have recently had some facts. There have been suffocating pressures from those - I repeat - who have not seen anything about toys in the past, they have not seen the international federations who have acknowledged that the government is right on the substance and that the government is not aiming or interfering with the well-founded self-government - on the well-intentioned self-government! The government is not going to ruin a global situation, which recognises the right and the right. The Greek Government is determined to put the knife on the bone for those who have been to blame for their actions, their omissions and some - and it will prove - for personal enrichment. Not all of this was done innocently or because people did not understand or have a different view from us, which, anyway, deserve to have it. No, that's in no way the cause. "It's a lot of money, Mars," as the late Spyros Kalogerou said in the well-known project. "It's too much money, Mars, in this circuit." I'd say. And I don't mean Mars team.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u267	That's all he was missing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u268	I'm saying this so no Thessalonician can get any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u269	All Mars pays for in Greek football.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u270	Don't interrupt the speaker, Mr. Diamantopoulou. Keep going, Mr. Petrako.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u271	Last, then, we see that there is - and it is important that there is - a positive approach. As much as they try, then, they did not achieve what they wanted. There will be regular judges because there must be one. But, Minister, the knife must come to the bone, because it must also be promoted by the democratisation of sports clubs and justice must be shielded from the interventions of strong business circles. Because in this circuit there are very powerful business circles and many of them made their money not in such a legitimate way and within the Civil Law. And we all know that. The sporting limited companies must be made redundant and subjected, as you quite rightly said, to the Ministry of Development, where a committee is working on this. So the scandals must be investigated in depth. So I think we're on the right track. In this sense, I think he must have a broader consensus...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u272	As to the right path, you are right. As far as time is concerned, you are not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u273	...Mr. Yakumato, because you're a man with healthy football and healthy sport. And you here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u274	Always. Zimbabwe, I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u275	...and your rapporteur, who has left history. So, Minister, if history is about a word, I too think it is of minor importance. Let it be the exact translation, 'in her cases', if the word 'internal' is what they think might cause a problem. Anyway, for reasons of understanding and with your compatriot of the Ionian Islands, I think we can go to a legislative improvement on the term 'in cases' and end the story. This has to end, because the message that must pass - and we must not spoil it, ladies and gentlemen - is that the Hellenic Republic, the Greek State, the Greek Parliament, is determined to exalt this space, reach - I repeat - the knife in the bone, go to justice and pay all those gentlemen who are involved in the body of scandals and illegality all these years and who have filled up - some of them - their pockets. This has to go through, and we mustn't ruin it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Petrako. From the party of Independent Greeks we were told that instead of Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, a parliamentary representative will be and will be bought today by MP Nikolaos Mavraganis. Mr Ioannis Vroutzis Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard the Minister, Mrs Balavani, defend workers in the public sector and put it in the words 'trueness'. I would like to say first of all that I agree. Mrs Valavani is honest with what her party believes, in what her party is trying to do, namely a left-wing government, which is actually moving within an ideological environment with anachronistic principles and values that are not applied anywhere in Europe, in any developed part of the world. And I say this because, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you the same sensitivity shown by your Government for civil servants, to show it for the officials, for the private sector - the forgotten private sector - which you have omitted, for which you have done no more than three and a half months, and which you are constantly letting go and go from evil to worse. I have the feeling - and the feeling has been firmly created - that words such as 'business', 'private', 'production', 'investment' are no unknown words for you, are not hostile words for you. It is words that 'you are getting the hair up'. Stop being honorees and sensitive groups and weak ones, because that is, in essence, the definition of hypocrisy. We do not grant it to you for the unemployed, nor for the low-pensioners, nor for anyone. Because it's good to make it sensitive, but it's good at the same time to produce wealth, so that you can cover the sensitive, weak and vulnerable accusations. You have not answered this question, only show this fake sensitism without on the other hand having the economic impact. And I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because in the extension of yesterday's joint statement, Mr Tsipras, the government seems to have turned into a meteorological service every day and a new intent note. And well, when these intentions are in the direction that we all want, that is to say, understanding, it is good. Every time, however, this is done, the warm - cold - shower, that is, the Greek society accepts every day and the uncertainty, if the intention is good, after a little comes out of an extraordinary tale report by the drachmas and anti-Europeanists of your components. And don't say it's not like that. Yesterday the Prime Minister made the joint announcement and today the websites in the media go out with your MPs and talk about drachma and rupture and that there will be no agreement. Is there a Prime Minister in this country? Can't he collect Ministers, State Secretarys, who are sitting and creating this uncertainty in Greek society? Do you think you are benefiting from the economy, which you have paralyzed and haunted? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And of course, because we have to say things by their name, short psalm of each other, ladies and gentlemen. You know our position. We are close to anything that will support the country. You have a New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which will support the European perspective. But the question is, how much with your conscience are you reassured? How well do you have with your conscience?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u278	Don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u279	Let's make a print. HIS VIA remains. The 12,000 euros, the tax-free, the deception of the Greek people, remain. The extraordinary contribution not only remains, but I hear that you will increase it. And of course, the debt haircut that you would pay out the pension increases is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u280	He's coming in June.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u281	And the thirteenth pension you cheated on the pensioners in the basket of left-hand fairy tales! What's left of it? He lives the famous "Sinai Wall" of Mr. Army, who said that pensions and Mr. Skourletis will not be affected, which he said about industrial relations. And yesterday, through the communiqué, the 'Signal Wall' collapsed. The word 'evaluation' has come in, which is essentially the extension of the fifth evaluation you have prevented from taking place through the violent elections and which you are now doing. At the same time you also opened up the question of labour and insurance matters, which were closed. In fact, you're opening them in a violent way, as in insurance, phrases like "financial sustainability" go into insurance. Can a Minister translate it, Mr President, the word 'financial sustainability'? Because, in a free translation, in terms of pension analysis, it probably also conceals what Mr Varoufakis or Mr Varoufakis deliberately signed on 20 February. The zero deficit clause in the main pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u282	Let's go again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u283	This is therefore an open matter. And we are not far from the moment we see reality in this House. As long as the text comes. And there we will try both our consciences and the truth - each Member - with the world in which he has been elected for election to take his vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the mail of Hardouvelis in relation to the mail of Varoufakis and the ones you will bring to the House, if and if you proceed to an agreement, it will look like oasis. I would remind you that the mail of Hardouvelis had a measure of EUR 980 million. The Varoufakis mail and the agreement you are going to make with the increase in VAT to 17% or 18% - we will see it in practice - with the tax on the Aegean islands, with the abolition of reduced VAT on the Aegean islands - you have targeted the Aegean islands, I do not know why, it is your enemy - you need to know that it brings measures, at least as reflected in the leaks - from there we have the official announcement - of EUR 14 billion. In other words, your proposal is fourteen times more burdensome than the mail Hardouvelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u284	Arithmetic where did you learn?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u285	Ladies and gentlemen, be more careful about your public image, because you have turned the government into a government of unlimited family responsibility. And he wants to pay attention to both the value of parliamentaryism and the value of democracy and our political system. Stop, finally, appointing relatives, friendly faces of your environment. Already New Democracy has given a list of relatives you have appointed. Well, isn't there another world from your private sector or your executives worthy to stand in a position? Do you have to choose your relatives? And this comes in combination with what was done yesterday, namely the appointment of the Secretary-General to the Ministry of Infrastructure of a relative according to the other face of your parliamentary group. And these in combination with the abolition of the "GENERAL" you did yesterday. What I have to say is to rejoice on the left hand of opacity, of the 'logues', of friends and relatives! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u288	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I take the floor to make an announcement. However, on this occasion I would like to turn to the Civic Opposition. We have just heard from the parliamentary representative and honourable Member, Mr Brutsi, that the government has become a government with unlimited family responsibility. Mr. Brutsi, you have become a party with limited responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u290	All right, now! That's old-time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u291	Because you do not understand that the negotiation goes ahead and that the renegotiation made by the Government of social salvation bears fruit. And you are even more disturbed by the fact that you were the principal minister in the previous government, and you have been involved in the joint statement by the Prime Minister and Mr Juncker on matters of your competence, which you have been telling us for two and a half years that there is a one-way road.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u292	And what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u293	So you realise that the other way that starts to open up both for the insurance system and for the workers and for society is a great problem for you. And we understand today why you are coming to the National Representation and you are talking about all this completely vaguely and you are making suggestions to the Government and the Government Party. So we tell you to adapt to reality, because the agreement will be made and it will be proved by the agreement that there was neither a one-way nor what you, Mrs Vulge, have told us, for two and a half years and an election, such as that Greece will fall on the rocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u294	Don't take an oath!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u295	We have understood very well since yesterday that you have a serious problem with this procedure, because every proposal that comes in and every agreement - individual or general - is a nail to the coffin of your policy! And you cannot accept that. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u296	What deal? Is there a deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u297	Apart from the New Democracy, there is a reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u298	Is there a deal here? Is he here? I don't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u299	If there's no deal...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u300	That's what we're talking Has there been a joint statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u301	That's what we're talking
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u302	I've had a drink, gentlemen, please! Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, the proposal made by the honourable Member, Mr Yakoumatos and also by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Petrakos, as I said yesterday, is an expression which does not differentiate one another from another. It's the same thing. That is precisely because I said it and it was included in the Minutes as an interpretative statement about what we proposed, we will incorporate it with a legislative improvement so that there is no shadow. And I will mention in detail my speech, because I tell you that the government neither seeks nor supervises the self-employed of any federation, ladies and gentlemen. No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u304	We agree! Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u305	The federations must be self-government, but no one in Greece is above the principle of popular sovereignty, control of Parliament, Constitution and laws. And they'll all understand that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Yakumato, we'll see how it works. Minister, bring us in. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Artemios Matthaopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, I have chosen today to speak from boobs and from a position to have the ministers of a government, which - as the situation shows - is gradually moving towards a large communiqué, a government which - let me say it - strongly betrays the interests and expectations of the Greek people, as expressed in the last elections of 25 January. I would remind you that the vote of the Greeks with which SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks are today in the government was clearly an antimony character and therefore the immediate break with the Memorandum and the lenders. On the one hand, I am taking the floor to show the Prime Minister's hypocrisy on the memorandum, on the other hand, to remind him of the constant views of the Golden Dawn, on the issue of the Memorandum, as we have been aware, Mr President, over the last five years. At this point I would like to read you a joint letter, a communication that you have issued - as you are calling them - the institutions and to comment on its content, but also to decode its message, so that we can understand what is going to happen on 11 May in the upcoming Eurogroup. According to this statement "the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, share the same goal of helping Greece achieve fiscal stability and growth and continue to work closely towards achieving this objective. Finally, the three institutions are working hard to make tangible progress on 11 May." Before I develop the content of this communication, we should do a mere mathematical act. The institutions, i.e. the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, are three figures, both before and after, you and the Greek people called them Troika. But today we see that the communication game has changed, SYRIZA has imposed another language so that the troika is called the institutions, the Memorandum programme is called a programme and so on, the Troika and the IMF are called the Brussels group. But the essence remains the same: with these institutions, the Greek side - as you say - comes to a rapid agreement on the red lines. From there on, what it means to help Greece and to make progress, I believe that no comment can fit in so as to show the size of hypocrisy. I would remind you that the institutions were saying the same at the time when the previous memos were signed. In the name of the development of the Greek economy, Memorandum 1 and Memorandum 2 were signed. But it seems - if you want to come to the essence of this communication - the first time left will become synonymous with the first signature of the memorandum by the Prime Minister. Memorandum 3 will be signed by Mr Tsipras, because now the institutions are telling us that we will have an agreement at Eurogroup on 11 May. One might say that's a lie. I would say to you that this announcement was issued after the Prime Minister's telephone conversation with the Commissioner of the Commission, Mr Junker, where in the telephone conversation the two men spoke saying that the red lines should be maintained. What are the red lines? The insurance and the work. There are no red lines, that is to say, national issues. There are no red lines to the other major issues facing our country. Red line for the government, remains the job and the insurance. The same was said by another Prime Minister, who, for his own stand, betrayal attitude to the Memorandum, from government, became a Civic Opposition. And if you don't believe me, listen to the voices of your own colleagues who say that "if SYRIZA proceeds to such clear cyberneticism, then the Golden Dawn will come." That is why I repeat what our party's views and positions are on the question of dealing with the memorandum. Because, it seems, Mr President, you have no intention at all, not even a break, to come with the lenders, but to agree with them. "Because Mr. Juncker," as Mr. Samaras said, "is the best friend of Greece". And we remember five years how both the European Union and the institutions acted. The Golden Dawn at this point reiterates that public debt must be controlled, audited, in order to declare all or part of that debt as burdensome. We believe that the debt or part of the debt, anyway, has been concluded in terms of tachographs. This has not been discussed with the institutions, nor with the Greek Parliament. Let me remind you that when the Golden Dawn was talking about these issues, some accused us of jeopardizing, that we too want to throw the country on the rocks. We also insist and confirm, saying that a break with the memorandum will not be the destruction of Greece, but it may be the destruction of the entire European economy. Here is a business weapon in our patronage, so that we can use it to finally get rid of the memorial greatness that has impoverished most of the Greek people. From there on, our positions, as many times as have been expressed, each time they are treated with the same cynicity. You say, for your part, that with your own handling things will come to a better deal. A deal not to hurt the red lines. Agreement on an achievement. A deal for a better evaluation. Agreement on a Memorandum 3 in other terms. The substance remains the same. Nothing changes for the better as far as our country's economy is concerned. In any case, because Mr Kontonis said that most of all it is the people's sovereignty, the House and the Constitution, I would remind him that the House a few weeks ago, Mr Kontonis, discussed and voted for the Committee of Inquiry on the subject of the Memorandum. I had spoken on that day and I had identified the following problem for your Government: Entry into the Memorandum of Understanding, if we exceed the date you proposed, namely February, will include your own government, when you are invited to sign a new memorandum. And that is where everything shows that SYRIZA will enter into the gathering and agreement of a Memorandum 3. So, when Parliament legislates, it should provide that some things have already been decided and that others decide for us and we are simply handling their orders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to make it clear, Mr President, that for us the memorandum is a red line, and we should absolutely have our country come to what the Greek people did through their vote: to come to a immediate break with the lenders so that our country can finally get back to economic activity. On other issues, as far as this draft is concerned, I will make a very brief comment. I think our Special Buyer's placement was essential, it was accurate. I would say that since today - as long as the information I have is correct - UEFA sends letters, showing some serious issues in relation to the bill, it means that if other factors decide or give you the route you are going to take, it is a big problem. Since there is no room for our own policy, what is the reason to discuss such a bill today? I would remind you and I would remind you that by today's letter from UEFA, it is said that by this bill, if it is finally passed, the National Team and the Greek clubs will be excluded from Europe, what some called Grexit in sport. I close with a brief comment, of course repeating our position on the bill, that we are voting against the reasons we have analysed, as our previous speaker said. One thing I will say about education, since two articles in the bill deal with education, and tomorrow we will be called in urgent procedure to discuss a new bill. I would say that the famous abolition of experimental high school is a definite act of isotopic. The area of education is already getting sick. The problems we are facing are known to all of us, all of whom are in contact with the subject. But in any case, we cannot, by such methods, with such practices, with so much violence in time, solve problems of decades which we are now being called upon to solve. I conclude by reminding you that for this bill we are voting against and repeating for the major one that is the Memorandum on 11 May that will be achieved, that for the Golden Dawn the vote of the Greek people who supported it, that is, over half a million Greeks, will not be betrayed if we are called not deserveful Opposition, but power.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. Mrs Liberaki, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Liberaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u309	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as well as with this opportunity of putting the parliamentary representatives in place, there has been a lot of talk about the negotiation, and I would like to say that we in the Potami are very pleased that the Scottish shower begins to correct its thermostat and produce more body and human-friendly temperatures. We are really pleased to see a prospect of a more tangible solution. We will sincerely celebrate when it is done, because we need it very much and because we have already been delayed. The delay means that there was uncertainty and in the end uncertainty is translated into a recession, which has so far cost us the corresponding estimated two hundred to fifty jobs. This is the conversion of GDP points into employment, and I would like us to take this into account, not so much to criticise one another and - I think that is really the last thing that concerns society - but to understand that after the happy end of the agreement, the conclusion, we all have to do our job very well. We must do our job very well, and we MPs, men and women must work much more intensively and essentially as well as teachers, teachers at all levels, must do better, and students and students, students and students and everyone where they are. I say this because neither we do our job very well, when we discuss a very serious issue - and indeed a bill, which we have the pleasure of having voted in favour of in principle - nor do we do good in education, when within such a bill we put three arrangements on education and vote on it today, when it comes with urgency and within a few hours - ten, if I am not mistaken - we will make big decisions on the matter of middle education. I understand that it sounds a little unreasonable when we talk about violence in sport, someone talking about the bank, but I will do so for two reasons. Firstly, because these changes are important, and secondly, because I want you to understand that it is equally unreasonable to bring such issues into a bill on violence within the courts. So I will talk about the subject bank, about the basis of '9.5' and about the possibility of an extension of a school year. The topic bank may have worked well or badly, may have had problems. But he's going to answer a problem. The problem is that they need different categories - difficult issues. If the topics are systematically easy, the best and best students and students are wronged. If it's systematicly hard, you fly out of the others. So it takes a rated tank so that the teacher can know that he will have a difficult proportion, a less difficult one and an easier percentage of issues, in the logic and the creation of opportunities, but also in the evaluation of the real possibility of children. The theme bank - with changes, of course - could act as such a repository for sorting issues. Getting out completely leaves a huge field open, and I won't talk about arbitraryness, because I'm a teacher too, and I really understand how hard it is to judge a teacher that he's dissatisfied. It does, however, - if you want to say otherwise - the motives for the minor effort. It motivates the teacher to put more easily on the agenda, because every day he faces one class and because - bad lies, I don't know if you remember, ladies and gentlemen - learning is a painful process. There's the best and the worst, there's the unbearable and the tolerable, but no one can easily learn. It is something that one suffers to do. That's no reason not to. In the day-to-day crisis, then, the teacher or teacher is easier to deal with and to put easier topics and to cover less material and score with greater courtesy. It does not do well for a long time to go to anyone, and I think we should think about this dimension. So, whatever changes we bring to education - and especially to the middle of education, which is more important in my opinion than the grade I serve - we need to take it on the basis of how we will be better and better for teachers and students. As regards the basis of "9,5" it has been observed that in every class, wherever this class is, at whatever grade, there is a percentage of people moving close to the base. They are the people who do not have the ambition at that particular stage of their lives to go ahead - they have other things that are most interested in them - and make the least regular effort to stay close to the base. Because there will always be this, and it has nothing to do with either the right or the left, neither with progress, nor with maintenance, nor globalisation, nor with nothing, while you lower the base, you go down with the elevator this charge. I'm not telling you to take the base to '18' so they're also excellent, but before we start downloading the base, to think of whose interests we serve and whose interests we do not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u310	The Minister's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u311	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u312	Carry on, Mrs. Liberty. The Minister is on his way. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Here, the Minister is here. Carry on, Mrs. Liberty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u313	I just wanted to make a small comment, because there was a very elegant thought expressed, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the replacement of the hours and days that are gone. The combination of not being able to extend the school year, of going down the base for promotion in the next class, and of the abolition of a thorny subject table, all together give a signal. And to tell you more folk, as it sounds and is being written lately, the signal is: "Come on, it's okay. Here the world is gone, let's push it." I believe very much in the second, third, and hundreds of opportunities. It's not like I want barriers to children's education. But I want us to understand very well that every move we can make with the intention of facilitating and pushing some people to the next level, we must do so in a way that really strengthens them. Do not make them dependent on the good mood or low quality standards of the system. In my opinion, the non-extension of the school year is an entirely 'attractive' and a trade union demand for adoption. Anyone who doesn't teach will have to know that the 15-year-old has to do it. I don't care when he does. Unless we don't think there's a need for a lesson. In this case, however, we must justify why we have schools. I would therefore very much like there to be no training issues in this bill, which - I repeat - we have very much voted in favour of it at first. I would very much like, even if there were changes, not to be in the direction of minor effort and the discount of criteria. I've been a teacher for twenty-five years. I'm fifty-six years old and twenty-five years old I've been doing this job. I want to tell you that the more you download the specifications, the more patronages and eventually you don't create relationships with the weakest students and students. I would, therefore, like, even if scriptures on education had to be in the spirit of the great effort that we all have to do from now on and for a long time, so that our place could move in. We in the river will help in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Liberaki. Ladies and gentlemen, the increased authority of the Greek Parliament and its upgraded role are increasing among younger citizens in our country. So I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-eight students and students and six educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Perthimno and from the private Municipal School "Axion" Xanthi. The House welcomes them. We wish you health and every good. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have told you yesterday - and I am addressing the government's benches - that you leave the big ones. And today, again, the Parliamentary spokesman went up to Step and spoke as if nothing had happened since yesterday. But he didn't talk about the truck. He didn't talk about the substance. In other words, he has not talked about the apparent result of the negotiation that, as all things show, this new agreement will mean a new memorandum containing, of course, tax measures, a uniform VAT rate, which will mean certain kinds of first need, basic need for the people and the people's family. He did not say that it includes new taxation on so-called 'high income', these exceptional contributions that will remain as from previous governments and will further cut people's income. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] He did not talk about the fact that the ENVY will remain in 2015 and we see if 2016 will allow economic sizes to change. He did not talk about pension and insurance, what was a'red' line and which is not going to be bothered because we legislate here', as the government said before. He did not say that he would increase the retirement threshold, in sixty-two years for all compulsory - that is, early retirement - and, anyway, we would 'build a pension that he is facing' says 'the problem of poverty and impoverishment for older ages'. So, that's what pensions were for? So the other guy who's gonna be hunger-free doesn't die? Then why would they make contributions? But this logic was the logic of Loverd, for example, by the law he had put in, that the state guarantees what? The lower guaranteed pension to protect older people from the problems of impoverishment and poverty. So that's what you want to get ready for? And so many years when the workers and the self-employed gave contributions? What? Were they thrown in the basket, in the cockroach? In this pool, which has financed all over the past few decades the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. And that's what you're not talking about. You are not talking about the reserves for the insurance funds that have been put into the hands of monopolies. You are not talking about the insurance fund reserves that have been tired. You are not talking about the reserves of the insurance funds that were deposited with the Bank of Greece at zero rates, when inflation in Greece runs at 25% and 30%. And today you say that the only thing that the pension, the new pension, the left-government pension is to protect the world from impoverishment - what the previous governments have said - and that is in the name of sustainability. Previous governments in the name of sustainability have also taken measures to reduce pensions, to increase pension limits, to cut benefits. So you, in the name of sustainability, will proceed to new reinsurance measures. Same for work. It has nothing to do with the reintroduction of collective agreements and minimum wages. It is our internal issue. Yet the bill prepared by the Minister of the Interior is thrown into the basket of unusables. They remain all the Memorandum of Understanding which they have voted for and which concerns the labour market and you say that you will look at the work on the basis of the best European practices, having ILO as a colloquium and advisor, namely the International Labour Office, which knows very well what is going on, as I said yesterday, in Great Britain for zero-time contracts - not one day, zero-time - which have been multiplied. Great Britain is outside the Eurozone, has no memorandum, no troika, no high state debt. But the United Kingdom, like Germany, which 30% of German workers are in temporary employment and are paid at EUR 350, one thing they want: to shield the competitiveness of business groups and profitability. And you are adapting the new measures for working in this very direction, namely how there will be competitiveness in the economy and thus how the profitability of business groups will be shielded. So, here's where these red lines, you've been talking about all the time, they faded too fast. It's not even pink anymore! Not even pink are these red lines! And you say "Leave the lionisms, because the prosecutor will intervene and we've already sent many cases to the prosecutors". That's what the previous ones did. They sent cases to the prosecutors too. And you can't even catch someone, some big fish going to jail and paying, Chohatzopoulou style in political money. Now it could be a big businessman. We don't exclude it as a JRC. We are of course saying that this should be done, but it cannot be the pretext for the people to accept the'slaying' measures in their employment and insurance rights, to accept the new memorandum you are preparing to bring. We reminded you when you were still in the Opposition. All this debate on corruption has historical examples. You're not the first. You have the great historical example of Italy in the late 1980s, where the prosecutor went there to clean up the conflict between the mafia of Italy, the Kamora and Koza Nostra, with political money. And what was the result? Of course, the political scene in Italy was reconstructed, the hammers left, the existence of the historic Communist Party of Italy ceased, and the result was for Berlusconi to come out and dominate for twenty years. And not only should Berlusconi dominate for a 20-year period but black political money continue to exist and the mafia determine important aspects of Italy's economic and political life. So a hole in the water happened. From this point of view, therefore, we say it clearly: you must be much more counted on what you are doing, because by your actions you will become honorers of the Golden Dawn. It is a challenge that the government has formally taken part in the National Foreign Policy Council. Of course, we as a JRC will participate, but it is challenged by the government itself to question the crime of the Golden Dawn and invite it to the National Foreign Policy Council. We told you, Minister, and yesterday that you took some insufficient steps to address the issue of football violence and the symphony of football and sport with economic interests. We have told you that you must strike this Lernay Hydra, but even any fragmentary steps you take, we will support them. We have asked you not to give up on the pressures for both Article 5 and Article 15 and bring it the way it was in committee. You retreat. But the pressures continued. And they continued by those who say 'international actors'. Who are, in fact, these international factors, said by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative that they recognised the problem? So who did we do in honors? Those who are the scandals of the NGO are faults in the face of what they do. That is, in the face of UEFA and FIFA's scandals, the ETUC scandals are defects, Mr. Petrako. They are defects, not because the NCA is better but because UEFA and FIFA have a much larger market and economic interests are much larger. You put these honorers, who will bring the clearance to Greek football, UEFA and FIFA, because they legislate as it goes. So you are making them honorers, and those who will face violence in Greek football. You are forgetting the other examples of the violence that is taking place in European and international football, because there are exactly what we have said before. We say this clearly and we tell you, Minister, and now that we have made the withdrawal, because we know that every conflict can also lead to compromise, but what you are doing is not a compromise, it is a naughty retreat. We tell you to maintain Article 15, as you have it now and we will vote for it, although the rest, the New Democracy, the Annells and a number of others are not voting on it. We will support you in Article 15. Do not make the legislative improvement by removing the two words 'internal affairs', although it does not satisfy us. However, do not go, as the parliamentary representative proposed to you to bring the legislative improvement, to remove these two words. Do not do so, because then it will appear that you agree with the New Democracy, the Independent Greeks and you will vote together as UEFA and FIFA say. That's what you're gonna do, Minister, and we're telling you, don't do it, because leave the substance and see the guy. That's what's gonna happen next. And we tell you even now, don't take this step. We shall vote as a JRC in Article 15, but if you do so, Minister, we are quite clear that we are not going to vote. We are not even going to vote. We will vote against, because that is exactly why you are giving completely different signalling. From this point of view - I shall end with this, Madam President, and forgive me for the delay - it will prove very quickly that what you said 'the first time left', you have not explained to us whether it is going left or left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u316	I would like a minute of the speech on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u317	I don't judge there's any staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u318	When he tells us a criminal organization, and I'm only here, I want the floor for a personal answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u319	Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis, Parliamentary Representative of the ANELs, has been speaking for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that some in this Chamber are looking forward, not for the reasons the people are unpopular, but for them to see what the outcome of the negotiations will be and in a bill on sport, they have been talking about this for a long time. They dedicate 90% of their word to that and 10% to the bill at issue. They look forward in particular to their political existence and their adversarial conclusion, which will be drawn in the event of a successful outcome of the negotiations on the incomplete fighting they have shown in previous years. It is clear that the message and command given to this national government was to change the policy mix, in the direction of man and the country's productive reconstruction. It's obvious that people and society couldn't take any more. And it is clear that none of us were obsessed with labels from the Memorandum, but with this policy and substance of the matter that was just behind the label. We were obliged to change this policy, and with this mandate I think that the financial staff and not just the national government will do their duty and that the results will be obtained. A critical element in the conclusion of the positive or negative sign of any agreement will clearly constitute the country's margin of productive reconstruction and the provision and redirection of humanity policy. We're going through the bill now. In this context and, of course, in particular, in the context of the fact that some external forums are trying to divert the country's internal political, social and economic issues, there is, and is being resolved or trying to resolve it with this bill and this challenge. As far as UEFA and FIFA are concerned, they obviously have jurisdiction over this sport, but also respecting the national sovereignty of the country, any country, whether it is either Greece or Italy or any other. Clearly, two hundred and five countries have signed a number of principles of the organization of the football sport, and we must clearly take this into account and make some adjustments, but not to the point where the national sovereignty of the country is affected, the principle of popular sovereignty and, of course, the distinction of powers. With this reasoning, we can only recognise the positive direction towards the principle of this legislation. Because it is obvious that the problem in Greek society has not created itself, it has not been created by heaven, but some within the country for many years have bleeding society, its economic and political resources. One of the vehicles they used was sport. And from where sport by definition had to train and tend to balance every human being, circuits, cells, lawlessness and exploitation of society and its drift towards one or the other by creating armies - you know it very well - through the various clubs or clubs of fans, which, at least in terms of leadership, were at least unadulterated, but, above all, pretextably, the "interest" of sports clubs, were being treated by their presidents for the benefit of business rather than sports interests. It is therefore a clear project, to the extent that the Greek state has decided under the administration of this national government, to set a order and give a different sign, and regulation in another direction of sport and, in particular, of professional sport, where there are major problems. With these data, the arrangements for the issue of violence by identifying, e- ticket and fan clubs are absolutely on the right track. In fact, if the Greek state and the Minister did not carry out and take this legislative initiative, then this deficit could be a good thing. It is obvious that some of us deep in their consciences believe that even these interventions by FIFA and UEFA violate in many of these principles, which I mentioned earlier. Minister, I fully understand the pressure you take as a human being and I will tell you that I am with you 100%. On the other hand, I see a political momentum in which the Greek Government is trying to achieve a great purpose. You know very well that the interests we are fighting at the moment, outside and inside, have as part of them, clearly some clubs and part of these clubs are the ones you are concerned with. You can understand, therefore, that any manoeuvre must, even at this stage, be a manoeuvre which, if we do so, we will do so for the sake of diplomacy. And I stop there in this respect. As far as Article 5 is concerned, I wanted to make a special reference. There is a clear view that the Minister should give back to this legislation and, in any case, that the legislative initiative should be adapted to UEFA's wishes, if they are. In any case, there is a document, we have all seen it, we do not know exactly when it was sent or when it came to our hands and we do not know the exact translation. But it is not possible, at the limits of the Greek territory and at the level of action of the legislative and executive authority, but also of the judiciary, and in the light of the principle of the natural judge, which, in this very case, is still being established, another forum for the European or international solidity to intervene, destroying these principles. I do not think that Article 5 should be retreat at all, and it is a matter of merit and principle. In Article 15, yes, an adjustment must be made for the reasons I said before. But Article 5 is an correct article. We certainly understand that the injustices of the past want to be covered, they want to manage in a way favourable to these centres, whether they are internally or abroad. Of course, in order to achieve this, they must have a self-regulatory judicial authority in this direction, which will harm the problems and will not solve them. So if, gentlemen, all of us in this Chamber have something negative to say, for example, about betting, which has broken up teams, but also atomic sports and has actually made them a circuit and a trick to make money for some 'objectors', club presidents, who have nothing to do with sport and their social problems, then Article 5 should not go back. Only one word on education, since tomorrow, specialists and all day long we will deal with it. There is a lot of talk about reducing the average in points to '9.5'. It is clear that some had not been informed that in the previous years the '8' was in force for most of the courses except for two. In addition, some had not been informed that there was a case and that oral scores were taken into account on the average. So there is clearly a call to be tightened up here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u321	Please, ladies and gentlemen, on the right, mountain benches - as I see them - can you not make such a fuss? Mr. Yakumato, you're in charge there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u322	Of course, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u323	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u324	Can you say anything about the speaker's time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u325	Yeah. That's what I'd say. Mr. Mavraani, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u326	Yes, sir. I'll be done in a minute. Therefore, this legislation is in the right direction. Because it does not cause excessive relief in the duties of pupils on the one hand, but on the other hand takes into account the particular circumstances currently experienced by society and the difficulty with which the parent, in relation to education, is able to cope with his own child. In these words, I think we are pointing out that we are voting in favour of the draft legislation at issue, with a reservation for a legislative improvement in Article 15 and we congratulate the Minister for the initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Mavraani. The parliamentary representative of PASOK Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor for eight minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] And I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be quiet again. Mr. Stylianides, a little more quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u328	Here, Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor. You can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Madam President. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what is going on? We voted first of all on a bill against violence in sport with a large parliamentary majority. This shows that there is a consensus of this House and of the political forces on an initiative by the Government to deal with violence, which has the characteristics that we all know. That is why we support the initiative of the Minister who, despite his pirates, has included in the bill some of the provisions on which we were placed in detail yesterday and Mrs Christophilopoulos and we have judged their positive nature as well and have kept reservations. We will see to the end its wording to determine our vote. For we are waiting for some legislative improvements - as Mr Petrakos has called on him - to do. Now look at what's going on. This bill is not offered for an anti-immemorial war, i.e. for SYRIZA's inner-party conflict in view of developments. Only Mr. Petrakos saw the battle against interests. What interests? We have a system that runs the game in football and that's what's going to keep going. And the state makes an effort to put order, as did the neoliberals in England on Thatcher. I told you yesterday. Well, although it's not offered for this bill and ahead of developments, there's been a once-in-a-lifetime attempt. Why, ladies and gentlemen, today is Wednesday and - as I said yesterday - we are starting from Monday to Monday with a war climate, the well-known non paper of Maximus for the reason why we cannot come to an agreement because the institutions disagree...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Kutsuko, please stop. Mr. Micholiannakis, please very much. It can't be done. A little slower, please. Anyone who wants to can come out and talk. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u331	So we started with a war paper that said self-evidently, that the institutions, i.e. the IMF, the European Commission and the European Central Bank, have divergent views on many points - we knew about it, the world has it, and you secret pride, I would say, according to a popular proverb - to get to the joint communiqué Tsipras - Junker which marks an agreement. And I said yesterday, taking the floor for a brief speech, that it is good to have this agreement, and we will be placed on the substance when and when it comes. Because I hear various SYRIZA Members writing in the various media that no agreement is forthcoming. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, are the measures included in this agreement, as they are contained in the joint communiqué, and are we learnt in detail from various press reports? Is it an antimonetary policy for HNVO to make an exceptional contribution, to have a uniform VAT rate? Do you know what a single VAT rate means? In order to have the same financial effect some rates will go up and some will come down. We'll see who's going up and who's coming down. Is it an antimony policy to retax to the luxurious IX more than 2,000 cubic, which you've been telling us about? Is it an antimonetary policy to address the issue of early retirement? Is it an antimony policy the residence tax, the tax on restaurants and clubs? Is it an antimonetary policy to put an increase in the luxury tax on the islands? Did you really ask Mr. Kammenos about the free zone on the islands? Is it an antimony policy plastic money, privatisation? No, they are measures that the country may need, because from the time that elections were opened, the budget gap has been raised so far, and I remind you that our disagreement with the Troika - institutions are now being said - was for 2.5 billion and you will now bring measures from 4.5 to 6 billion. We'll appreciate it and you'll tell us how much it is. These, ladies and gentlemen, do not form the core of a progressive policy for which you have been mandated by the people, much more so when a preservative of the SYRIZA institutional interventions appears. Okay, in economics there are jobs, there are limitations, in the institutional part of your policy, what prevents you? In other words, this cursor here in Parliament with the amendments, with the legislative acts, is a progressive policy? This family rule, which I did not understand why he undertook to defend earlier Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u332	What about me? I'm a poacher.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Contonis is a folk man from Zakynthos. I don't know if his family was at Libro d'Oro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u334	No, I'm a poacher.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u335	I don't understand why he defends family rule. At least do you do an internal evaluation within SYRIZA? Only women and directors' contracts are the best to serve public positions? None of these, ladies and gentlemen, is a progressive policy. Obviously, we will expect the cycle of economic uncertainty to be closed, because our country has now paid a leak of 36 billion deposits, it has paid with an increase in unemployment and a rise in recession. We will wait for this vicious circle to be closed and we will be placed on the substance, not plundering and provoking, because we believe that the interests of the country are to have an agreement which, as we said on 25 January, is better than the one we are negotiating with our own red lines, which are very clear. I will refer you to the PASOK announcements, to see if you have complied with them, because I fear that on certain issues because of the failure of the negotiation you have opened secondary issues and on the back door you are putting the sovereigns, for example on pensions. I'm coming to the bill. We have an opportunity today, ladies and gentlemen, to have a consensus, a consensus. We shall be waiting for the final wording of the Minister's words, so that we can determine our vote as well. However, as we have told you, we are the ones who believe that yes, the state must intervene in order to bring order into this tough competition of the great interests that have invested in professional sport and poison society and transmit the violence where healthy competition exists, in amateur football, in amateur clubs and cultivate standards that are symbolically condemned as a political system, as a parliament, and to make the relevant decisions on the punishments and institutional changes that are necessary and the controls to be carried out. I told you a few examples yesterday of what the Ministry of Finance can do, what the Ministry of Development can do, how these checks are linked to the n. 2190, negative equity, black money trafficking. Come on, move on, we're here, and we'll support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u337	It's 14:30 an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u338	I don't understand, Mr. Yakumato?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u339	I'm looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u340	I know, I'm watching her right now. It is, in fact, 14.35 ́.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u341	You said about 14:00 and it's 14:30. What exactly didn't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u342	We will give the floor for two minutes to those of the rapporteurs who want to make an intervention. Mr Petrakos has also asked for the floor for tritology. Mr. Petrakos, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u343	I will also speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u344	All right, will Mr Petrakos begin and I would ask those rapporteurs who want to speak to the Bureau. Mr. Petrakos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really going very much and it is challenging that the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and former Minister for Labour comes here and shed tears on the bad situation in which the private sector has arrived. Firstly, does the former Minister not know that with his and his predecessors the policies of the Memorandum Ministers have created a million additional unemployed in the private sector? He knows that, of course. But it hides it from the House. Secondly, does he not know that thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises have been closed and people have been made redundant? That was their private sector policy. Does SYRIZA not know the research itself on 20-10-2014 - does SYRIZA not dominate there - which says that the memorials have dismantled labour relations, that part-time and rotating work dominate the labour market, that since 2009 rotation has increased by 73% and that total deregulation of labour relations is present? He does not recall, in fact, that he had agreed on a new labour code in which a new job model would be established and to which temporary employment companies, etc. will have a dominant position.Huh? Firstly, for us, as the government representative has stressed today, our red lines remain in both labour and insurance. We're not going to take a step back. Secondly, I will say the following for Mr Karathanasopoulos. The Greek Government legislates and will legislate in sport. No one else legislates. The House is legislating. Thirdly, because there have also been many tears that SYRIZA is in favour of the minor effort with the abolition of the Bank, I would like to remind colleagues - and I also put a roll-call vote - who disagree with this last year: they do not remember - we had denounced it here in this House with a timely question - that a private school had been written that they wrote Mathematics and wrote Religiously to take matters and solve them? They don't know the scandals that had arisen? They don't know that the Topic Bank was a haircut machine to deceive the high school of students? They really don't know what the role of the Bank is? Do they ignore what we know as teachers in public school, that the teacher and teacher, apart from mathematician, physicist or philosopher, are also a psychologist, are they aware of every child and that his role must also be upgraded? But their logic is in favour of aristocratic education. But aristocratic education has been closed for many years. We are in favour of the single public 12-year-old school for all students, so that they can really promote and not bank issues that are intended to deceive high school from students.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr. Petrakos. From the rapporteurs, Mrs Dritelli and Mr Koukodemos do not want to make use of the right of intervention. Mr. Gregos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Madam President. I do not know when the legislative improvements will come and what is going on in connection with UEFA, FIFA and government communication. I appreciate - and according to information - that there is still a risk of group punishment and that the National Group is still in danger. In any case, we will once again say that the bill could come more comprehensive and clearer, since the championships end in a few days. And because we are talking about violence, I would like to say that we are one of those who have repeatedly been victims of violence. We have received hundreds of murderous attacks and with wounded and dead. Of course no channel showed such an attack and never have you ever seen photos of Golden Dawn members who have broken their hands with a hammer and have never seen photographs of wounded members of the Golden Dawn. Let us say again that we, the Members of the Golden Dawn, are targets and terrorists and all kinds of criminals. There's a reason I'm telling you that. I would like to make a request from Parliament's Step to the fans of all the groups - since we are talking about this bill - and to tell them that the groups are not above all. Above all, it's home. Above all, human life is. It'll be good for every fan of a team when he lifts his hand to throw a stone in mind that he doesn't know what damage this movement can cause. We shall then be put to the vote and the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Grego.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u349	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u350	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u351	Madam President, I would like to read and table a legislative improvement, which reads as follows: 'Those of football and the organization and operation of the football federation are regulated by the Greek Football Federation (E.P.O.), in the context of its self-government function in accordance with its statutes and regulations, which must be in line with the Constitution, the existing legislation - given that the NCA is managing its affairs, regardless of and without third-party influence - and in accordance with the regulations of the World and European Football Federation, which is a member of the SGU'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u353	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u354	Here, Mr Mavrotas, you have the floor to make an intervention for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u355	Madam President, I will need less time than two minutes. Now the latest legislative improvements are here. I think we won't have any more until the vote, will we, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u357	I would like to say - and allow me to predict - that in three months' time, Minister, the championships will actually begin to begin, and the procedures will have to be speeded up in order to get the various supervisory instruments that we have in Article 2 in place, or to start the procedures now, namely, how to make it possible to do so within three months, which may also cause some ministerial decisions later, to go a little later. But we can't let this thing go through with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, the second came - on the basis of the legislative improvements - and the government's strongest retreat. You know very well that we have come from the outset to the debate of the bill in good faith and with a attitude of principle undeniable, as we always do, and we said that despite the fact that the bill is not sufficient, despite the fact that the bill does not touch the causes of the problem, we would vote on a number of measures, such as Article 5 for judges and Article 15 for the self-employed. And what happened? From the Morphics Committee so far these have changed radically, with the result that Article 5 on regular judges - we have said so since yesterday - should not be able to vote, and Article 15 yesterday we said that we would vote on it because it is better than what was in place and, above all, so as not to give the alibi to remain the current status quo, seeing also that the other parties and the government's government's partners - one party - had other thoughts and other priorities. But we have made a condition: this Article 15 does not change any further. And it's changed! And it changed with this specific legislative improvement. It is not a matter of meanings of one or another interpretation. Madam President, it is clear that UEFA is legislating. Let Mr Petrakos - who is as if he landed from space - take a look at how Article 15 started and how he ended up and what was UEFA's proposal. It's exactly the same wording, Mr. Petrako. Where did you get out of space? The same wording is. This picture shows that UEFA is legislating. And it is not a symbolism, Madam President. It is a matter of substance, because if tomorrow, questions of interpretation and conflicting views arise, we will be overthrown and see that ultimately the version that prevailed was the version of UEFA. The government found itself in a dilemma: it had to either insist on what it said at the outset - and we would support it - or back off, legislate with the New Democracy and the Independent Greeks and based on the directions of UEFA. Prefer the second way. Despite our support, it takes full responsibility for this choice. We predict that these are images of the future for the great negotiation. So everyone has to take responsibility. Our position was a given, principle position. From that point on, everyone makes their own choices. It is true that our position in Article 15 is now a vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Mr. Haikalis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Madam President. Finally, there was a fuss about a substantial problem, which was only in one phrase, after we accepted the Minister's refusal, told us that this change would not take place. Finally, this change took place. The big problem exists in Article 5, which is essentially perforated, because there is the term 'three-year term', which the NCA does not accept, does not accept. It is circumventing the statutes of the NCA and we will have a huge problem, threatened again by Grexit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u362	But what do you say, Mr. Comrade? Where did you see these?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u363	This is the official position of the NCA, that the phrase ‘three years’ is invading the self-employed of the NCA. Why? Because he can't control, if anything happens, if enforcement by law creates a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u364	You're being danced by the Annells in the bass! This is your creation! You caused it, wash it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u365	That's all you can see, Mr. Gioka!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u366	There is a problem in the statutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u367	Minister, Mr. Kontonis, please, I do not want anyone to interrupt Mr. Haikalis. Mrs Alonitou, ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet! Mr. Contonis, you'll talk later. Mr. Haikalis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u368	We had made it clear at the outset that we are supporting the bill, only if there is no attempt to destroy the NRA's self-employed, which will bring us out of the European organisation. We have made this point from the outset. Unfortunately, that still applies to Article 5. That's what we put on. In this is clearly our position, that we cannot defend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr. Haikalis. Last - and we close - Mrs Christophilopoulou speaks before the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u370	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Kutsuko, you are always ready to intervene in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u372	No, Madam President, I did not do that. For the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u373	We observe exactly what the Rules of Procedure say. Here, Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u374	Minister, we have told you at the beginning of your debate that it is very difficult to clean up the bogeyman in football and not just because there is corruption and illegal money and a boogeyman and a boogeyman in the committee - and on the other hand to ensure that the national team first, but also all the teams will not be threatened with the way out of the European and international fora. We have followed your efforts closely. We're coming to the last minute. What you are reading to us, in our view, is not far from bringing the gold incision as far as Article 15 is concerned. But as far as Article 5 is concerned, Mr Minister, and although I have told you that the rules for ordinary judges are in the right direction... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Madam President, please listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u375	Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u376	I'm not going to show up... [[Noise in the Chamber]] All right, I'm stopping. There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u377	Mrs. Christophilopoulou, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u378	Minister, I'm not going to raise this. Mr. Koukodimos, please, may I address the Minister. Thank you very much. Mr President, I do not raise any point in Article 5 on 'Grexit'. I raise the issue of unconstitutionalism, which we pointed out yesterday and I and our parliamentary representative. Has the matter been debated - I ask you at the last moment, again - with the Ice Bay Court? Is Article 5 in line with the constitutional requirements and has the consent of the judicial authorities of the place? If so, we'll vote for it. However, this presupposes bringing us the final version. The one I have before me does not allow us to vote on it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr. Koukodemos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u380	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we withdraw Rule 15 from the roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Koukodemos. The Minister has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it may be a coincidence that today it has been announced that the Federation of Spain intends to put a padlock on the championship since 16 May. And do you know why? Because the Spanish Parliament, on a proposal from the Government - which is not a left-wing government - decided to legislate that only 4.55% of the television rights in the Federation's funds will go from 4.5%. So here we have no complaint to international federations or any intervention by international federations or any thought to exclude the Spanish groups. The Spanish Government and the Spanish Parliament have taken this decision, which is primarily about internal issues, because they want a fairness and a redistribution of this product, which enters the funds for the benefit of the weak, the weak. So you realise that we have two standards here, on how we are judged and how it intervenes. I tell you to reflect on this point and on the decision taken by the Spanish Parliament, which they considered to be fair and legitimate, in order to move forward on issues that are very serious, such as economics. In these two days that we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, hearing contradictory things in this Parliament. You tell us to take account of what the international federations say, to harmonize with what the international federations say. However, when we debate and find a golden section on the issues of disagreement, you tell us that we have done 'associated'. We don't like that expression at all. I treat her because that's what it was said. You're telling us we don't rule. But when we bring bills, you invite us to withdraw them. You are telling us that the provisions are correct, but we should not vote on them so that there is no risk of Greek exit. You tell us not to touch the status - not the self-defence - of the autonomy that existed with the previous EPA law, but at the same time no one is bothered and we have 'Grexit', as has been forged lately. At the same time, you yourself - I said before - are urging us to intervene in matters relating to the election of the governing bodies of the Football Federation, because there is indeed a problem in the way they are elected, but also in arbitration. But these are the core of not the autonomous, but of the self-employed. You are accusing us that the bill, as you have said, is empty content. Others, however, you have voted for them, but you have also said that you will be voting in favour of many articles. We are told that we, the government majority, are insulting the parliamentary procedure, because Mr Kourakis has brought some amendments to this bill. When he withdrew them, you said so again. What is the matter, ladies and gentlemen, with you, with the opposition? Are you in a state of permanent political schizophrenia? Do you want everything to be true, and what you are accusing us of, and the others that you are urging us to do, and are from the point of view of it? What's going to happen? I would like to say this and address all the parliamentary groups, but above all the honourable Member, Mr Gioka. Indeed, an improvement amendment was made at the last minute, precisely because since yesterday we said that there is no difference in the conceptual content of the expression. Do you think that on the issue of the abolition of autonomy and the self-defence, as the Football Federation should operate, on the basis that all federations in Greece operate on the basis of self-defence, would it be possible for the government to get it back? I'm filing you with the S.O.D. document. It's not the time to list them. This document we had received before Easter - look out, I tell everyone - degraded the bill to an article. He didn't say a single yes in an article. What does that mean? That the government remained firm in the indicators it had defined. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Stavros Kontonis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the SGP and you have heard the international federations too. Did they accept the imposition of administrative fines and administrative penalties or say that these are disguised fines of a disciplinary nature and should not the government take such measures? They were saying the second. It's the first one. What were we told about the use of regular judges? Did they agree or disagree horizontally and vertically? Second one. It's the first one. And since we are talking about the self-employed, what was the case to date and what would be the case until the law was passed? It applies - and I say this to everyone - to the Greek legal order and the constitution of the country, to the status of islands, especially the autonomy of the Greek football Federation. Is this abolished or not abolished? It shall be repealed and replaced by the provision in Article 15(2). Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to everything else... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like two minutes, Madam President. I'm talking about the critics. On what was at issue and on what had become the great conflict, the government did not take a single step backwards. He discussed aspects and aspects of the whole legislative process. We believe that we have exhausted every margin on our part and that there are others responsible for what happens from now on. We stress this: others have a responsibility. Because we - and I say this again to everyone - wanted to demonstrate to the Greek people and to those involved in sport that the purpose of this legislation was not to find neither the clubs, the Greek teams outside the European Championships nor much more the national team, which I mentioned specifically in my speech, the introduction of the debate. It was our aim and remains to get a class into this lawlessness regime that prevails in professional football, and we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill takes a first step. We didn't say that matters were solved. We didn't say the pathogens were solved. We didn't say that this thing was over, but a first step is taking place at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, the government in front of this phenomenon of extreme and inhuman violence, which even hit children's championships, had two roads ahead of this. One way we take him, I think, with soundness and thought, to legislate, to take a step forward, along with the work of justice, to clarify this situation. The other way was a frontal conflict with everyone, even those who are not to blame in the field of sport. We, ladies and gentlemen, preferred the first route. We can be criticised for that. We'll hear it. We believe, however, that what the government has fought for so many days and months since it took over - three months, that is - the greatest part is implemented with the bill, which you have in front of you. I just want to make one reference to Article 1. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that Article 1 has finally been accepted by the international federations. I am referring to you, ladies and gentlemen, from the river. I also told the committee that no overpower is taken over by the Secretary of State for Sport. On the other hand, he takes over all those responsibilities which all the other relevant ministers have in their area. I told you this: why can't the Minister of Sports on Violence intervene with administrative fines in groups that create such incidents, while the Minister of Tourism may intervene in an anonymous hotel company for Hotel Law violations? Why can the Minister for Industry intervene to impose fines on an anonymous company for pollution, which he is doing? Why can the Minister for Labour intervene and impose fines on a public limited company for violating labour legislation? So what's going on here? It restores normality and restores a regime that should exist and does not exist. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that right now, in these days, it is going on revealing the whole of society, but also the political parties - to understand exactly what is happening - a procedure before the special interrogator. It is a process which had been delayed quite a bit - it is true - but which today reveals to a large extent, and the trials which will be carried out to an even greater extent, the path of the Greek professional football. Based on what we know, we believe that we are doing our duty, that we are bringing the problems of Greek professional football back to the fore, and that we are putting their problems and their responsibilities and international federations ahead of us. Because the international federations are also responsible for the fact that things have reached Greece today. We therefore call on you to vote in favour of the bill with the vast majority, which has also been accepted in principle. I would like to say that, in the light of sport law, we will be in constant consultation with both parties and sports organisations, in order to produce the best possible result and we believe that we will achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate is being declared late...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u384	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Gioka, you're rapporteur. You are not a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u386	Madam President, I would like the floor because the Minister referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u387	Madam President, you have not given us the floor on staff. Twice I asked for the floor. You're not giving anyone the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u388	No one's gonna take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u389	Or everyone or anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Koukodimo, please! I have already announced that the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law is adjourned: 'Emerging measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions', and their vote will be taken separately. Can Article 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u392	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u394	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u397	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister by a majority vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u398	Madam President, the ANELs are not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u399	The ANELs are not here at the moment, as you were from yesterday's vote on another bill, and we did not comment on it, Mr Constantinople. [[Noise - Protests from the ward of PASOK]] We said he's not here, okay? Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u401	Yes
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u406	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u407	Madam President, Article 1 has not been voted on! We are voting on the declared, based on the position of the rapporteurs. In Article 1 the ANELs were absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u408	Mr. Kutsuko, please! Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u416	Article 3 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. Can Article 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u419	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u420	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u424	Article 4 was therefore accepted as amended by the Minister by a majority. An application for a roll-call vote has been submitted for Article 5 by Members of the New Democracy. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u427	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u432	Article 6 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u435	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u438	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u440	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u448	Article 8 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u451	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u456	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u464	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u465	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u467	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u468	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u472	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u474	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u475	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u480	Article 12 has therefore been accepted as majority. An application for a roll-call vote has been submitted to Members of the New Republic for Articles 13 and 14. Will Rule 15 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u485	No, because of the drunkenness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u488	Article 15 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Only in the Minutes of today's sitting and because the ANEL Parliamentary Group was absent, can I ask her opinion on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u490	Please tell us about Article 2.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u492	Therefore, the ANLE Parliamentary Group for Article 1 and 2 has the positive vote. We shall now proceed to the amendments. Let's go to Amendment No 110 and special number 7. I would remind you that it is a ministerial amendment and it concerns the transfer of the excess personnel of the Greek horse racing organisation and the increase in the maximum runway capacity of natural persons. It was presented today by the Minister responsible, Mrs Valvani. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 110 and a special number?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u497	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u500	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 110 and a special 7 was accepted by a majority - by a large majority - and is part of the bill as the same article, Article 16. Will the House ask: is the parliamentary amendment accepted under a general number 59 and a special one, concerning the rewarding of athletes with exceptional discrimination for 2010-2011 who did not provide the necessary documentation?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u501	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 59 and a special 1 was accepted unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. Can the House ask: is the parliamentary amendment adopted by SYRIZA MPs under a general number 102 and a special 6 regarding the license for photojournalists to enter the racing spaces at the opening of competitions?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u509	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 102 and a special 6 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. [[To enter page 257 a]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of New Democracy Members on Articles 5, 13 and 14 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u510	As far as the procedure is concerned, I would like to remind you that under Rule 72(1) of the Rules of Procedure, the roll-call vote shall be taken when a request signed by the total number of Members is made. At the end of the debate on this matter, the names of the signatories are given for the request by Members. If the required minimum number of Members present by the signatories is not completed, the application shall be deemed not to have been submitted. If the minimum number of signatories is established, the meeting shall be suspended and a communication shall be made at the premises of the House. Ten minutes after the announcement, the sitting shall be resumed in accordance with Rule 72(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I shall now read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mr. Koukodimos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mr. Timolian Cocksucker. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mrs. Karamanlis Anna. Here. Mr. Giannakis Stergios. Here you go. Mr. Fortsakis Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mr Metatakis Panagiotis (South). Here you go. Mr. Stamatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Vultish Sophia. Here. Mr. Yakoumatos Grassos. Here you go. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Economou Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kerameo Nike. Here. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Does the House agree to interrupt for three (3) minutes, to comply with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u511	For a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u512	Does the House agree to interrupt for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u513	Therefore, with the consent of the House, we are interrupting our meeting for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u514	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. You should be aware, ladies and gentlemen, and I am also hearing about it now - as many times as necessary, because faxes are coming up at the last minute - and the services of this House are obliged to do their job properly. There will be a roll-call vote on Articles 5, 13 and 14 of the Bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions". Members of Parliament Mr Zesis Xanna from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy are on the list. In accordance with Article 72(6): Receiving the articles of the bill reads “THE”. The non-accepting articles of the bill say 'OHS'. The voters say 'PARON'. I would also like to inform you that fax numbers have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House, which makes their vote known on the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. I would like to inform the House that some Members will precede, because there is a special meeting and we will start without any derogation. The secretaries and the voters have taken the list of speakers that will precede. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u515	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by my colleagues under Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u516	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter from Mr Gregorios Psarianos, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he was present, he would vote 'OH'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u517	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS, thirty-seven German citizens, members of the Tarper Europa Union. [[To enter Protocol on page 273a]] The House warmly welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-two students and students and seven teachers attending them from the School Center of Cardamylon Chios and from the Municipal School of Diploma of Pieria. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u518	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. Article 5 has adopted a total of 246 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 146 Members voted. Under Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, 67 Members voted. They voted for 33 MPs. Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. A total of 247 Members voted on Article 13. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 156 Members voted. Against this article, 91 Members voted against. Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 14 has voted for a total of 247 Members. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 149 Members voted. Against this article, 91 Members voted against. They voted for 7 MPs. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. The roll-call vote protocol shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u519	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u522	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs: "Urgent measures to counter violence in sport and other provisions" were accepted by a majority in principle and on articles. Its vote on the whole shall be postponed for Friday 8 May 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-05-07-S1-commons.u523	With the consent of this House at 16.45 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, May 8, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on topical and urgent questions; b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
