ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 18-11-2015, the minutes of the KZ Bureau were confirmed at its meetings of 18 November 2015 with regard to the vote in all the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs:]] (a) The Agreement establishing an Association between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, following the Correction Protocol annexed thereto.’; (b) ‘Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, and the Practition Protocol thereto’. (c) 'Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, following the Amending Protocol annexed thereto'. As well as: (a) the adoption of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2014; (b) the vote of Parliament's draft budget for the financial year 2016; and (c) the decision on the draft amendment to the resolution on the reduction of parliamentary compensation) Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Emergency arrangements for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement'. This bill, in accordance with the decision of the Standing Parliamentary Committees, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with this procedure, the debate is being concluded in principle and on the articles in a meeting. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and a representative are involved in the debate. The speech shall be limited to half the time laid down in Rule 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, although not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that five speakers from SYRIZA be given the floor, three speakers from New Democracy and one speaker from each of the other parties. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committees on Economic Affairs, Production and Trade and Social Affairs are tabling their report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement". We will start with Mr Santorini, who has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the parallel programme that we presented to the Greek people, our organised negotiating tactics, but above all our political stigma, governs every bill that comes to this House and we have an absolute consciousness of our governance. The promise we have made to the Greek people to negotiate to keep the country upright, the promise to implement our programme for exiting the crisis continues. At the same time, we will continue to try every legislative intervention to have a clear class mark and class choice. Because our choice to regulate red loans, at the same time, with the process of recapitalising the banks, apart from an obvious, correct, financial policy, is also a political option so that we do not charge the Greek people with the costs of new recapitalisations, which may be needed if the explosive problem of red loans is not addressed. And it is a clear class option to protect the housing of the citizens who live on the limit of decent living and at the same time to provide for them so that the state can cover part of the loan instalment that they cannot pay. Citizens in this category are essentially 25% of borrowers who have not succeeded or entered the Katseli law. It is estimated that the number of households to benefit is fifty - eight thousand. The households included in this arrangement are those whose monthly family income does not exceed the reasonable living costs, i.e. they are the very poor households, and the objective value of their residence for five-member families does not exceed EUR 220,000. In addition to these families, about eighty-one thousand households, 35% of borrowers, who were not included in Law 3869/2010, will be able to join the new regulations and protect their first residence on the basis of the current commercial value of their property. Such a arrangement will lead to a clearly smaller loan instalment and will allow them to be made aware again. These households have a monthly family income that does not exceed reasonable living costs, based on ELSTAT, increased by 70% and at the same time their real estate for a five-member family does not exceed the objective value of 280,000 euros. For this category of borrowers there is also a second security test, allowing them to resort to the instrument of the Bank's Code of Conduct if they are not satisfied with the legal settlement of their loan. Because throughout the committees we have heard that 40% of households are left unprotected, we have to clarify that the percentage is for people whose monthly family income exceeds EUR 3 000 and the objective value of their residence exceeds EUR 280,000. Besides, as is well known, a corresponding percentage of borrowers from those applying to the Katseli Act were finally out of order, because they simply could not substantiate the inability to pay their loans. And since I like examples, I will tell you a simple example: The objective value of a property in Soufli a hundred and fifty sqm. It's 67,500 euros. In Nice, here in Piraeus, the equivalent of 50 sq.m. it's 127,500 euros. These dwellings are protected. They are homes that are supposedly living in people's families. On the contrary, a corresponding one hundred and fifty sq.m. property. in Psychics and Philothei, with an objective value of 1,50,000 euros, is not protected. The conclusions of yours. That is why, as I said before, it is a class choice for us to protect the residence of the poor and middle family and not reward the strategic mispaid. It must be made clear that the new arrangements do not affect in any case those who have so far been subject to or applied for under the Katseli Act. It must also be made clear that the only evidence taken into account for the integration into the regulation is family income and the objective value of the property, and the total amount of debt is not counted, a request from the creditors who have not been accepted, because it would exclude many borrowers. We heard yesterday in committee that L.4224/2013, the famous Hatzidakis law, was an adequate legal instrument for borrowers. This has been heard by many colleagues in the Opposition. Of course, fellow Members of the Opposition have refrained from going into detail, because they obviously did not. First, the deadline for applying for the application of the above law expired in February 2014, with applied for approximately fifteen thousand. It is a number clearly less than the expectations of the legislator and much less of the doro that Vice-Presidents are doing today. Secondly, the following criteria had to be cumulatively introduced into this law: income up to EUR 35,000, an objective value of EUR 200,000 and a total value of EUR 270,000 of movable and immovable property. It is clear that these criteria do not withstand the criteria of the proposed regulation. Finally - although we pointed this out yesterday, colleagues from the Opposition chose to silence it - the proposed arrangement is a potential haircut for the value of the regulated loans. And I ask this House: is it or is it not an important innovation that is being introduced today? In addition to the arrangements for red housing loans, the bill also goes on to a number of additional arrangements, such as the equivalent measures for the non-implementation of VAT in education, an unfair measure, which would particularly affect the poor and average family, particularly in relation to language schools and centres. The charge is transferred to a 5-minute fee per OPCW gambling column and to the application of excise duty on wine. It is clear that in particular the implementation of this last measure affects domestic winemaking, and that is why the Minister made a commitment last night to re-examine it. We are also waiting for the final outcome of the negotiations. The bill also includes the arrangements for the taxation of rents at the time they are collected, satisfying a fixed and fair demand of owners of real estate. This is where we need to remind the doro that had taken place a few weeks ago when this provision had returned. This dormant, who was made by them, disguises them and ultimately ridicules them. Because three weeks ago, here they terrified property owners that they would be taxed for non-recoverable rents. From there on, for changes in pharmaceutical policy, this bill provides for the application of clawback to intra-surface spending. For 2016 it amounts to EUR 570 million, for 2017 at EUR 550 million, for 2018 at EUR 530 million. Let us remind you that the lenders wanted the clawback to be set at EUR 500 million this year. Finally, the bill introduces amendments to the one hundred instalments regulation, namely the possibility of the taxpayer delaying the payment of a debt. The law stipulates that from 15-12-2016 to 31-6-2016, a 30-day extension has been in force from the day on which arrears to the taxpayer’s debt is due. From 1-7-2016 to 31-12-2017, an extension of 10 days to delay the debt shall apply. From 1-1-2018, the condition of the stay in the arrangement is that the debt is repaid within a period of time. However, there are also the good news of the day. It is that the possibility of adjusting all non-current debts in twelve or twenty-four instalments is being extended, provided that this total does not exceed EUR 50 000, which means that many taxpayers will continue to be aware and accept the benefit of the hundreds of instalments. Ladies and gentlemen, the five-year crisis hit the average Greek family and led people, who could not think of having debts, being threatened with losing their home. They are these people who have called housewives and who can no longer be 'housewives'. We protect these people and not the people who are consciously fleeing. It is true, ladies and gentlemen - and you said so many in this Chamber, we heard it very much - that we were electorally speaking and called it a bronze: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. And we were talking about these people that the crisis hit. We did not say 'no villa in the hands of a banker'. You guys are cutting off those villas! That's our difference! I close by addressing the Greek citizens - because, in fact, addressing you is not very important - to assure them that no people's house will go into the hands of a banker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u3	I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 20 November 2015. As you know, he's with Thursday and Friday. You'll be distributed. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 143/16-11-2015 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the coverage of transport costs by public service contract and PSAL students. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 130/13-11-2015 is a topical question by MP II Athens of New Democracy Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the need to exclude disabled and severely disabled people from the new reductions in the third memorandum. 3. The Question No 132/13-11-2015 by MP Pella of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the delay in returning excise duty on agricultural oil. 4. The question by No. 136/13-11-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks concerning the opening of the tender procedures for the Patras - Tower motorway in the Prefecture of Ilias. 5. The 145/16-11-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, Minister for Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the "Help at Home". 6. The question by No 127/11-11-2015 of Mr. Achaias, Member of the Potamiou, Mr. Jason Fotella, Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on the sudden change in head of the Greek Police Home Affairs Directorate. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 139/16-11-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance, concerning the lack of a clear legal basis for the counting of guardian of the schoollands in the country. 8. Under number 144/16-11-2015, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios Katsiantoni to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on security and protection measures for Greek citizens within the borders due to the phenomenon of ‘Islamic terrorism’. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 142/16-11-2015 topical question by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the need for the immediate removal of the vessel "MYTILNI" from the port of Karlovas Samos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister of Finance regarding the implementation of the tax exemption programme for the energy upgrading of dwellings. 3. The question raised by Mr Theocharis Theocharis on the attitude of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs in dealing with international assessors at the schools of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. 4. The 140/16-11-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassiliou Kokkalis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened ratification of the power cut in cases of inability to repay consumers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 172-12-10-2015 question by MP B' Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the problem of the Environmental Sensitisation Park. The above topical and urgent question form is introduced by deferral from Thursday 19 November 2015, following the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 164/17-11-2015 by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to the Minister of Finance about the risk of losing the hundred-dollar arrangement for consistent taxpayers. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 150/16-11-2015 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Karagunis, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on issues of implementation of the new Code of Civil Procedure. 3. The 147/16-11-2015 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the upgrading of maritime education. 4. The 153/16-11-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the "Help at Home". 5. The Question No 168/17-11-2015 by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Economy, Development and Tourism on the closure of the company "Coca - Cola Tria Epsilon" to Volos. 6. The 158/17-11-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the problem of Achaia's health centres. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 155/16-11-2015 topical question by Piraeus II of the Association of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalokoros to the Minister of Health regarding the payment of the newspapers of the medical staff of Piraeus II Health Region and Aegean Islands. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 165/17-11-2015 by MP B' Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diakaras to the Minister of Environment and Energy concerning the authorisation of the fishing plant in Porto Germenos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 148/16-11-2015 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about the bureaucratic obstacles to the production of the legendary Greek car "PONY". 3. The 151/16-11-2015 topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the self-reliance of the Greek Open University. 4. The Question No 169/17-11-2015 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction on the payroll of workers in the regions. 5. The 159/17-11-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the loss of the percentage adjustment due to the unilateral reduction by the banks of the amount of the instalment paid by the debtors in the banking account. I would also like to inform you that it has been made known to me that from New Democracy in today's debate a Parliamentary representative is appointed as Members of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Also, from the People's Association - Golden Dawn special speaker is appointed MP Ilias Panagiotaros and Parliamentary Representative Evangelos Karakostas. From the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR A special speaker is appointed MP Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos. A special speaker from the river is the Member, Mr. Theocharis and Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Spyros Dannelis. The Secretariat of the Group of Independent Greeks is the rapporteur, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos. Mr Marios Georgiadis and Mr Aristides Fokas are also appointed as a special speaker in the Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u5	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u6	To make it clear in plenary, now that we are all here - you said it yourself, in the order of speakers at the beginning - that the sitting will be closed today at the end of the hour provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that is to say at 19.30' we will have a vote if a request for a roll-call vote is to be made. In this sense, I would like to say that everyone who speaks must have the restraint so that the number of Members who are proposed to speak from all parties can be handled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u7	Madam President, those of us who are not registered? The ones that haven't been registered?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u8	No, it can't. It's organized.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u9	Why don't colleagues talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u10	Can the list be opened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u11	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u12	Whatever the President says, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u13	No, it won't open the list. Some of the parties are speakers, apart from the Rules of Procedure. It is urgent, Mr Colleague, the bill. That's the process. In addition to the Rules of Procedure, we have said that each party should propose from one speaker beyond the rapporteurs. You won't use the card. That's the process. Mr. Dendias has the floor. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, would you like us to finish first with my colleagues so that I won't interrupt them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u15	No, you have the floor, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in the style of my dearest majority rapporteur, I understand that the government is getting a balance. I will repeat today what I said to the Commission yesterday, that this is not a matter for us to prevail in verbal cliffs, but for us to analyse a problem that burns the average Greek and see the best solution within the real context that we have. In order to do this, however, there is a necessary and essential condition: to tell the truth. And what is presented by the government, in the way it is presented, is allegedly protecting the dwellings of either of them, or in any case not the truth. The truth is that protection is being curtailed dramatically. There were two pillars of protection: firstly, self-lawful protection, which was provided for in successive laws. Kostis Hadjidakis had proposed these laws, whose end is rightly said that on December 31st, with the difference, ladies and gentlemen, there was now a moratorium with the banks, firstly, and, secondly, that repeatedly and pre-electionally, but also after that you had promised to vote for new laws to extend this regime. You did not. Secondly, you only keep the protection you have if you go to court. And yet you keep it - it is the well-known Katseli law - with reduced conditions, with more difficult conditions. And I mean harder than the Hatzidakis law. Whilst, before there was an income of 35,000 euros, you are now going to 27,450 euros. While there were 200,000 euros before, now you go to 180,000 euros. While there was 270,000 euros of total assets before, you are now going to something much worse: to the cooperative debtor, to the characterisation of the cooperative debtor, and indeed retroactively, which is about no one fulfills. So there, where a large number was protected, a small number is currently being protected. You want to tell society? Good. You don't want to say that? I'm sorry, you're not telling the truth. We discussed Article 15 yesterday, Article 14, with both Ministers and their legal partners. We have shown them our legal flaw in the article and, with the intentions declared by the government, I hope they will improve it. However, I have something else to say, which in any case is good to see sincerely. You say here that anyone who has no payment, will apply, will come the Greek State, since it has the preconditions, which are worse than the previous ones, that is, the objective value of the 180,000 goes to 120,000, to pay the instalments. Even in the three years, if it can't, the Greek State will come to pay the rest. And for all this, you put in the band a bill of 100 million, of course, wickedly, without specifying whether the public has a claim against the debtor, i.e. if he waives his right to ask for the money he paid to the debtor back. But I ask you: Who does this benefit measure refer to? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is given by the first line, which has not been mentioned, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Do you know who this measure covers? It only covers mortgages. Aren't you telling me how many of us are lawyers here? How many loans are mortgages? I know all the loans are in pretexts. Not even a loan is a mortgage. This regulation, as you have it, does not cover even 0.001% of debtors. And yet for three days on the channels you say that all the unpunished people in the country will have the opportunity to resort. Where's the truth? Why don't you just say the truth: 'We can't' or 'This we can't'? I am referring to your joint experience. You all know that. Subordinated loans do not exist. There are only pre-marked loans, because the mortgage is too expensive. It costs 4.5% of the loan value. Apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, I have said before that it is the first time that private individuals have been bankrupt. This bankruptcy of private individuals does not go as an autonomous positive measure, but as a side-marker, with the definition of a liquidator for the individual assets of the debtor, without even providing that the debtor, as long as everything that has been done in the hammer, from there on, as in commercial bankruptcy, will end with his obligations, will be able to start his life again. Is that what you can at least make sure he gets in? Can you make sure you do a serious job if you're going to do it? There was no mention, while I was waiting for it to be done, of the obvious photographic provision in the law that I read to you yesterday. I repeat it in the hope that the government, in any case, will have the fundamental sensitivity to answer how much this is about. I am referring to the administration of credit institutions. In Article 5, paragraph 28(b), it is referred to as the merit of anyone who has been in charge of the administration of a credit institution not to have been assigned to him in the last four years political duties. I am only aware of one case in the present case. Is it photographic, ladies and gentlemen, the order? There is no time limit for the law for four years. There is a single, five-year, ten-year, fifteen-year-old, twenty-year-old, and unclarified. When you've suddenly put four years here, are you referring to a person, yes or no? Tell me no, it's not about a person, it's about a charge, and you give me the charge. But the device smells. I am referring again to the 100 doses and to the appeal to the curator, for whom the dear Minister, Mr Alexiadis, conquered New Democracy yesterday. First of all, let me tell him that we've been through the look he used yesterday. The denouncing style, lifted by the finger and invoked our own honesty and morality toward others is the 1980 ’ s. Now, with the overall responsibilities of all of us, we are talking about finding the best. I imagine you referred me to V. 4174/13. I reply to you as follows: Firstly, if we assume that this law was wrong, as you are doing to turn it against us, then you are wrong to invoke it. For if you were elected to repeat errors, then you should not be elected. Secondly, if you consider it correct, then Article 43 of the Act could refer directly to you and did not require any different provision of your own. Thirdly, the law you refer to - if we talk about the same law - has conditions in the C, paragraph g, bb, ah. It has three different conditions, which are not repeated here. Fourthly, we are talking about lex generalis, and here we are talking about the hundred doses that are lex specialis, special law, and for which there was special objective regulation. Fifthly, there is no question anywhere in the law of an advanced country that puts the human factor and considers that this is an element of improvement and more transparency. So why are you doing this? I am not at all prepared to question your motives, as you are doing. I think everyone's trying for the good. But trying for the good, why don't you do the obvious thing, objectiveize the procedures, and take out the human element, which you want to call responsible, to be called the head of town? As you wish, tell him. The human element always involves the risk, in the good case of the error, of the bad case of corruption. There's no reason to go on with this. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one reality here. The reality is that the government dramatically restricts protection. It also does not have the kindness to come directly and tell us the truth, to tell us what its real potential are, and within these real possibilities, to find the best solution to alleviate a society which, to a large extent, is not by conviction, a society that cannot fulfil its obligations, in a recession that absorbed about 30% of the country's Gross National Product. We tell the Greek society that everything is going well, that by this arrangement there is no question, that people's residence is being protected. I'm really talking to you. Can you show me some villas of 130,000 euros, of the 140,000 euros left unprotected, to see who owns them? Have you seen many villas of objective value under 200,000 euros, see them myself and go buy them all together? What are you talking about? Who are you talking about? Who do you think believes and listens to you? How do you think you can continue a vocabulary that you used upwards when you were not a government, but which now cannot withstand the great criterion of reality in front of you? Ladies and gentlemen, you also did not have the prediction to put transitional provisions in this law. There is a body of applications in the law of Katseli: sixty - five to seventy thousand applications. What about these applications? There's not even a transitional arrangement. These people are all in the air under the regime of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall end with this. I am sorry to say that the general policy of the country is under the great amateur regime. That seems to be the case in the small ones, it seems to be what we are talking about here today, it also seems to be the big ones. I will not extend myself to the trip of the Prime Minister to Ankara yesterday, in time that he did not see with an agenda that did not help the Greek international position and presence. It is something that we will discuss when we have full information, but the initial samples are extremely disappointing. I would just like to make a request again - a request or a request, if you wish - to the present ministers to take advantage of these few hours in order to try and do so as effectively as possible within the context of reality. In order to do so, however, you must directly tell the National Representation and through it in the Greek society that you are drastically restricting protection, so that we too can see what we can do to help it. If you continue with the opposition vocabulary, it simply cannot move anything forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u18	What do you want, Mr. Alexiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u19	I would like to reply to something that has been said about the provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u20	Wait a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u21	And less.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u22	He's a minister. He's entitled to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u23	Because something has been heard, I want with the same courtesy that has been formulated to answer. We are not introducing a new procedure under Article 4. We repeat a process that existed in a law that had been passed in the past. We do not regard it as the best process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u24	You're changing yours, Mr. Alexiadis. It's a provocative thing to say. This is what you deceive the Greek people and you took the one hundred-dollar election. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u25	To denounce the Greek people, Mr. Brutsi, because he was deceived! I agree. That's a point of view too! Let's report him, but please, if you'll excuse me, what the law says. That's why I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u26	Let him run out of the minute he asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u27	We're not introducing a new procedure. We copy a process that existed from the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u28	Bring your own laws. Is it dismantling or isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u29	I understand why you don't want me to listen, but I'll be heard. Please. As far as Article 4 is concerned - what clearly says in means - it does not say anywhere that there will be a subjective crisis, because we want to stop this. We have announced that in 2016 the citizen will stop going to tax. There will be a decision by the Secretary-General of Public Revenue which will determine the procedure and objective it as far as it can. Because in the papers that the citizen has to go, there may be papers that do not exist in the 'TAXIS', we cannot put a provision here and say that this will be done through 'TAXIS', because it can be something that cannot be implemented. The government's aim is to regulate it on the basis of objective criteria, without subjective crises, and this will be reflected in the decision taken by the GATT. I accept your comment on yesterday's tone and it was really a mistake if I created this issue, but I would like you, Mr Dendia, as an old parliamentarian, to judge the reaction of Ethiopian MPs while the Minister was talking about holidays, laughing at me, mocking and so on. I guess that doesn't make us back in 1980. It turns us back farther or takes us where some people want to take us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u30	Madam President, I request the floor on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u31	Let the list of speakers begin, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u32	Yeah, wait. You've got a lot of requests. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u33	Minister, first of all, I am not going to consume Members' time in discernment. They don't need to. On the substance of what you said, if repetition of Law 4174/13, refer directly to him. However, I note the following. You are giving enormous discretion here, and you are indeed referring to part of the decision of the Secretary-General of Public Revenue. You know, however, - I am sure - that with such general criteria the power of the law to the Secretary-General will be void, because the Secretary-General's decision is completely free of this text and will not stand in justice. In tax matters, its competence is binding, and you must here specify the general description of the decision that it will adopt and you do not do so at all. So what you are saying again in a dead end will also lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u34	As I announced before, the vote will take place at 19:30. If all the speakers, the speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, etc. They manage the time properly, we will have the opportunity to speak with other Members. Therefore, I am currently opening the machine to register with the card those who want to talk, but it is up to the proper management of the time. I, as President, will try to keep the time, but I call on everyone to keep the time. Before Mr Panagiotaros comes to Vima, I would like to inform you that the JRC has announced that in today's debate the Member will be a special speaker, Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. You have 12 minutes at your disposal, Mr. Panayotare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u35	With your tolerance. Thank you, Madam President. The rapporteur of the New Democracy did not want to comment on the Greek Prime Minister's trip to Turkey. We will, however, do so, because the visit of the Prime Minister to the suburban enemy of Hellenism in this... Turkey, which is responsible for most of the sufferings of Greeks and of Europe, as we see, was a tragedy. We saw the Prime Minister sitting under a huge board of Kemal Ataturk - and that is nothing wrong with the Turks, of course - in contrast to what is happening in Greece when a Turkish official comes in, who we are running to download whatever painting has to do with the Revolution of 1821 or something else that might hurt them. We also saw the gift that Mr. Tsipras gave. For the first time, he took the appearance of the Turkish National Team - not of Greece, of course, because he also makes pyres with the nationalist - shirt with his name. Nice things! We also saw the compliments of talking to Dabutoglou "Ahmet and Ahmet", as if they were best friends since yesterday. The culmination was his well-known line - he's all worked for the tie - when they gave him a tie, like all the SYRIZA executives, and the Prime Minister said: "I'll wear it when we go together to Cyprus." Rather, this tie should be made a loop to the Solomos killer, who is a state official and a best friend of Erdogan and Davotoglou. This is the only use of this tie. We saw the other one, that he was watching the field, and when the National Anthem of Greece sounded the whole field. Okay, that doesn't really excite him. However, should it not be moved by the fact that the Turkish fans themselves were unstoppable and in one minute silence about the victims of the Islamics in Paris, the Islamics who constantly finance the Turks, who bring them to Europe through Greece and elsewhere, who are keyly responsible for everything that is happening? That's too bad! As for the open borders you were talking about, it is now on the forum what has happened. All the jihadists from Syria through Greece come and some prostitutes also give them false passports, whether Syrian or Greek or others. Even in Honduras, the grace of Greece arrived, where five Syrians were arrested with false Greek passports. For the Practicals, keep this photo with Mr Davotoglou and Kemal Ataturk's painting, keep the headlines with the photo with the appearance of Mr. Tsipras and keep the front page of the newspaper "FRIGHT", which remains faithful to its ideology, in its positions that the Armed Forces immediately assume border guarding. Keep this for the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications and photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Today, this bill proves to be awkward about the fact that you are awkward capitalists, loan sharks, their best employees, invested in a communist project. Or is the other way around, that you're communists with capitalist advancement? Either way, the result is the same and you end up in what both of you think, and the communists and capitalists, 'no house in the hands of owners'. What the SYRIZA rapporteur told us, "we talked about some houses, in the homes of the poor and not the rich," is bullshit, because the vast majority of all housing loans concern small and medium-sized people, who were practicing, trying to get a home on a loan, paying off instalments and terms that shouldn't be them and now you're telling them that "you're rich and well-being and taking homes". How far away they sound what the Syrians and the Independent Greeks used to say, this enthusiasm that no one has understood how it fits, when Mr. Kammenos slugging and saying that not a single house will go into the hands of a banker! Now we see that you have brought us a law, with which you say that 25% of loans are completely protected. It is completely protected, because it will put the Greek state behind the money it has not, with 100 million euros that you have budgetd for, which no one knows where to find, and perhaps you should also look for some equivalents. Another 35% has a relative protection and it is up to the banks. Write accurately: "If, for some reason, the income cannot cover the instalments..." - but it cannot cover them, so they do not pay the instalments, because if they could, they would pay, they are not battered, as the SYRIZA rapporteur said - "... the loan is referred to the Code of Conduct Banks." Do banks have ethics? Why is it not referred to the current Greek legislation, which is absolutely specific and which has so far made more than two thousand judicial decisions for the benefit of borrowers and at the expense of banks? The Greek Constitution also in Article 95(5) says that the administration has an obligation to comply with judicial decisions, to these thousands of judicial decisions for the benefit of borrowers rather than banks. Infringement of this obligation gives rise to liability for any competent body, as laid down by law, both for politicians and for judges. The law lays down the measures necessary to ensure compliance of the administration. And the bank decides on its own how to restructure the loan, whether it wants or will want at some point - which will be done immediately in the next few days or weeks - to bundle all red loans to foreign funds, crows, vultures abroad. They, whether they are arranged or not, will wait around the corner because they know very well that the Greek people have kneeled and can't pay anything at all. However, protection is not guaranteed unless agreement is reached and the right to more stringent measures is retained. The answer of the Golden Dawn is the application of the laws as we told you. No house in the hands of a cradle, whether a banker in Greece or a "fund" outside Greece or any fraudster comes to take the life of the Greek people. SYRIZA's rapporteur said that a second chance is given to borrowers to become housewives again. What do you mean? You mean they were crooks and scumbags? Screwdrivers were some of them. We said yesterday - we say it again and again today, for the Greek people to hear it, because it went to mute - about the decision on the black money of Yiannos Papantoniou and his wife. We're talking about 1,300,000 euros, which nobody knows where they came from. Ultimately, she will get her out clean not with 100,000 euros I said yesterday, but with about 83 000 euros. That is to say, it has legalised with 6% - less, that is, from 10% - on this black amount all of this and cleaned up. She ate four years on parole, and it's all right. Well, who the fuck are the cops? Well, who are the dirty ones? Well, who are they taking the sea loans? Well, who are they who took the Greek people's money and put it in their pockets and in their personal accounts! So because you've done everything, we've come to a point to try to bring - and you're finally bringing it - a number of irrational measures. With the inefficiency that you see and confirm it every day, you lead to the discovery of ballistic anti-national equivalents in order to close other holes. Everyone knows - and you admit it - that it is tragic to happen, such as 23% in education. Now you've brought some equivalents. You will, you say, put EUR 0,05 in every gambling column, only the OPAP, not other online or other bets. For God's sake! We have no relationship and no sympathy to anyone, nor to the current owner of the OPCW. After all, Golden Dawn took the lead in not privatising the OPAP, to know what we're saying. This, of course, goes against what you are trying to do, namely collect. Everyone knows and has brought you the details and agents of the PPP agencies, who have told you that 'black' money, 'black' bet reaches about 6 billion euros. If you were able to catch and bring part of it to legal gambling, then you would have much more revenue to cover your equivalents. But with what you're doing, you'll turn more players into illegal gambling, because they're definitely not gonna stop gambling. The second equivalent is that you brought the excise duty into the wine. This has never been done anywhere on earth. We are the only country in the world - a producer country - that we put excise duty on the product, which is an agricultural product, is considered as a food and is not considered a spirit drink. To understand what is happening, to tell you that in 1992, wine had 8% to 9% VAT - if I am not mistaken - and now we have 23%. Preciously imported drinks, such as whiskey, vodka and others, from 36%, and they went to 23%, reduced their price. Nice try! Nice unfair competition at the expense of the two hundred thousand winemakers, about seven hundred wineries, over twenty thousand wineries and thousands of other winemakers! Unnecessary competition at the expense of all Greeks. This shows that you are not interested in primary production at all, neither in the development nor in the prosperity of Greek society, because all the equivalents, and the previous ones, concern only Greek products and not imported. Because if you do it to imported, you know what's going on! One comes from the troika, as happened with the beef that is in the overwhelming majority of the import, and said "nein, you will not put 23% in the beef, put someplace else". With regard to unrealistic rents, which you present as something that delights the citizen, is this the spirit of the 'first time left', not to tax on unrealistic rents if and if it has done the process of extermination of the insider? You all know very well what is happening in our day, not many rents are collected. But because the Greek also has an honor, he says, "Let the rent be rented. I may not have to eat, but I won't throw him out on the street." You will now force them, because you will tax them on something they do not collect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] As far as the 100 doses are concerned, you continue to prove for the second time how insolvent you are. You brought a measure which was a strong painkiller to the debt of all Greek private individuals, free professionals, all those who owed the hundred instalments, and you slowly start to degrade it yourself. You raised the interest rate in a previous bill to 5.5%. Now you bring measures and conditions like that, which is certain that after a while no one will be able to pay, will be able to keep anything at all. Don't you want to collect? Because some money was collected in this process. Oh, no! You don't want to, you don't want to. But it's what you want. For traffic charges, insolvency again. You said that cars that do not pollute, new technology, will not pay fees for some time. And what did you do? You're insolent again. Now, after someone took people - they took rental companies, they took several - thousands, tens, hundreds of cars and they were all like that, you tell them 'no, you'll pay'. You guys are so nice! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Madam President, to speak for two more minutes. To further reduce hospital costs, what do we say? What happens in public hospitals has no precedent. And you continue with further reductions, which, along with what you are going to do in the Greek medicine, is the perfect combination of the destruction of public ex-free health, of the Greek pharmaceutical industry, with what this means. We read more, as in Article 1, where you say self-evidently: ‘The confidential information held by the tax administration and may be provided to ELSTAT’. What ELSTAT? The corrupt and rotten ELSTAT, which you accused of getting the evidence and doing what they wanted? Oh, no! It is personal data - since you so much love them! - and it should not in any way be used by ELSTAT or anyone for any reason that cheers him up. Articles 5 to 8 concern the coils of the Financial Stability Fund, the largest criminal organisation that has been in existence, a legal person governed by private law, but who has been housed with tens of millions of euros from the Greek state, borrowed and given to them to give them to banks, to bankrupt and we have a vicious cycle of destruction. You put one condition and say that the Ministry of Finance can veto in the event of inconsistent sales of bank shares. You admit that what has happened so far has been a trembling scandal and so far they are all unpunished. We are talking about the HFSF, which has a Euro-State character now, since all its assets - not its own, are the assets, which you gave them, the dowry - will be transferred to an independent body, distinct from the legal person of the Greek State. Take the egg and cut it! As for you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are holding a strong opposition, you must understand that on 14 August you voted in your knowledge the third memorandum on all the prerequisites that have come, come and will come. And because you now have your own internalities - four days are left until Sunday's elections and who will go to vote in favour of the Memorandum? - Let's see you and then what you're gonna do. But it is ironic and humiliating to say that you are cut for the good of the Greek people. You are the ones who have brought back the last five years, in the medium term, you have voted and you have not shown any pity for anyone at all. You're the one who ruled forty years and drove the country where you drove it. And now you come and ask for the change from anyone. You should at some point apologise for what you have done forty years at the expense of the Greek people. Clearly, we will vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u36	Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u37	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u39	Excuse me, Madam President, but I would ask that what the previous speaker said about '...Turkey' should be deleted from the Minutes. We have no right to talk about a country like this. Everything else is opinions. I would therefore ask that it be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u40	The ‘...’ to be deleted? Should we write "Hellenic Turkey"? But we should change it with something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u41	Please! It's your thing. What are you gonna do...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u42	This is where we're concerned about some things. I do not know what other promises we made to Turkey, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u43	What you're going to write is your thing. I'm just saying that "Turkey"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u44	You're asking! We're not asking for the deletion. If you want, do it! It is not our concern and it does not change our view of the - within introductory words - 'neighbours'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u45	All right, Mr. President. Before giving the floor to Mr. Konstantinopoulos, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-seven students and students and an educational attendant from the 1st General School of New Psych. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Constantinople, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I think there was a detailed debate on the issues involved in the bill. But today we are in plenary shortly before the vote. We consider that there are three main issues, which are not just in today's bill, but also have 'crowds'. The first is that the auctions are starting. Allow me here, Minister, to present the front page of the newspaper "AGEI" in January, which had: "Absolute protection of the first home", "No house in the hands of a banker". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned front page, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, Minister, I see a picture of you together with Mr. Katrugalo and Mr. Varoufakis in the Constitution - I do not know if you are before or after the elections, I assume before the elections - and I do not know if you are analyzing the SYRIZA programme for the auctions or you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u47	I wasn't a MP before 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u48	Yeah. I'm saying I don't know if you told these people your programme and today's proposal for a law on auctions. I'm filing that, too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I will read to you what the President of your parliamentary group said and tell you why we will apply for a roll-call vote. Addressing Members of Parliament, Alexis Tsipras stressed the great responsibility of MEPs: "We can't play hideout", stressed features. Mass auctions mean rapid devaluation of property value and probatively means huge black holes in already problematic banks. It means that the vicious cycle of internal devaluation, the devaluation of the Greek economy, has a particularly negative effect on society as a whole. We call on every Member of Parliament - and we call on every Member and every Member of Parliament! - to take responsibility for this negative outlook for the economy. That is why we are going to put the issue of roll-call voting in order to personally assume the responsibility of opening the auctions and it is not just the responsibility of the government and Mr Tsakalotou. The second issue on which we shall put a roll-call vote is the question of banks and the complete delivery of the banking system to the quartet. Ladies and gentlemen, with the current provisions of the law you are actually delivering the Greek banking system and, Minister, not only housing but also business loans. And you need to know, ladies and gentlemen, that we will shortly be talking about the restructuring of red business loans, and they will be restructured and, as the law says, they will be taken over from abroad. We're talking about an abstraction of Greek entrepreneurship. You have to take responsibility for this. You should know that through this procedure here, you have given your approval to proceed with these procedures and you have a responsibility. The third point that we are going to put to the vote is what you have now taken as a responsibility for the troika, that is to say to finish with the Greek businesses. You started with the beer for which Annell had a sensitivity. Now for wine there is no sensitivity. We hope, Minister, that you understand the mistake of the government and withdraw the order, understand the scale of the problem and withdraw the order. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, you will take responsibility for the producers in your region to vote for this provision. This provision will bring new unemployed people, will salt Greece with foreign wine, with wine from abroad. And I'm asking you, Minister, - I'm not talking about Mr. Alexiadis, because he's a man who came up late and I can't tell you, but you who didn't tell these fanatics were always with the tie, you weren't always playing left without a tie, you have a firm view, at least in the tie - this: Do you know the cost of production - you are from Crete - a litre of wine, Minister? It's up - down to 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u49	The wine?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u50	Say it here. I want you to address the Cretan people, because you are also a member of Heraklion, and you say that it is not the case. To be heard by the wine growers, to be heard by the winegrowers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u51	It's not the grape.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I understand that, there is a problem with what we say. I'll tell you everything. You, anyway, will make the grapes public. Let go of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u53	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u54	I accept the debate, Madam President. I say I want it to be heard, you who are from Crete, that it is not the cost, and it is the small cost. Go convince them the wine growers, the winegrowers. That is why, Minister, we urge you to withdraw this provision immediately and quickly, so that you do not simply amend it. On these three issues, ladies and gentlemen, you will personally assume responsibility for the provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, yesterday we made three proposals to you. Fortunately, following our proposal, the EKPIZO, which the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, had seen in the good times, came as well. I want to tell you when she last saw her in the good times, now she's not seeing her. He saw it on 21-12-2013 and EKPIZO said he needed a transitional provision - we suggested it, you did not hear it, I hope Mr Tsakalotos took it to you - to those who have applied for the Katseli law that they are not affected by these changes. Please very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u55	I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u56	You'll testify. Very well. The second proposal is in this law - even in this law which, as you know, we will not vote on - the issue of a cooperating borrower. Cooperative borrower, as I think we all understood, is whoever the bank decides to be cooperative. We suggest that you objectively classify the criteria so that the borrower is not a hostage of the bank. Realist and commercial value. Minister, I understand that he will be independent, that he has all the good will. Without objective criteria there can be no man who will come and say that the property has this value. You need to set objective criteria. As far as free trade is concerned, Minister, in a commercial capacity, I would like to tell you that there was not even the previous law. But that doesn't mean, since you're making a setup, you can't cover it. So we say that free professionals with a commercial status must be protected. Please write it very much. Mr Alexiadis, I'm sure you've brought the list today for the businessmen who used the one-week provision of the MAGP over a million dollars. I'm sure of it. Mr. Alexiadis, I want you to know that we have nothing personal with you. You didn't participate in the previous government. I don't know if you were at that time. I don't know you. I don't want you to take them personally. I saw that yesterday you took them very personally. You are the Minister of SYRIZA, this government, of SYRIZA - ANEL.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u57	And it's an honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u58	Your honor and your pride. And please bring the list today. Deposit the names of those who made use of the one-week MDG Tsipra...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u59	About the other list?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Alexiadis, the people voted for you to bring all the lists, to solve any problems the previous ones did not solve, to uncover anything, to send anyone to justice, to bring plenty of light. And we're here, if mistakes were made, to support you, to tell you how we voted for the extension. You brought the extension and voted for it. But you also brought the Secretary-General's discharge. In other words, if it is not possible to complete all cases that it has no responsibility. And on his own criteria, your Secretary-General, the one you are going to appoint, will decide without any criteria on whom and who will control. Mr. Alexiadis, these are old tricks, which they didn't succeed. Don't do it again. You will allow me to finish with the traffic charges, the "no stone stands" that you said yesterday and the recapitalisation that ended yesterday. Mr. Alexiadis, we're not going to raise a stone. Our political culture has no precollects, no stones, no bars, nothing to do with what your sidelines have done and the members of your resignation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. We are in favour of dialogue, democracy and we will support arguments, disagreement or agreement, each proposal. We won't follow you on these roads. Also, Minister, the provision on the traffic charges that Mr Chironis has signed? Because from an economist - as an alternative, I see him as an economist la card. Does he charge old cars more than new traffic, or is that above all his Ministry, like Mr. Kammenos, above ecology and transparency? I'm glad Mr. Chakalotos is here. Another point I would like to make is that yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the recapitalisation of Eurobank was closed. I'm not an economist. Do you know what honor? With 0.01. Mr Tsakaloto, do you remember at what price did the previous government close the previous recapitalisation made by the German germans? What honor? 0,33.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u61	Before the memorials, how long was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u62	Last year the banks were worth 25 billion, and now they have 2 billion. Before the memorials, you were all PASOK, sir. There was no one before the memorials. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, not all of you - these Members who were PASOK and who were gone and who came to you, why were the measures hard, today they tell you whether they are even embarrassed to vote for these measures, why have they no other party to go?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u63	And nobody gets them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u64	Because nobody gets them! Ladies and gentlemen, I am ending what I said yesterday. The government and the Prime Minister may not be the first Prime Minister to lodge a wreath at the Polytechnic, but you are the first government and the first Prime Minister to release mass auctions in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, if there are such speakers before, and you want to attack the government, you can't. At PASOK you want to "press" again, because they are unrepentant in defending the needs of capital and capitalists. The only pain he caught was what will happen with red business loans and what capitalist hands will end up with. But I won't get carried away. We will oppose the government, because in its policy it essentially serves the needs of capital and sacrifices the satisfaction of the people's needs. It follows the same policy as the previous governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK. So, with this bill, we have a new wave of prerequisites, we have a new escalation of the anti-population attack, we have a new episode of authoritarianity in terms of the discussion process, the urgency, which is being discussed in this multi-project, precisely so as not to be able to discuss the substance and all of the problems, not to highlight the thread that connects all these measures to the overall policy and which serves all of them, in order to understand the size of the anti-popular attack. In the short time available to us, we will be confined to central issues. The central issue of this draft law of prerequisites is the management of the red loans from households. In the case of red business loans, there is a huge disparity of interest. That's a fact. You don't treat it at this stage, but you said you'd bring it to the next phase. There is this huge dispute of interest, because it concerns the issue of capitalist ownership and the control of monopolistic and business groups by extension. But let us come to the issue of today's bill. This management of red loans, Mr. Ministers, for what purpose? Is these measures meant to alleviate the overdue public households or to reorganise the banking system’s portfolio, as part of the overall recapitalisation process? That is the basic question, and that is what you need to answer clearly. To give a clear answer, let us see what these provisions include. These are the provisions of Article 14, as has now been renumbered, which substantially amend the Katseli Act. We had criticised it and had not voted as a JRC at the time, because it really did not protect the first residence as a whole - it was not a solution - but it basically turned the highly indebted people's households of the financial system into hostages. It even enabled auctions, divestments of any real estate assets, to protect their first residence. That is why we did not vote for it. Now what are you doing with the bill? Are you improving these minimum conditions? We say no, you don't improve them, you undo them worse. With regard to the conditions of accession, who can be incorporated into the Katseli Act? You make them worse and you put four cumulative conditions, which if any of these four things doesn't exist, can be thrown out. There is, therefore, the first condition that this property serves as a main residence. There is the second for monthly family income, which is specified in particular, in a specific way. Thirdly, the objective value of the main residence, which is low on the substance, is to reduce it even further, as you reduce income criteria. And fourth condition, you add a new term, which was not there. The debtor says, he must have been cooperative with the banks within the meaning of the Code of Conduct. Of course here and here New Democracy and PASOK are hypocritically talking about this Code of Conduct, which is the work of their own government. On 27 August 2014, it was published in the Government Journal of the European Communities. He puts in who the banks consider to be a cooperating borrower. They consider the submissive to be, and indeed must be, the first time his loan became red over time. Let this be five, six, seven years ago, as long as this is it. And it must be excellent cooperation, based on the criteria of the banks. If it does not have that attribute, it cannot be included in the specific arrangements. Do you know too many to have these features of the cooperating borrower? Is this criterion subjective, who is considered a cooperative borrower? If there is no such feature, it is not part of it and let it have all the rest. It is therefore a subjective criterion, which turned it into a hostage of banks, based on a later code, which also acts retrospectively on whether or not one can join. If this is not the end of irrationality and management for the benefit of the financial system, then why did you put it? To protect who? That is the first issue. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, takes over the President's seat.]] Second matter. Any decision taken by the court must have such an effect, so that creditors - the banks, that is - do not find themselves in a worse economic position than the one they would have been in the event of enforcement. In other words, if the banks were to be forced to auction the first house, the arrangement would have better effect than it would have if it were to be auctioned. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u67	No worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u68	No worse than the auction. So who are you working for? For the banks. Since they will have better results with this arrangement than if they were to be auctioned. Banks are served at the expense of the debtor, because the debtor has to pay this particular category of arrangement and no one else. Thirdly, you make the Bank of Greece responsible for issuing, says, the guidelines that will be taken into account in determining the maximum repayment capacity of the debtor. In other words, each household's cannabis will be the Bank of Greece, which, with its objective, is supposed to determine the maximum repayment capacity for all debtors. "Yiannis is buying, Yiannis drinks", that is, in this particular case. Fourthly, which is here, which is even worse than the previous ones and is challenging. It says: If, during this arrangement, the debtor manages to sell his main home - this property protected by the auction - and from this sale the amount he will receive is higher - than the price that creditors would receive in the event of forced execution - that is to say, the house will sell more than the banks would sell in the auction - then this extra money will not go to his pocket to relieve this household, but will be shared with the bank. Half the bank and half the debtor. Where did that sound? Where'd that sound again? Where did you see it? Moreover, you are up to thirty-five years! He's a hostage! It cannot be exempted from this arrangement. In fact, it has an obligation to improve its financial data, to make it known directly to the banks to change the repayment terms. Of course, there are also some issues, some legislative improvements that you have made in relation to the former regime. Example: on page 46, as is numbered here, it says, ‘Article 5(4) of the Katseli Act is replaced by the following...’. What did you replace? You're missing a word. Who? The word'substantially'. You say, ‘If the debtor is delaying payment’. So if, for reasons of force majesty, this man cannot pay, you put him on the same fate as the one with his responsibility, his fault, he is late to pay. But is this possible for the whole world and without any excuse? And that word, the word'substantially', you remove it three times in another three provisions. Who are you protecting in this way? The one who really cannot, who for reasons of force majeure cannot pay and delays or banks? But the banks! For all this and other things we could say a lot. For example, in the second category, the 25% you're protecting, what do you say? You say the state will contribute the rest of the dose. In other words, the banks will be paid for. With the taxpayer's guts, you'll pay the banks. That's what you're doing. State funding, therefore, in this part of the dose that cannot be paid to the poorest people's households, will be borne by the rest of the taxpayers. You're going to convert a kind of social automation at the end with this provision. I mean, the banks won't lose. On the contrary, they will be won, far more won than they were with the Katselis law. So he wants a lot of discussion and philosophy about who is gaining from this law, from these changes that you make? Only the banks! And banks are still hostages of debtd households. This is how you facilitate the recapitalisation of the financial system and therefore withdrew Article 9 on deferral of taxation. Thus, in conclusion, with the changes you make, you remove any insufficient measures provided for in the Law on the Protection of First Housing, you give the opportunity to liberate the auctions, facilitate the management and transfer of red loans to distress funds possibly and help to exalt the financial sizes of the financial system. So on the opposite side of this policy, which is similar to the rest of the parties - because that is what is of interest to all of you, how the banks - as far as the management of the red loans is concerned, is the proposal for a law of the JRC, which responds to the needs of the highly indebted households - and not only the households, but also the professional loans, livestock and rural loans - in which we are talking about a haircut not only of interest and of the capital that has been rebuilt, but also part of the capital, because they really cannot pay back and a period of grace and non-attackment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will end in a couple of minutes, if I may. In this respect, therefore, you dare say nothing about the JRC's proposal for a law. Of course, there are other provisions in the bill, such as the wine tax. And this is a very important part of the nutritional needs of the Greek family, that is, a species that meets its nutritional needs. Who's gonna pay this extra tax to the wine? The poor, the populace. And it is hypocritical that the rest of them, when they have accepted the new common agricultural policy on wine-making, which allows for the introduction of wine and must into Greece and the involvement of must. And now the New Democracy and the PASOK talk about Greek wine, when the winegrowers cannot sell their wine or take the grape free from the large wine companies. What, then, can you protect and what can you say? You come out hypocritically and you say the first place. But here you've gone mad at HISPIDA and the taxes! You didn't protect the first residence. You have maintained the hostage status that SYRIZA is dealing with in this particular way. Regarding unrealistic rents: Where do you drive with the arrangement for unrealistic rents? You lead to having recourse to the courts and going into extermination of what is being delayed. So there's gonna be a wave of evictions, a wave of appeals in the courts to get the discharge that they haven't paid? Also, for the traffic charges: Mr Alexiadis - who is missing now - said yesterday: 'What is EUR 20 or 30 to charge for the traffic charges?' Is that what they told him? What is 20 or 30 euros? Aren't we going to see it cumulatively? The rest of the measures, like 50 minutes in the liter of the wine, are nothing? It's nothing with that logic. But put all this together! The new burden therefore has a final recipient of EUR 13 million, as is the red loan arrangement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So the tough negotiation took place for the needs of the monopolistic groups. On this basis you sacrifice the people's needs for their satisfaction and continue the same policy of the previous governments. In fact, the students, the current rulers, became better than the teachers! The setting of 100 doses combined with the act of legislative content confirms and who you served at the bottom of the scripture. In this respect, then, caging should not be between Scylla and Harybden. Today and after the strike on 12 November and the great mobilisation of the working class and our people, it makes the JRC's proposal for organising the struggle more realistic, necessary and up-to-date, for more overall ruptures and overthrows. We shall vote for both the roll-call vote and for these articles on wine, for the first place and for the issue of the hundreds of doses. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Theochari, you have the floor. I would ask you to keep up with the time, because Members also want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u70	You're right. I'll make every effort to be in time. I thought the property was a bad thing for the JRC. Is property protection the problem that burns it? Maybe I don't know these ideological issues so well. One request, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Stop eating every word you've evoked as Opposition and you've legislated as a government! Stop constantly doing the opposite of what you said and what you did the first time! Half the articles change your laws. Half of what we're voting on! Where's the earthquake? Isn't that what you promised? When we said you couldn't afford the man who's got money, you said there weren't any of them. All Greeks were in need and all had to be protected. Now Mr. Santorinios remembered the villas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u71	We weren't talking about villas, Mr. Theochari. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u72	'No home', you said, Mr. Santorinier. None! And that meant the villas. So you're not mocking people with words toys. Stop it! You said: 'No house in the hand of a banker'! When we said that other interests of the citizen who are at risk of poverty, other than those who are just having a hard time, but what is asking for a loan to build his home, other than the taxpayer who keeps putting money out of his pocket and others of the depositor who doesn't want his money to be laundered, you only talked about the needs of the borrower who should have given him the loans, as well as the debt cut, which you forgot. May I remind you of the many statements of sedition? Pamballs! For everyone and everything! Resentment for everyone and everything! And what do we see in this bill you bring? I don't see the protection of housing loans from the funds. Didn't the Prime Minister promise her the other day? I see nothing about business or small business loans. If the first homes are lost, that's not where we're going? Are these first homes in the second category? I see no protection after 2018. In their luck, the houses from there on. What do you think? Doing what you promised? Are you happy? I don't see speed in the process. Are we going to timeless procedures again five, ten years old? Do you want this to be time-consuming, to come to the new civil service offices you set up, as reported by "The Step of Sunday" and "TA NEW" on Monday? It's a big deal. It's a big deal and it's not saved, because it's supposedly unleashed newspapers tell their journalists, "for us this thing doesn't exist" and "depress" anyone who goes to write. Is that the new morality?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u73	Do you accept that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u74	You're like a media beamer!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u75	You must respond directly to the complaints and questions raised by Mr.Avgarians in his question, because you seem to be the best government in postmulsion!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u76	You're like a slandering liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u77	You lied, as they said before, but more and more persuasive and you failed faster and with no remorse! You make ruffles like old, but more professionally, with offices, buying and coffee, hang out on a date, you have and welcome, you appoint friends, relatives and "partners", as you used to! But now you do it systematically, zealously and without bright exceptions!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u78	Did you write it down? Congratulations! You're the best slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u79	It hurts you, yes! It hurts you that you're all alone, that you're worse! [[Noise in the Chamber]] At least you're effective? Is the state working? Dissolution picture everywhere! Confiscations of the payroll of the hospital in Thessaloniki, Papageorgiou! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Problems with issuing the licenses, with the license plates, with the Ministry of Transport's system, as Mrs Durou denounces! Public IEK in paralysis and more and more! You'll hear them! Don't worry. You'll hear them! No matter how much the truth hurts, you will hear it! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yesterday the banks were sold out! Yesterday the banks humiliated themselves! Piraeus was estimated at 18 million. The total banking system - all four systemic banks - was estimated at 750 million. Eurobank's 1 minute stock! And foreign funds are immediately earned from the difference in the unit tableau that has 0.024. They've won since the first day! There are 40 billion of the FFS and 18 billion of the reserves that were in existence before the banks were recapitalised. Why? Because you can't help it. You ruined the economy! The testimonies are gone! Red loans increased, you closed the banks from above! You did not negotiate quickly, you did not have the 10 billion at a time and therefore your hands were tied. If you were in opposition now, we'd be hearing bugs about the bank sale and so on. We're told by Mr. Santorini's bill. Really? Is that a tax on wine? Retire him, I'm doing a parentheses. Not cut him in half as you plan, but withdraw him! The 40 minutes - by the way - also have VAT. It is 50 minutes, and there is 23% VAT on excise duty. It's 50 minutes, not 40, for making fun of the world. Travelling 13 million extra traffic charges? Is the clawback, which unfairly hits lawmakers and rewards thieves? What about that classic? It's classic that you leave the illegal bet and tax evasion to the unavoidable, and you only put legal tax? None of this is classic. It's all toxic! SYRIZA is toxic! You are toxic to Greek businesses! One, one, you hit them. You're toxic to workers. You're toxic to the unemployed. You are toxic and teary for farmers, who were not ashamed and sprayed yesterday with tear gas. The Annells are right after all. They're spraying us! [[Applause from the river wing]] 'And what do you propose?' you tell us. ‘You are all critical’. It's true. We're criticizing as a debt. But we also have proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u80	Who are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u81	We have done them to you: Protection of first residence as a social asset when it is the only asset, regardless of whether the loan is residential or business. Speed in the process, not with the decades of delay that we have so far. Different options so that the borrower can choose what to do. Split loans. Frozen or frozen. Exemption through the renouncement of the property. Long periods of grace and prolongations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u82	You were Secretary General of Income. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u83	And in the equivalents we constantly make proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u84	With what money?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u85	Tax the illegal gambling. There's a lot of money in the illegal gambling. That's the money. The tax we lose every year is over 500 million. Put VAT on the ELTAs as well. Not to universal service, not to citizens' letters, but to business letters. You can only get 100 million from there, with this taxation and above all you will let competition work better. Put a burger on the transporters. Today only Greek transporters pay with signs. We built Ennatia with the Greek people's money and we have made guys from the Turkish transporters who use our own infrastructure for free, they go from Hevros to Italy for free! That's right. Two thousand Turkish carriers enter the day and Turkey has become a number one transport force in Europe. Two thousand Turks come in, you're transporting a day. Charge the burgers 50 euros a week - two days they're always sitting - and you're going to receive 100,000 euros a day. Bulgarian and Skopje transporters come in, unload their illegals, and then they sit 15 days waiting to see what they get from production. So charge them 100 euros. Whether they're leaving empty, quiet and allow the Greek carrier to operate, or at least they'll pay for something while they're staying. More than fifty thousand trucks from Greek carriers have Bulgarian plates. Why would they be free to pay the traffic charges? They're the cat for free? Have them pay 2,500 euros a year. That's the equivalent. Over thirty million will get you. Everywhere, in each country - Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany - there is a burglary. This is what it means "focusing on Greek entrepreneurship and helping it", not unfairly, but also by strengthening fair competition and helping the Greek businessman. That is what it means 'I have a plan'. No, I don't know what taxes I'll be voting on this morning. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to vote on tonight? Tell me. We have an urgent bill. What tax will you put on the Greek people tonight? Say it. You don't know. That's not a government! It's a joke! Ladies and gentlemen, you've been ruling almost a year. Do you understand that? And you know what they're saying? "The thief and the liar in the first year rejoice." Rejoice him. It's your first time. You don't have anyone else! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u88	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, because there are political issues and because we as parliamentarians want to speak, we wonder when the Minister will speak. I would ask Mr Tsakalotos to tell us now whether he will take the floor by waiting for eight speakers or immediately after the end of the rapporteurs. Because, Mr President, there are political facts. We are listening, we read that a SYRIZA Member is forced to resign because he does not want to vote on the draft law. If that is the case, we have the right as parliamentary representatives to place ourselves politically. We have lived five years of crisis, Mr President. You've lived it yourself. If a Member of Parliament is pushing not to vote, this is about democracy as long as Fantis has the retsinodo. I would therefore like to know when Mr Tsakalots will speak in order to bring us in line with the other parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u90	The Bureau has spoken with Mr Tsakalotos. The Minister will speak immediately after the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start a little subversive. I will submit to the Minutes - unfortunately in English - a report and I would ask colleagues to pay attention, because it is extremely important. In his statement yesterday, Mr Juncker made a proposal for a Europe officially two speeds. Mr Juncker's proposal for a two-speed Europe is now: Europe recognises that some structural measures and some regulations and directives, which come out for everyone, cannot be followed at the same pace, at the same time and in the same way as all the Member States currently in existence in the European Union. They are the nineteen members of the Eurozone plus the new members present in the programme for its extension. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is excellent that we all read it because, because it is new yesterday, perhaps the government and the opposition and we as parliamentarians should be able to see that the discussions we are having about the Greek economy, the measures that we are going through, the suggestions we make, are also under this light. And perhaps, Minister, Mr Tsakaloto, it may be a good opportunity to put it at the negotiating table, if we are going to have a second formal speed of implementation of structural measures and other measures, since the President of the Commission has made this suggestion. This would very much help the Greek economy to make progress in a reasonable, fast, sustainable and relatively effective manner, in the context of the current situation in the Greek economy on 19 November. Because it is not possible for the measures we ask this House to be implemented by the Greek economy, by the Greek family, but also by Greek businesses, to come and implement in times that may be unacceptable, economically speaking and not politically. I think that if they give us a margin - at least time - and since we are all wise and have the restructuring of the whole state as a priority, so that we become competitive, but also have a normal economy and a normal country, we will, from now on, be able to find easier solutions to how our economy will become more competitive and to find jobs for the unemployed. As Independent Greeks, we made a suggestion yesterday to a subject that existed. I live in the proposal of the Minister, Mr Alexiades, who said he would study the question of winemakers and wines. There was a possible intention to withdraw this article and come back to a week, since we are all discussing some alternatives to financing this gap, which - from what I know, the figures I have seen - are a little unclear about its revenue and the assumptions of its calculation. We will see until the end of the vote how the whole debate will go. It is not possible for an economy such as the Greek one, in the situation received by the Government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks in February, with some 80 billion red loans, business and natural persons, to check that it saves the banks today. As Mr. Theocharis said, it's just numbers to see them on a board. We have put 50 billion in the recapitalisation of the banks, and they have been dismantled, because in the last five years we have created in the same banks 80 billion red loans, which have frozen capital or more of them in the liabilities, and at the same time we have cut the assets by 38 billion in 2012 from the bonds of the Greek State. Who is responsible and who has to give a solution today, I think it is obvious and obvious. We should all find a solution together, not to criticise a government, which is eight months struggling to find solutions to a cumulative and unresolved problem. As I said yesterday, the Independent Greeks - and because I have personal experience, if you want, with my involvement in auctioning situations of the last two or three years - will not allow, especially in vulnerable groups, families below the income criteria or with poverty incomes, on the basis of any of these agencies, or with a monthly income that is the minimum for decent living, to lose any Greek home in which he and his family live. I will make a proposal here to Minister Alexiadis, and Mr Tsakalots is here to see her, in relation to the marks and the tax on cars we talked about yesterday. I would ask that we take special care of the tents and people with special competences. There are multitudes who have had to have large cars over two thousand cubic metres to fit a six-member or seven-member family, which is currently forced to pay 700 and 800 euros of traffic charges. I think it's antisocial. The state must help the multitude family in a variety of ways, as it does, and with tax exemptions and with many other incentives, but for the car and the drive, because there are not so many families, I would like, please, to see a discount. I'd suggest up to 50%. Because we economists know that Greece's problem is also demographic. If these people are making suppress and we take the car, because it will not be possible for the tenants to give 800 euros a year and they will have to change their car with a smaller one, it will not be possible for many reasons to move the family. I would like to see the same thing for people with special abilities who have special cars, which are expensive and unfortunately also great cubicism, because they do not come out in small cubic order. There is a special concern to reduce at least 50% of traffic charges. It could have been zeroed if we found the equivalent. I think it is incomprehensible for a state to see as tax revenue the multitude's car, which supports the Greek family from the economy, jobs, the Army, and not to say now that it is also part of the great unemployment we have, because there is also a huge unemployment. I would like to see it together, and I would also like the Minister to make a relevant report, if he thinks about it, and when we have to do it. In order for a state to function properly, we should all be aware and I will read to you - because many of us do not know it - what a cooperating borrower means. I fully agree that it is a definition that has been given by the Bank of Greece and is defined by specific rules. You will allow me to read it to you for a minute, and I will leave the text in the Minutes, so that we can all read it, so that we can be aware of what a cooperating borrower means. I read the basics: "It provides complete and up-to-date contact information to creditors or anyone acting legally on their behalf. Secondly, it is available in contact with the lender or whoever acts legally on his behalf. It shall, in person or through its representative, make full and sincere disclosure of information to the lender or anyone acting legally on his behalf. It shall, in person or through its representative, make full and sincere disclosure of information to the lender or anyone acting on its behalf which has a significant impact on its future financial situation. Finally, he consents to clarify an alternative restructuring proposal with the lender or anyone legally acting on his behalf." It exists in the Code of Conduct on n.4224/2013. I have an FEK, too. Download Bank Ethics Code and see and who's the co-operating borrower. It makes sense. We're not taking anyone's side. We're taking the side of the law. You can also read the V.T.I. I'm going to testify. I think it's the right FEC. I did it a little quick, and I didn't have time to see if it was the right FEK for the return I'm doing. If it's wrong, we'll find the right FEK mentioned in the text on n.4224/2013. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Code of Conduct for Banks protects - because some will see it as a joke - the borrower, because he says how the bank, the bank clerk and we all need to know it. The mistake in this society is that there is no clarity about the rights of borrowers. The borrower, if he knows and goes to the bank, as the Communications Code says in the last part, and knows the Code of Conduct of Banks, cannot any bank employee in any branch treating him as abusive or suggesting things that are outside the Code of Conduct or treat him in an inappropriate way or offend him on a personal or corporate level. It's forbidden by the Code of Conduct. It is the responsibility of all of us and because these bills are coming, and the world is going to have a conciliation with the banks, the one that falls under the criteria for entering into the arrangements for the first residence, we should all know and give people the Code of Conduct, because this code protects them. As we say in English, the Code of Contact is a part of it, namely the Communications Code with the bank, how the bank should communicate with the borrower and not the other way round. It's for his protection. I'll get some medicine. As I knew it abroad, there have been crimes in Greece. Over the last forty years we have known that public rodents have fallen specifically on the health system and have smashed it. The expenses were unbelievable. They had reached 10 billion euros, perhaps even more, which were completely figurative, with overpricings, plus the hatred of doctors, nurses, at all levels of medical science. I will make a proposal here, and I will make a statement, if you like something more official next week. We had done a study before, when I was abroad, about which state has the best body, who can give fat drugs not only to himself, but also to other countries. This, then, is the National Health Services and Health Services System in England, Great Britain, the National Health Service and System. In this system a country can go and take its medicine to a tenth of the value it takes today or introduces it itself. If that state sometimes wants to get the intermediaries out of the middle, French, Swiss, German or any company, imported expensive medicines and take the prices, which are in the British system, if you want or have it as a bench mark, as good pricing practice, so that we can negotiate better, there are many ways to do it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. Thank you. I would suggest and will bring the proposal to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance - because they are co-responsible with the Ministries - to get to the British Health System, to see what proposal it will make us all of the needs of raw materials to medicines for the Greek Health System, and I am sure we will find a discount on today's prices of over 30% to 40%. It is a sum which reaches 400 million in revenue, which we can use elsewhere. Finally, let's see the online bet. As I have promised, however, I will bring you next week and this report, which I am finishing, with an analysis of the cigarettes and the black bet in Greece and the money laundering done through the online bet by electronic games, which do not pass the tax control of the Greek authorities. There are many companies - and here we need to open up the game a little - who are hostages, as were the companies with the frequencies in the media. There's a problem with betting companies. We'll either give them permission or we won't. At the moment you need to know that there are foreshadowed revenues and funds from the Greek banking system. They don't have permission. If we give them permission, it will pass through the banking system at least one billion a year and remain within it as a guarantee of profit. I'm telling you that just like that. Secondly, if a player wins today, the money should go to the Cayman Islands, the Netherlands, and find it hard to end up in an agency, in an illegal way, in order to collect them, a player who has played poker or played a bet or played horses or has played ducks. This, when we fix it...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u94	Please finish, Mr. Cammene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u95	I'm sorry, it's important and I'll be done, Mr. President. If we streamline this - and there are ways - the revenues for the Greek public are incredible. We just need to get into a normality and legality. Know that these people and these companies are unable to pay taxes in Greece. No VAT or tax office is recognised. All this I will bring to a proposal next week, to see and beg you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for your tolerance - to be tolerant, because we are in constant negotiation. There are some issues in this bill, but I believe that with good faith and assistance we will be able to save the lot, get the recapitalisation money back on the market and calm this situation down to stability on Monday - Tuesday and then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Cammene. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "The Workshop of Democracy", organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-two students and two teachers from the 2nd Kerate Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform the House of the resignation letter from the Member, Mr Gabriel Sakellaridis. "To the President of the Greek Parliament. Mr President, in my letter I would like to announce my resignation from the parliamentary office and ask you to initiate my replacement procedures. Yours sincerely, Gabriel Sakellaridis’ It's being filed in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u97	Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the first losses are evident. Already, through the Group of the European People's Party itself, there are reactions to the bills you are bringing us to sign. Two will be the main axes of my position. I have chosen them, and I consider them to be the most important points for the current draft law on the economic and social problems of our country. The first is the insurance issue with outstanding debts and their regulation, and the second is of course the issue of overdue households and, by extension, auctions. You are now coming to amend the provisions of the law that you have amended a minimum period of time. This clearly proves the sluggishness, conscientiousness and the lack of substantial study of the draft laws. In other words, you are bringing us drafts for the vote once again in the urgent procedure, so that the proposed amendments, the real dialogue and, above all, the legal security of citizens cannot be studied. Citizens literally do not know what is expected tomorrow. They are unable to make any financial planning and are once again ballots of your decisions. For example, I mention Mr von Wogau. 4221/2015, which you bring to amendment and you amended with effect for 17-10-2015 just one to two months ago. Those changes consist of dealing with the new debts, which must be repaid within their legal deadline for payment with a period of approximately seven months, from 15-12-2015 to 30-6-2016, and will also give them a 30-day period to pay them back. Then, with effect from 1 January 2017, even tougher measures are coming to our citizens, who will lose the arrangement, if they do not repay the new debts and if they have not elapsed in six months since their previous late debt. This means that the original vote on Mr von Wogau's. 4321/2015 favoured once again the havings, those who were able to pay some money and did not do so by choice, waiting for arrangements for a one-off payment. On the other hand, you do not at all favour those who fight day-night to save their business, looking forward to the growth of the Greek economy and hence their survival. Those who want to be regulated may be in some cases malpractices, but the vast majority of cases are people who do not have to pay, small and medium-sized enterprises and free professionals, who continue their economic activity with the hope of economic development for our country, are people who are literally struggling to rescue their shops, which are becoming increasingly closed, causing an even greater increase in the rate of unemployment and, of course, an even greater hole in our insurance funds. It is unreasonable to lose all their settlement of debts if they lose the deadline for their current obligation, even in the short periods of time you give them until the end of 2017. You have to find a way to integrate their current obligations into all their financial outstandings. On this basis, you must apply a more comprehensive calculation algorithm when and under what conditions will the benefits of regulation be lost. With this rough law at the moment, it is practically assumed that at the moment a professional comes to the insurance sector to regulate his dose, he has already solved his financial problem and his business is blooming. But that's not the way it is. You are thinking with a public employee culture to solve a problem of the private sector, which produces money from scratch and which does not know what dawnes on it. The small and medium-sized businessman is at the forefront of a problem economy and, in particular, a repetitive policy for promoting old-fashioned approaches affecting the private sector and leaving the public sector substantially unaffected. If some time ago an average entrepreneur, a freelance professional was unable to pay his insurance contributions smoothly, now that things have deteriorated, the objective weakness is the least certain. Besides, what are you afraid of? Didn't he in the end pay? Mr Tsipras confessed to us some time ago that we will be running at growth rates from the beginning of next year. Is it possible that we don't believe him? Is it possible for the Greek Prime Minister to say so sloppy? The proposal from the Central Association - since we are all looking for equivalents - has been well known for a long time. If you don't remember her, we'll see you again. An equivalent should be immediately integrated into all pensions in one which will not exceed EUR 1,500. Sponsors over EUR 1,500 in this period of collapse of the insurance system are unacceptable to maintain their privileges to the detriment of the rest of the unemployed and the low pensioners. We're talking about three hundred and fifty thousand people. If you make this reform, which is entirely in line with your left ideology, then there is absolutely no need for a stress on the viability of the insurance system. You have to agree that social security is indeed social and is not a piggyback that breaks it anytime. Beneficiaries must sacrifice part of their incomes for the weaker social strata. If you don't want to go in this direction, then you admit that social security is nothing but an individual pigeon, what everyone has given, so much will get. Even in the health sector, in this case, as long as you insist on this socially unacceptable position, we have to suggest that: Separate directly the debts to the OSCE and the other professional funds, in the areas of pensions and health for professionals who have difficulty and inability to pay from 2009 onwards. Delete debts to the OAU and other professional funds in the fields of health. And that's why? Simply, in the vast majority of cases the OAU and the other professional funds have charged charges for services that have never been provided. In fact, in several cases and for various reasons, they exclude insured persons from hospital treatment and other health benefits. Well, if this is the case, though you are dealing with social security as an individual pigeon, delete the health sector debts to debtors to whom you have never provided any health services. You do not mean to protect your own children from royal pensions and on the other hand to close the small and medium-sized private shop because they lost the current dose of the month. Do you really remember how much PPC staff insurance funds are subsidized each year? Is it 600,000,000 or not? You know, math. Put them down and you will see that right now consciously and criminally shrink the private sector so that you can undisturbedly establish your party state. Right now that we are talking about having a hard worker in the private sector, such as an electrician, who is struggling every day to keep his shop open and to pay his two-month insurance contributions of EUR 800-900. And all this because? To get a pension of 600 euros, when and when, and without receiving any insurance in the future. At the same time, you have a corresponding electrician - your "client" - PPC, who takes three times the net income and is expected to receive a pension five times as much as the private person. What's their difference? It's obvious. The CPO official will vote for you again, while the individual is not part of your client's account. You have reached the edge of the cliff, we fall and nothing has changed since the sad mentality of the last decades. And the banks are closed, and the houses of the borrowers will be sold to your own professedly strong bankers' group, and the country has been promised for decades. And that for what? To maintain power through your client system at any cost to the rest. Your team is having a good time and the rest of you can continue to live in a second, subordinate Greece. And now with the auctions you come to give the final hit to the borrowers. To recapitalise the banks and to proceed with the programme you have agreed, it is obviously necessary to clear the landscape from toxic red housing loans, which have reached four hundred thousand. According to what we are reading, direct protection against auctions does not concern more than 25% - 30% of these borrowers. I imagine you understand the social upheaval you are causing with this provision, which is adding to the change in the Code of Civil Procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me to continue for two minutes. I've never abused my time. So please have some tolerance. There, then, we have a change in the process of enforced execution by the confiscation and within eight months, set by the auctioning of real estate, and at less natural cost for the banking procedures. They literally look forward to the 1st of January 2016 and the law enters into force. Do you understand what will happen in September 2016? Do you realize how many people will come out? Do you want to quintle the number of suicides?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u99	Where'd you get all those lies?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u100	And I ask you this: at the beginning of the year, when the country's rule came into your hands, did you not understand that? Did you think that creative ambiguities, the demonstration of disgrace and enthusiasm to the Eurozone partners were negotiating tools and led the country to growth and prosperity? When the rest of the Eurozone finance ministers along with our Cypriot brothers were begging you to send them specific corrective proposals, you were talking about "Europe of the peoples", about solidarity, German compensation and burdensome debts. This shadow theatre, this supreme ridicule you have reserved for this afflicted country has reached us in this tragic spot, with the back on the wall and without any negotiating paper. Now, gentlemen, you learn that the negotiation is done in practice, with evidence and with action plans and not with academic, incoherent reasons, and with intelligent ones. There's no excuse for that. Whether you are irresponsible and impatient, therefore unsuitable for governance, or consciously seek to bring Grexit as a natural consequence of the deadlock to which you have reached us. And if you have as candy the argument that your people prefer this has already begun to collapse. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for the time. The 20% proportion of the population that has preferred you is increasingly shrinking. You are the government of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipality program. Development will not come in 2016, as you expect. Development has been divorced with our country, with a horizon of reconnection or reappearance from 2020 onwards. You've submerged the country in an economic middle ages. From this middle ages only the voice of reason, only the voice of the democratic, liberal centre can get us out. We haven't said our last word yet. So we reserve until all the speeches are completed to see all the amendments and we will be in the vote time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Georgiades. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the 41st Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister of Finance, Mr. Chakalotos, has the floor for thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, it was heard by Mr Theocharis, but also by many others that we did not negotiate at all. Let me give you three examples of where we were and where we are. Last Sunday the final decision of the Quartet was that the protection will only cover 25%, that was the final offer. They told us that red housing loans are of enormous importance to the recapitalisation and cannot go beyond that. In the summer the pressure was for Grexit, now in the fall, it was for recapitalisation. And we've brought a bill that has two belts, and 25% and 60%, which I'll talk to afterwards. Three days ago, for the hundred instalments in Article 4, the quartet line was that one day if you lose a new tax obligation, whether it's HPAI or an income tax, you lose 100 instalments, and regardless of this you have no right to enter any other arrangement of 12 instalments. Now, right now, after we negotiated very hard, that's not there. There will be a gradual reduction in the time that this punishment can take place. And we're doing this because we've explained to them that people don't have money or they don't have cash, because they're owed by someone else who doesn't pay in time, so the one who doesn't pays in time is because he owes him someone else who doesn't pay in time, and that's why we negotiated on it. In Article 12 for unrelenting rents, once again, the institutions were vague and we negotiated that there should be a specific tax code for all these rents that no one has collected and only taxed when they get them. I can say a lot of other examples, but these three give you the impression that what Mr Theocharis said is not working at all and there was a very tough negotiation in which we won things and lost things, as one would imagine. I now go to the main point where there is a differentiation, which is about the Katseli law and how we have changed it. I'm going to the wider belt first, over 60%, 61%. You told us that there was no protection, you told us that the income criterion was low, that we do not know the real Greek society and much more. To get into this zone, the 1.7 that we negotiated to reach over 60%, the family income with two children is far above 35,000 euros. What was the taxable family income last year? To see who we are protecting and who we do not protect and who has a sense of Greek society and who does not have: Income up to 23 000 euros declared 85.5% of the population. Up to 29,000 euros said 90%. And up to 35,000 euros said 94%. I accept that after forty years of governance PASOK and New Democracy there is a great deal of tax evasion on income and that these numbers are a little bit stung up. I'll accept that. But don't tell me there's a dramatic change. Do not tell me that we have completely changed who can enter and we have created a new regime in which no one is protected. What about the middle classes? 94%? That's what you're saying. So we must be clear that here not only the middle classes, but also the high middle classes can enter this law. You know it, and I think the numbers I mentioned prove it to you. What security bottles do those guys have in the big belt? They have three. The first is that... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Can you then discuss this with each other, ladies and gentlemen? Thank you. The first test. If you had, for example, a house worth 100,000 euros and now its commercial value is 50,000 euros, there will be deletion in three years of EUR 50,000. And that's gonna hit the banks. There's a haircut to explain it to Mr. Karathanasopoulos. There will be a 50,000-euro haircut to the one who had a house worth 100,000 euros and now it's 50,000 euros. And he'll pay, so the bank doesn't have any more weight, based on what the bank would get if he sold the house. In other words, he could have paid 600 euros, now he can pay 400 euros. That's the first indictment. Second twinkle. The Code of Conduct that will be available from the Bank of Greece. I mean, he can go to the bank and if he had good behavior, the bank can protect him, even if he can't pay the lowest dose. That's the second test. Unless you all tell me here that you don't know anyone who's either in the hundred instalments that you're talking about, but in Katselis, who had money and doesn't pay for it. Unless you tell me there's no chance of people paying for money. Is that your position? That we should take no care of them? That we should not have hierarchies? So, what is it that you're suggesting to us in a country with a humanitarian crisis? That those who don't protect now that have this money are more important than the people who go to hospitals and hospitals, they're forbidden to deal with expensive drugs? Is that what you're saying? Are these more important? Mr President, while speaking as a colleague from New Democracy, I am noisy. It's a behavior that really impresses me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u103	I am not addressing you, Minister. I am addressing the Bureau, and I have asked to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u104	Please, Mr. Chakaloto, it was none of your business. He's talking to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u105	You should go upstairs, Mr. Colleague, get some rest, and then go talk to the Chair. Not when I talk to you in parallel with your position. I'm on it. So what's the most important thing? The humanitarian crisis, hospitals, refugees, or should we have absolute protection even to those who are not good payers? I think that what you're saying is not true. We are now going to the other zone, which is where 25% is concerned, where there is absolute protection and if they cannot pay, the state is coming to pay. Because I heard comparisons with what New Democracy and PASOK did and I want to read to you something Mr. Katinen said a year ago, on October 21, 2014, to a question by Mr. Papadimoulis, where he says what they had agreed with your government. After saying that the other measures are temporary measures, Mr.Vane concludes that in the context of the adjustment programme the Greek authorities have undertaken to draw up a coherent plan for the creation of a social security network based on income criteria for the socially weak owners of housing. That's what we agreed on. What's going on in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u106	You're the one who abolished the law of Katseli and you're celebrating already!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Hatzidakis, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u108	He says: 'Everything else is temporary and we will have this social network of protection'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u109	You're out of the question. It's completely different.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u110	So this is falling apart, too. What we're doing, you've agreed to and Mr. Catanen tells you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u111	Expose, I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u112	Yeah, yeah, you'll tell us later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Hatzidakis, please. You will then have the floor, as will your parliamentary representative. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u114	It is, however, a matter of personal concern to my colleague, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u115	Okay, but interrupt, you're not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u116	There's no staff. I explained what Mr. Catinen said and what your government had agreed. That's what I said. It's not personal. So, what's this bill doing? This bill is trying to share the burden of adjustment between the banks, which are haircuts, to borrowers who can also pay taxpayers. And don't tell me why he doesn't pay the state and the other part in the category below 25%. If this is the case, we will need even more recapitalisation that, as you can see, this recapitalisation again by the taxpayers is coming, because we have borrowed from the ESS to give the money to the CF to make the banks recapitalisation. So I think this bill is a very good deal of weight among the three players: taxpayers, borrowers and bankers. That's all about this bill. The sovereign, however, is if the government goes well with its roadmap. That's the big picture. I said - and many others have said so - that we have a roadmap that starts with the recapitalisation of banks, continues with the closure of the first assessment and ends with the debt debate. This is a concrete plan that is being carried out, at a cost, with compromises, with things that we would not like to do, but at the same time has the possibility of getting this country out of this crisis on a conditional basis. Because it is to our credit that this recapitalisation for the first time is combined with the treatment of red loans. As you will see, we have agreed a strategy for all red loans and the results will be seen in the next few weeks. It is therefore an integrated policy that seeks to liberate the compressed demand in this economy, that people can put their money back on the banks, that people can consume - the one they fear - so that investors can reinvest, so that they can then give us space and time to unfold our development strategy, which we will present to the institutions in March 2016. Mr. Dendias told us we need to discuss this differently. I hear him, but not many people in this Chamber hear you, I'm afraid, Mr. Dendia. I think that with the evidence I have presented, the expressions that have been heard here do not match. There is problematic evidence within this law, to discuss them, but that Tsipras is the prime minister of the auctions, that there is no protection, etc., these scare the world, they try to terrorize the world, they cause problems in recapitalisation and I see no one who wins from this process. I think that if you wanted to have such a debate, you should also speak to your own Members and also speak to PASOK and his own. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] For Mr. Theocharis, I have lost all hope that it can change. But because I'm well-qualified, as Harry knows, there's always hope for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u117	I would ask the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u118	Before I give the floor to the Members of Parliament who are calling for it, I would like to make one comment, without any comment being made to the Minister, of course. Since the names of the Ministers are usually mentioned by the laws of the Member States, I would like to say that, as you know, the laws are being passed by the Members - the parliamentary group that supports the Prime Minister at all, because without his approval the law does not come, and that is now also the case over time. I am referring, first of all, to the law of Peponies, which I have lived through, because it was voted immediately after the '93 elections. And then, if you'd like, the various people wanted the law to be passed at the end of the four-year period, to make the appointments of the four-year-old he started. At that time, Andreas Papandreou stood up and said: No, the law must be passed at the beginning of the four-year period, enough so far with the appointments. In other words, the Prime Minister has the floor. For example, Mr. Peponis could not come here to the House, in ignorance of Papandreou or in disagreement with Papandreou, to bring his law. It wasn't possible. He could, of course, resign if the Prime Minister disagreed. So for the same thing, I refer to Mrs Katseli's law, without being reproached for Mrs Katseli. At that time the PASOK Parliamentary Group actually called for it not to come at all, namely that the first residence should not be touched and under the pressure of the troika and, if you wish, of the parliamentary group and the Prime Minister at the time, that law was made. This law has not been made in the absence of the parliamentary group. The Group of the European People's Party has almost dissolved. The Group of the European People's Party asked that the law should not be limited, that the first residence should be guaranteed. And I say this for historical reasons, because naming the laws with the names of ministers, whether it is good law or bad law, is unfair for both the parliamentary group and the Prime Minister and for the party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, please. The Minister mentioned himself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Loverdo, he's been asking the floor for a minute. You'll follow right after you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u121	Just for a minute, to thank the Minister for believing there's hope for me too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u122	I was tenderly referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u123	Hope will be seen and the country will see, when the Minister, instead of quoted tax evasion elements, see to her a little bit. Then hope will come. However, as he said that I was amazed at the government that it is not negotiating to tell him that yesterday in committee and today, I did not say that you are not negotiating, I said that you are not bringing any results. I said you're negotiating and destroying the country. I said that you are negotiating and the result of your negotiation was not even Mr Sakellaridis, your former representative and resigned, and if you continue to negotiate that, you will not be left with a parliamentary group in the end!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, may I have the floor for twenty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u125	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u126	Because there seem to be many who want to prove that they have the talent to have an economy with the truth, Mr. Theocharis said on "Why didn't you bring us what was in the last Sunday after they didn't change at all?" I explained to you in a very specific way what changed since last Sunday. That's what you said, and that's what I said, and I think that because I'm always tender to you, you will be able to accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Loverdes has the floor and Mr Brutsi follows. The series of parliamentary representatives is in line with the order of their statement and not on the basis of the power of the parties. That's what the Rules of Procedure says to make it clear. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u128	Minister, it's a good humor, as long as you don't joke about it. The hours for the government of the country are really hard. We all have a sense of responsibility - I'm generalizing it and I'm saying it for everyone. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of Sakellaridis is changing the political data in which this debate we held yesterday. He's changing them and giving an answer to those we've asked many times: political opportunism when he's a governmentman, it's so easy? Are you taking off the mask and talking to another person in the place of what he was talking about just now in the House or outside the House, saying completely different things? Is it that easy? I was not asking myself, in the media and here, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you, if I may, of what you say politically. Politics we all say something and we're all right, but we'll never find it. I was saying, what are you thinking inside? How easy is it for you to talk about the omega? How easy is that for which you have thrown a government into making it more difficult for the people? How easy is it? And today, two months after the elections of 20 September - sometimes we think that the elections have taken place years ago, two months ago - with this draft law there is next to us - I will be making an announcement from the Bureau of Parliament - a major political issue: the former Mayor of Athens, the former government representative, who has not left...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u129	It's already announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u130	...with Mr. Lafazan and the others, the member of this parliamentary majority cannot stand it. I mean, this hundred and eighty-degree shift, not everyone can handle it, and it makes sense. That makes sense. I don't know if there are others or if they don't exist, because from the Independent Greeks, a Member says something. I don't know that. Before they manifest themselves to me, there are no facts. But, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we must take this very seriously and take it more seriously into account for you, because you raise the burden of a second self. Your second self has nothing to do with the first. In fact, some of the parliamentary majorities are calling for a long time off the record. They have a draft law that makes cuts, which imposes taxes and talks against taxes, against cuts. They speak as if there is no legislative initiative that has taken place, but as if it were in 2014, 2013, as if it were in a pre-election period. These aren't serious things. In his "Teachers" in the new rhetoric, Lucian writes, for many teachers of the time, that you must have three guns if you left the search for the truth: austere above all, courage definitely and cruelty, aggression. If you have these, you make progress. And we have lived through these, ladies and gentlemen. Now they're showing up. The question raised to the ministers is just one: since it is so good, Mr Minister of Economics, this draft law on auctions, why do you already have any losses? Are your Members unable to understand, or is there a political problem with you, with the famous 'no house in the hands of a banker'? Yesterday they were ironing it on radios, saying 'no house in the hands of owners', of course too much. But it was mentioned by those who had been mocking it like this at the outset by the Minister of Development, Mr Stathakis. Mr Stathakis said 'we protect 60%'. 40% of what is it, Mr Stathakis, that you're not protecting it? Are they scumbags? Are they crooks? Do they have a smuggling strategy for their lenders? What do they have and what do they have, which their statistics bring to more, 50%, 60% to 70%? And, as has been said by our rapporteur, Mr Constantinople, 'first time left, second time left', these are said and lost. One thing will be left: First time auctions on first homes in the days of your own government and having the legislative initiative, you and Mr Stathakis. Whatever you say, no matter what you bring, no matter what you do, and no matter what you do, no matter what you do, it does not change! Ladies and gentlemen, since you now understand why you have been in the clothes of the ministers of last five years and you see what the problems are, we have had two courses of navigation. And very nicely, Mr. Kremastinos reminded us of the debate on n. We call it the 'PASOK Law', which we are calling 'the PASOK Law'. One line of approach concerned the first section of Article 15, namely the poor people, the highly indebted households, to which the 2010 Act applied. The second front, the second section of Article 15, is mortgage loans. It's two issues, don't get confused. The first thing we've arranged for with Mr. Wilkes. 3869/2010 and we gave a breath to the highly indebted families. Some are right to say that there have also been some scientists who have benefited from the distant fairs, who have given the "stood" system of justice. Well, he's got the problem, too. The second was the postponements to the mortgage auctions for the first place, with the criteria and conditions of the law, for which we were fighting each year and the annual deferral. Those were our two fronts. We didn't lose on either of the fronts. The negotiation we made on both fronts was successful by the end of the day. Don't tell me now 'what would happen if...'. Every year we started with problems. You feel it and you live it. The National Representation will also feel it with the measures you will bring about the gaps in your budget for 2015. Every day that dawns for a minister in a country in crisis is difficult and has many unexpected times. Now you taste them yourself. So you chose to walk for five years. And you'll have the bitter glass all by yourself! Because that's how you chose from 2010. All this was known in the House. No-one is forgiven, with a lack of 'discrimination'. That is to say not to take the lead, but to understand the differences. You didn't understand them. I remember you, Minister of Finance, at this moment in time to tell us how and intensified the professors of economics will be tearing their clothes and diplomas for the economic policies that have been carried out over the years. Like you, a year in the government, you have a different route. And all those social redistribution policies you were saying about protecting citizens from the humanitarian crisis, with the lists we've given to the National Representation, we've proven that they don't stand either. You have done much less on the subject of social redistribution - the limited one - than the previous governments have done, on the basis of figures rather than what is said. So you come both the successes of the previous governments on the two fronts that I mentioned earlier about the first residence and get them back. For everyone? Oh, no. We have not lost the possibility of discrimination. For the 40% that Mr Stathakis says, or the 70% that our own numerical approaches give. For many or most. Pick and take! However, the auctions will take place, first of all, on the days of the Tsipra government! It is not just that, ladies and gentlemen, which sets up the issue of principle and the cornerstone of the whole legislative initiative. It's the largest and most famous in the world, the citizens who look at us with anguish. What forms the principle, namely, the basis of this draft law, must be voted down, at least by those who have a coherent effect on their choices and that is how we will do it. You have put the country in a vortex of finding no equivalents, whatever you get, dear colleagues, in the position of someone else is socially painful. Isn't it socially painful - at its level and at its level - to address the person who gives you some hundreds of millions of euros a year as taxes through organised and not smuggling gambling? It's if you think about the neighborhood agency. It's if you think about public finances. I am not sure, but the EUR 450 million must approach public revenue from gambling, organised, not smuggling. Is it not a first-line political problem about the excise duty on wine? Reading the layout, I don't understand how it gets in. There is too many technical problems, but this is not the time for technical problems, it is the time for political problems. What are the sectors of the economy that can boost growth in Greece? The primary sector is the first with tourism. It's five sections, it's not six, seven, eight. Then the ideas and intellectual excursions begin. The primary sector is the most basic. You've got him. As if you hate him, as if you are the MPs and the government of towns. What about the wine? I will not speak with sympathy about Greek customs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am more - so I believe at least, in your judgment - rational as a politician. But I will talk about something that concerns millions of people, about the national economy, about a live sector in the Greek economy, which did not ask you for incentives to make profits from the taxpayer's money, supposedly to mobilise business. He's mobilized already. He makes his course with great success and instead of stir him up, you go and put him a special end, unprecedented on Greek data - from what the more experienced than me, I believe - to draw on those that were created by your policy. Were there, ladies and gentlemen, at the negotiating table on the days of the previous government, the previous governments? The budgetary downhill brought these measures and it will bring the rest of them, because December is, when we are summoned to cover the holes in the budget, which are closed and covered only by measures. Why should Article 13 and Article 14 form a attractive principle of the draft law? Why? Have you created the needs to come to this House today and will you invite us to vote on them? We are voting against them in the most intense way! An experience of transferring you, if you're needed by the citizens and still listening to them. We had said we were voting...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u131	Please, Mr. Loverdo, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u132	You will give me one more minute, Mr President, for my dentistry. I won't use it. We said that the hundred doses - for which we have fought for better terms, but we have not succeeded - as they came from you, good ones are, we vote on them, but we are not voting on them. It's gone, it's over, it's back in the current draft law. I was told by a citizen who is subject to the provisions and is unable to do so: 'You have lost me as a citizen'. He said it to me now. I said to him: "But we did not give such a risky solution. The Tsipras Government gave it." He said to me: "Politicians are the same. As a citizen you have lost me." I'm the one who's going to set up, now I'm going out of the old one I've been out of to get into it. I do not know what the smiling Deputy Minister, Mr Alexiadis, says, but that phrase is left to me, ladies and gentlemen. This Chamber voted for the risky solution of these hundred doses, and this government takes it back. I wonder at night in the roll-call vote how the majority Members will treat them. Finally, the hardest measure I had taken as Minister of Health was the claw back. You'll find it in Article 16. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done. Clawback was a method of raising money when policies in their development, colleagues, were uncertain. What is the logic of this "pig"? "That's what I give you to spoil for health. One euro more, I automatically take it." This created a terrible disruption in the space. I get it. But it helped us to reach the desired levels of drug consumption outside hospitals, which had deteriorated over the days of the Karamanlis government, from 2.4 billion had reached 5.6 billion. The average price in Belgium, the Netherlands, in countries with our own population was where the PASOK government delivered it in 2004, i.e. 2.1 billion, 2.2 billion, 2.4 billion. Help a little hard. We did not think, ladies and gentlemen, of applying this to hospitals, which were already accepted in my own days - I do not know what is going on today - 30% more patients who left private health because they had no money. In hospitals - and there, of course, there were the 'parties' of the century - the pharmaceutical expenditure was restrained. We have not, however, implemented such measures. It was the responsibility of each commander to justify his medical expenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u133	You're welcome, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u134	I'm closing, Mr. President. Take this measure now at very low prices as set out in Article 16. In one place, ladies and gentlemen, any protection in this extended health service system which Greece has - to its credit - you put in a isomer and indiscriminate manner a measure on the spray, itself, a public hospital that treats cancer patients with another that does not cure this heavy disease. How are internal breakdowns to be made? It's a technical problem. How for three years from now is pharmaceutical expenditure committed to such a low level, when our hospitals are visiting them more? How are you gonna do that? Which neoliberal teacher leads the Ministry of Health? I was saying that Mr. Xanthos - and I say it again - is a very modest man. This measure - and in fact we read, I may be wrong to say that - has it not been put on the side of the negotiation that you have made across the street? That's an invention. Ladies and gentlemen, you're asking for money. You're asking for money, but in a way that has no precedent. And we cannot vote for this provision. In conclusion, we will not vote for any of the things you have brought here today. In the first place, we are against the articles. And you are, whatever you say, whatever you do - and I say it again and all of our Members will say it - the government of first home auctions! Rejoice those who have shown you! But you should know that many people already think about it and think about it many times. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I would urge Parliamentary representatives to respect this year as well, because time is deducted from Members. Mr President, I would ask you in the new Rules of Procedure to limit the time of the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, we have not said that this is an urgent procedure. If it were normal for us to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u138	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u139	This is the second or third time I have spoken on this. I would ask you very much to keep the timetable, because the procedure will be over at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u140	I think you said at 19:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u141	At 19.00 hours, 19.15 hours - we will see that - to start the vote. Also, it is not right for the Parliamentary Representatives - they all know, you all know, in previous years - to speak immediately after the rapporteurs and the Minister and make this circle, without speaking in the middle of the House, let alone when the parliamentary representatives speak for seventeen minutes. If both the presidents or the leaders of the parties come, I don't even know about the Prime Minister himself, it is obvious that nobody will speak. This is not the case because the bill is being discussed as an urgent matter. Ten o'clock is enough. You have announced it since the morning and time has come for it. I would ask you very much to keep the time. You have every right to say that parliamentary representatives could speak after six, for example, Members. You know it better than I do and you've done it in a perfect way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u142	Mr. President, excuse me. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u143	I just want to say this to the House. I'm not suggesting to the Bureau. I'm telling you now not to see you this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u144	He's wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u145	There are also four ministers to speak, and the urgency was decided by the Conference of Presidents by the committee. The Rules of Procedure state that the Government proposes that the Conference of Presidents discuss this and propose it, and that the committee decides. There have been all these stages since the morning, and it is not possible in the name of the appeal, 'I have to say this and the other and secondary and tertiary words, etc.' to arrive this afternoon in a deadlock, which the rest of the Chamber will be screaming - and rightly so - that it is not possible to speak at least twenty, thirty Members. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I am offended.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u147	Why are you offended?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I am offended. Why does he say that? I would ask you to take the floor to justify the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u149	You are the first parliamentary representative to speak. If everyone talks for seventeen minutes, then what happens?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u150	You're right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I am really offended.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, you are right that Members are indeed complaining because they cannot speak. That is why I propose to the new Rules of Procedure that the time of the parliamentary representatives should be limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u153	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u154	The second is that Mr Loverdos said he would not ask again for the floor for a second, so this must be respected, at least by the Bureau and Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u155	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u156	My request is that you should respect my own request and the President of this House, namely that we respect the Members. So Mr Brutsis will now speak, then four Members will be intervened, and then the next parliamentary representative will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I have a personal issue, really. I want the floor, please, I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u158	Good, Mr. Loverdo, explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u159	We have seen with great generosity all the parliamentary groups and the majority of this procedure. The government wanted to become urgently, the majority is given, it went through. However, we have said that the debate will be as best as possible. That's how we accepted the agencies yesterday. The Rules of Procedure do not allow this, but we did so, by appreciating our own internal issues, the interna corporis as we say. Today we have the absolute right - although the Rules of Procedure have been speaking for ten hours - to proceed with the procedure at eleven and twelve hours. It's our thing, we can do it. But we cannot, in view of these procedures, deny the parties to make their general positions. I did ask you for my dentistry, because I needed the party...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u160	I said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u161	...which I have the honour to represent here, to express politically. That is our right. Members cannot complain against us. To protest against the government that brings all its draft laws urgently. In that sense, I am insulted by the suggestion made by the President of Parliament. I have no reason and no desire to circumvent the procedures, but you won't let us down!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Loverdo, I don't think the President reproached you. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u163	The staff didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u164	That's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u165	The second is that Members - and you know that - are also against the Bureau when it does not apply the Rules of Procedure on time. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u166	We suggest that we stay by 12 o'clock at night to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u167	That's all. That is a matter for the House to decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u168	Now you're telling us about ten hours? They have made the'saita' Regulation and are telling us now for ten hours. Make them twelve!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u169	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u170	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u171	Now I'll tell you, Mr. Loverdo. Wait a minute. When you are away, please, please be informed by the Minutes as you do, what has happened since the beginning of the procedure at 9.30 ́. There is no call for the thirteenth of the Rules of Procedure. Perhaps you haven't noticed. Please be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u172	You said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u173	I said 'in the context of the dilemma'. Mr. Loverdo, please. There's an emergency call and it's agreed on 19:00 and 20:00 and we can't go to 23:00 and 00:00. It has nothing to do with parties' needs, but the vote must be over by then. And yesterday, in the committee, the ministers told you. It's not a matter of occupancy and formalism. For God's sake! By 00:00, we'd sit down. If we were really at our disposal to do it, we could do it by 00.00. We can't and we don't want to. Understand it. That's what this is about. We must not oppose something you do not know about. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u174	We're not up against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am admiring to the speaker, Mr Tsakalotos, in the Chamber today, to take a second day of the debate on this critical bill, on the basis of the fact that yesterday's press releases by the government, with the statements by the Finance Ministers yesterday from a Chamber and today by Mr Tsakalotou, are actually trying to make black white. They are trying to convince the Greek people that the reluctance they have made in the law of Katselis and the Hatzidakis law will actually have better effects for the protection of citizens, for those who really have a problem, for those that the former New Democracy government actually protected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u177	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u178	And because we as a New Democracy - and it would be a good thing to take some parliamentary customs and behaviour from us in our operation and in the way we are dominated - we inherited the Katseli law, we respected it - the PASOK law - and we have built our own law, double network of protection, the Hatzidakis law. And you remember very well, Mr Stathakis, when we brought these laws to the House, not only were you voting against them, not only the complainants, you were out - not you personally, you are a moderate man - with the Prime Minister's leader, under "No house in the hands of a banker". And you had called on the entire Greek people to take down this irreversible government. And today you are supposed to come here with the result of a good negotiation and cancel everything, leave hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens unprotected who have problems with the first residence and come to make the black white. And here I come to say that even if there were some credibility votes not in society, because the Greek people have begun and understood and taken a stand forth and gave you second time a vote of confidence in January and September and believed in the 'first time left', all this dream that you cultivated and as they watched awkwardly has understood, I believe, what the truth is - but these few digits of credibility you are now trying to indulge in your parliamentary group to support this bill - yesterday you had the first sample. Of the hundred and forty-five SYRIZA MPs, only three defended it. And by Mr Kammenos's MEP, who also performed in Piraeus to defend auctions with his parliamentary group, only one. That's your picture. And he's coming in today and the cherry is coming in on the cake. The resignation of Mr Sakellaridis is not so innocent or politically neutral. Mr Sakellaridis, ladies and gentlemen, was the right hand of the Prime Minister and of the former Minister. Why did he quit? It's just that he's been haunting him and he's been in conflict with himself, with lies, with the populism you've been inventing all the previous time and now you're consciously or in real society to deal with it. You saw yourself in the mirror. And especially for this bill, which is so socially sensitive, but so socially sensitive, it has so many important social consequences, because since Monday the issue of group auctions is now starting with the 'first time left', resigns Mr Sakellaridis. It is a serious political issue, which is neither politically neutral nor politically irresponsible. It is the result of your policy, which seems to have a tail. From us, as a New Democracy, with the seriousness and parliamentary morality we have, you see a different political behaviour. We are sitting, talking with you, trying to fill out the provisions of the law, improve them, make them better. But you can't hear us. You've humiliated everything you inherited. You went to create something new from the beginning, which actually brought zero results and turned the shorter back. You have reduced the sacrifices of the Greek people and today we are facing a dead end and you are going to rebuild. Let us see, Mr Stathakis, the issue of the hundred doses, for example, which is a priority for your Government: I remind you that it was the fact that there was no panel for television or public radio frequency that you had not put as a pillar of your political defence of social needs and of the socially sensitive categories. That's what you were projecting. That's the way you won the election, just like the auctions. I would remind you, Mr Stathakis, ladies and gentlemen - because in politics there must be continuity, keeping good, building on it and expanding it - from this step of the House, that when I became the minister, I inherited from the previous government specific things. I admitted who was well, I tracked the weaknesses and built on them. We brought them in September as a New Democracy. And we brought them in unilaterally. They had a very good social framework for integration of those who had a lack of payment of the deadlines. hundreds of thousands of them began to join the hundreds of doses. The troika came and agreed with us in a second year at a 4% interest rate, with the framework cleared, without putting the millionaires in, from a million or more. I remember then, suddenly, a few days later, Mrs Valavani, your own official and many SYRIZA officials, organizing this unacceptable political logic, anti-national logic, the 'I do not pay' movement. And as the elections came and everyone thought you'd be government, everyone stopped paying under the pretext that you'd bring something better and the seismic, that you'd enjoy all the loans. You brought the hundred doses here, the new ones. We voted on them. We have drawn your attention to the fact that you must be very careful about what you are doing today and not change it. And since then, ladies and gentlemen, this law has changed seven times. Today, for example, in the insurance funds of EUR 3.5 billion that had been integrated, they have been cut before the new provisions, the burdens, over 50%, are being applied. And because I have heard Mr Alexiadis invoking our own laws in relation to this bill, which you are bringing in, I am simply saying to you that we have succeeded - and it is in our own law, our own law - that one could lose the regulation within the same time and not come out of the arrangement, that is to say, not pay and join. And here's the results of your policy and your negotiation! You're canceling this too! How can we vote, Mr Stathakis? How can we compromise with something that you took good and destroyed? We warned you: Watch out! But you first chose that, "we don't see the troika, we never meet it and nowhere," you started with the measurements in Brussels, you ended up coming back to the Ministry, and you made the famous meetings of Hilton or the "white towel". That's your deal. In fact, with what we see with some people who are aware of the important issues of the economy, social security and social policy, I am simply saying that, despite your good intentions - no one wants to question that you have good intentions, no one wants to question this - the results you bring - because everything is judged by the result - is not zero, but you have turned everything backwards. I would say that someone would explain to us what the reason and reason you brought to a second bill, by urgent procedure, the issue of the taxation of wine growers, of our country's vineyard. We are the only country in Europe that comes to tax on something that we produce. I would like to ask the Minister if there is another country like this. To inform the Greek people that there is no country in Europe that puts a Special Consumer Tax when it produces the same wine. We're the only ones. We are a European originality! Why, Minister? You say you will receive EUR 110 million. Do you know that there are dozens of technical issues because of which these taxes are weak? This works in combination with the fact that you are actually stabbing the country's primary sector, in a sensitive part, in a particular sector for which we are all proud. We are proud of our good wine. Indeed, you do not take into account the protests of all Greek wine producers who are protesting today. We have been filled - and rightly - with e-mail indignation in order to get it back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we tell you that we do not accept that. As we did with the beer and you took it back -, of course, you did not get it back, but you lost it in the vote - we will be in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. We are applying for a roll-call vote on this issue, as we do on auctions. And here it will look like who really wants the primary sector and who doesn't want it. This evening, we'll be confronted! They must listen to us - and they will hear us, because it is interesting - the tens of thousands of workers in this crop, hundreds of businesses in Greece dealing with this subject, the production of wine. We're being watched today. And to see the evening, as the roll-call vote takes place, who will really be in favour or against. Why to get up here in SYRIZA's Step Members and go out on TV in the morning and say, "We instructed our Government to tax on whiskey," that's not what it says. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In practice, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, things are being tempered in politics, not by going on television to say your intentions. Here, on the real thing. That means Mr Sakellaridis' resignation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. I'd like to have half the tolerance you've shown Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Brutsi, don't say that again. Mr. Loverdos said he wouldn't talk again. He quit dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u180	All right, Mr. President. I close as follows: yesterday an amendment from Mr Alexiadis on road charges. It went through the changeover, because basically through the analysis of the Accounting Office, it appears that only the amount of fees is increased by 3 million euros as revenues from the State. However, there is a very important issue that is a matter of symbolisation and consistency of the state. I shall read to you two figures, because you are also a party on the left with the so-called visual environmental sensitivity. I say this because today, Mr Stathakis, the environmental sensitivity of the Left is being shot down. It is our fault that we have never displayed what we have believed and acted on. So I'm telling you that in 2013 the traffic revenues were EUR 1,183,000. We got him targeting. In 2014 it was less, i.e. 1,119,000 euros. We got him targeting. For 2015, the target was 1,088.000,000 euros in the budget that we delivered to you. Do you know why he was reducing the amount? Because we had invested precisely in this environmental strategy, so that people could buy anti-pollutant cars for reduced carbon dioxide, so that we could offer the environment. And today, you come and tax this anti-pollution technology in cars and you are basically tearing down this anti-pollution environment, the framework and the net that we have built in previous years. It's wrong. We're not going to vote on it. It is not the EUR 13 million that you receive most, but the change in consistency and in the central environmental strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr. Antoniou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today one of the most critical bills in the course of our country in order to implement the prerequisites of the agreement with lenders. Our aim by the end of 2015 is to have completed the necessary legislative arrangements to complete the recapitalisation of the banks, to release the necessary amounts to be needed, to be part of them in the real economy for the gradual repayment of public debts to private and public entities. Since 2016, we have been launching the great debate on debt write-down, what you were saying, ladies and gentlemen - I mean colleagues from PASOK and New Democracy - that it is sustainable. This is the road map that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will consistently serve, despite difficulties. Margins for drawbacks and other failures do not exist for our country. This bill contains arrangements for red loans in the direction of protecting the vast majority of poor and medium-sized households. For the first time in the whole process, reference is made to the current market value of the property and not the objective value. The draft law, despite the opposite views of the opposition, creates a framework for protecting the weak, those who have lost their jobs during the period of crisis, those who have reduced their incomes, the unemployed and in general the poor and medium-sized households. The income limits of 36,000 euros per annum set by the law, which is the protection cap, cover over 85% of households, as, according to tax figures, only 15% of households report income above this amount. Another innovation of the arrangement being voted on is that in settlement courts the total debts of the borrower will come to be determined and the reasonable instalment that can be covered will be fixed. It is misleading to say in this Chamber that the Katselis law covered almost all borrowers and that there was full and universal protection. Of the total of four hundred thirty thousand currently red loans for the first residence, only seventy thousand have recourse to the Katseli law. They're still in regulation. The others are entering into the new arrangements of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the bill is to protect the financially weak in this country. And that's what's happening. It is also important, however, for those who in any way have incomes and do not pay their obligations to be identified and forced to pay. This will restore the legal sense of citizens. There must also be - and the Minister for Finance is not here - certain arrangements - for example reductions in interest rates, etc. - for those who normally served their loans and their obligations, existing bloody economies throughout the time of the crisis, to feel a form of justice and material reward too. In conclusion, I would like to remind you here in the Qualified Opposition and PASOK what the institutions' plans for the fate of red loans and first residence were. That is what the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, mentioned. It appeared from the reply given by the Commissioner responsible to the question of SYRIZA MEP Dimitris Papadimoulis last spring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr Antoniou, particularly for respecting time. Mr. Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is constantly talking about a proud negotiation and ending up with a painful compromise. It is preferable for us to make a painful negotiation, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and to bring a proud result. It is difficult, almost impossible, to think of another government which, in such a cynical and analgeous way, is so inextricably and unequivocally, so rapid and also violently moving on in the mutation to which you have progressed. It's scary, shocking, I would say, the way, the convenience with which you bring bills and practice policies in a completely opposite direction to what you said a few months ago, even a few weeks ago. Whatever was a flag to you, you guys are pimping it yourself. You cancel your own laws recurring in our own regulations, as you confess, for the provisions for the hundred instalments, which you are doing today in today's bill we are discussing. You are imposing taxes on the primary sector, as if you were doing so on purpose, ladies and gentlemen, as if you were aiming at harming anything productive, dynamic and extroverting, as you are trying to do today with wine, affecting wine growers, winegrowers and workers. You charge those who listen to their environmental and antipollution consciences, you with the so-called ecological left government. And you are doing this again today with the amendment to increase traffic charges. Dissolve everything that has been built and at risk a lot more and more for Greek citizens than you are supposed to ensure. You are the government of asymmetrical losses. And I come to the issue of red loans, ladies and gentlemen. What was the protection promised by the vulnerable social groups? You have reached the Greek people's vote, promising, among other things, debt-sharing. So you lured many of our fellow citizens who were affected by the crisis not to go through with their debts. Even worse, you created, cultivated and maintained in every way a culture of non-payments, since the prospect of SYRIZA government created reasonable confidence that most of the debts would be deleted. You have fought with every instrument the integrated protection framework adopted by the Government of New Democracy with the new ones. 4222/2013 and 4307/2014, which you naturally voted against, as you had done in the past with v. 3869/2010. You then accused us of handing over to the lenders and you prove today that SYRIZA is the real prisoner of the lenders. So what do you have to say now to the Greek people when the protection you have given to them does not even reach the levels of protection that it had guaranteed in the previous legislative framework? O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4224/2013 provided protection of the main home from auctions in case its objective value did not exceed EUR 200,000, the annual net family income of the debtor was less than or equal to EUR 35,000 and its total mobile and immovable assets did not exceed EUR 270,000. This law, ladies and gentlemen, gave protection to about 90% of the debtors. At the same time, the Act provided for the establishment of the Governmental Management Board for Private Debt, a groundbreaking mechanism for the resolution of non-performing private debt, legal persons and businesses. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] Among other things, this body was responsible for defining the concepts of ‘cooperative borrower’ and ‘fair living costs’, thus providing for the first time a valuable tool for the separation of debtors who have an objectively impossibility to repay their debts and those who are merely poor payers covered by the financially weak debtors. The same law established the Code of Conduct for Banks, in which the above criteria were intended to be incorporated with a view to applying the so-called ‘Ireland model’. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4307/2014 enabled the existing framework to be extended to business loans as it was allowed to businesses and professionals, which until 31/12/2013 had a turnover of up to 2,500,000 euros, to regulate their debts. In fact, the provisions of the above law were subject to loans guaranteed by the Greek State. The integration of small and medium-sized enterprises into the law's favourable regulations enabled them to delete up to 50% of their debt, thus providing oxygen to viable companies affected by the crisis, in order to maintain jobs. And you fought this law, with the expectations of a more generous arrangement, but which still remain expectations. However, as long as you fought the only comprehensive framework for protecting our vulnerable fellow citizens, established by our government in the two years 2012-2014 - at which I had the honour of participating - you had to de facto recognise the correctness of the arrangements. Thus, under the conditions for a debtor to be included in the arrangements of Law.4336/2015, the demonstration of a cooperating borrower's behaviour is included, in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Code of Conduct you have criticised with great vigour and rejected after abomination. So you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who accused us of opening the ferry to auctions, referring to the only legislative framework that provided the maximum degree of protection for European data, are coming today and you are removing the protection, forgetting the programme of Thessaloniki, and seismicism, and the intermediary of the management of problem loans, effectively deceiving the Greek people. Didn't you triumph after the signing of the agreement of 20 February that you closed the problematic loan issue with the establishment of the institution? Gentlemen of the government, you have cultivated unavoidable expectations with the sole aim of power. So, now, you must confess to the Greek people your enormous failure to implement one of the most basic, if not the most basic, announcement of your Government. The Greek people in the vote of this law will no longer know that the ferry door has not just opened, but has opened wide open the door to the auctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and their students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of New Psychikos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ilias Cassidyris has the floor. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou will then be given the floor, followed by Mr Karras, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u186	We made a huge effort earlier to understand exactly what the SYRIZA Minister who came to say here in order to justify the criminal, destructive, anti-grassroots measures that his government is voting on today. Unfortunately this man does not speak the Greek language, he does not even know how to read the Greek language. We didn't manage to understand much of what he said. But he also said a great truth, which we must repeat and which the Greek people also know perfectly well. So Anglo-Mr Tsakalotos said to the newly-democratic MPs that SYRIZA is doing what New Democracy had agreed to and could not pass. That's a great truth. SYRIZA is in an orderly service. Tsipras has undertaken as a contractor to go through with this abomination of SYRIZA - ANEL as much as anti-national and anti-popular measures Samaras could not go through with Venizelos. That's why Tsipras was chosen as Merkel's favorite child and international tug. And today it applies a criminal policy, which is aimed at dismantling the Greek economy, the assignment of national sovereignty and the divestment of Greece's national property! You deceived the citizens, saying nice slogans. 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Now, however, all houses go to the hands of foreign loan sharks and bankers. You said, "Go back Merkel, go back Shoeble". You said, "No to Unfinished", nice plays to make fun of the ignorants. You also said that with an article and a law you would abolish the memos. And today, at the critical time when you deceived the citizens and took over power, you proved yourself to be the greatest liars. You imposed the most anti-national, treacherous memorandum, imposed the bloodiest taxes on the poor Greeks. No one believes your lies, that you will pursue the big capital and the swimming pool villas. The swimming pool villas you own: Tsakalotos, Stathakis, all SYRIZA ministers, who have invested in foreign funds, who have millions abroad, who sometimes forget and declare them. You called "Go back Merkel", go now and go to Merkel and give her the first residence of the Greeks. Of course, your plan is these Greek homes, which will be stolen, and then attributed to illegal immigrants. Because the aim of foreign power centres, which unfortunately run our country and have turned it into a lousy protectorate, is for the Greeks to become a minority within Greece. This plan will not pass until the Golden Dawn remains strong, remains unique Opposition in Greece. Europe is now burning out of Islamic terrorism. It is burned by terrorists who entered Europe across the Greek border. And for months we have been shouting inside the House about this crime that is being committed - not by tolerance - and the government is promoting this crime. The SYRIZA and ANEL government are collaborating in this crime which is taking place at the expense of Greece, but also at the expense of the European peoples. The open borders policy, in which you are insisting, is a disaster for our country. It's a disaster and we demand that it stop. By the way, I would say that the President of the Parliament was previously annoyed because a member of the People's League called Turkey a stink, the most resilient, criminal state in the world. The President of Parliament was not disturbed when Mr Balafas had used him. A colleague of yours, Mr President, Mr Constantinople, had called him a stink in a committee. At that time it has not bothered you to be called a "bang" a Member of Parliament. Now, however, you're showing a terrible Turkish philosophy. We weren't expecting it. That kind of turcoagne, Mr. President of Parliament? At the moment, of course, when the Prime Minister of Greece, unfortunately, goes and is being photographed, refreshing, with Turkish actors under a huge table of the slaughterer of Hellenism Kemal Ataturk, we have nothing to say, except that we insist on the characterisation of "broken" not only for Turkey, but also for your Government, which is the most refreshing collapsing of the last decades, which does all the dirty work of ethnic treason that could not do the previous memorial manifolds, PASOK and New Democracy. And we are specifically talking here, with this bill, how you are leveling what is left over in our agricultural production, how you want to create burnt land in Greece, knocking on areas such as viticulture, such as wine production. They're sectors of prosperous people, and you're destroying them. Destroy what's left standing. And you know very well that by imposing all these new taxes all you can do is not collect money. Take the oil, for example. What about the oil? When the taxes increased sharply, the revenues in the public funds were zero. With this tax, this destructive policy, with mathematical accuracy, leads to the primary sector being destroyed in Greece. And so, foreign competitors are favoured. I happen to be a graduate of the Agricultural University of Athens and Oenologist and to have studied closely all the issues relating to this area of wine production and viticulture. The only "success" you will have with all these measures is that our competitors, the Mediterranean states, mostly, who also produce wine and close hundreds of Greek companies. So this is the Left: they are submissive foreigners. And you showed your left-hand staff, of course, what it means to the left with MATs and chemicals, with which you hit Greek farmers yesterday. You are serving a disaster plan of Greece. You have recently sold out airports, which are firms that produce wealth. And when a house closes, it doesn't sell out a business that brings money to its fund. You can't sell businesses that bring revenues to public funds. That's why we're saying you're aiming to destroy the country. Because your policy here leads us. Just there. Only taxes, zero production, first home theft. The last act of drama will be the divestment of energy, the divestment of the mineral wealth of Greece. Fortunately - I close with this - your abomination is literally under dissolution. One-one takes the way of leaving MPs from both SYRIZA and ANELs. Today we see the case of Sakellaridis, who should, of course, behave more honestly, sit here and vote against these ethnic-progressive measures. Do not leave, say 'no' to theft of the first residence of the Greeks. We also see the case of Mr Nicholas, Mr Panagoulis. Already, very little time after the elections, your government is under collapse, under dissolution. Of course you have ready memorial pillows, "bomb-motor" instruments, pimp instruments, which entered the House with the promotion they had from the media that the "pimps" control, but also these pillows very soon, it is assumed that your government will be burned and your government will fall under the pressure of popular anger and Golden Dawn in the start of this national struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that the Tsipras - Kammenos Government is implementing a left-wing policy. How else can a policy that invokes the Left and its principles and harms the country, is against the traditional authorities of the Left itself. It invokes battles against economic oligarchy, while over-taxing low and medium-incomes. It invokes productive reconstruction and burdens what creative and productive exists in our country, dismantles the agricultural sector. It calls for social sensitivity and shows analgesia for the weak and disabled. In our ears, the Prime Minister's commitments "no house in the hands of a banker". How can an option be called to preserve at all costs the self-management of power? How else can it be explained that you have been lying consciously for five years? What you were telling consciously lies in the election of Yenaris with the programme of Thessaloniki. That you consciously entangled the Greek people by demanding "no" in the measures of 8 billion and then proposed "yes" in measures of 14 billion. How can it be described as being consciously lying in September for a supposedly parallel program? In order not to blame, there is a consequence of pre-election and post-election. Electionally, in September, Mr. Kammenos advertised that the child would learn with the broken left hand to write well with the right hand. He did. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your criminal errors, your miserable and unscrupulous policies have brought the country back into recession and society uncertain. You have received surpluses and created deficits. You have loaded society with 14 billion unnecessarily, burdening every family, every business, every citizen. No tax, no charge for the great wealth. Unless the government considers the oligocracy of wealth, the two thousand winegrowers, the seven hundred winemaking units and the twenty thousand workers in the wine sector. I confess to you that by listening to the government's choice to tax wine, I have sought the 'blue-loss' that they have proposed. I'm sure there's no other explanation, they decided to drink whiskey. Is it possible to correct the VAT error in education with a new error? Are you imposing a special tax, which, along with VAT, is enough for production costs? Are you all right, Ministers? Where is the current debts of the Minister for Rural Development, which, in the thick words, last days, spoke about support for the agricultural sector and farmers? I give you the document of the Secretary-General of the European Commission for Wine, dated 18 November, to the Members, and therefore to the Greek Government, of a Spanish Secretary-General of the European Commission, who talks about the dismantling of the wine sector in Greece and calls for the withdrawal of these provisions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the recapitalisation of the banks was a need arising from the disastrous referendum decision. However, the possibility of aggressive recapitalisation, which would enable banks to secure liquidity in the real economy, has been lost. The layout you recommend for the CFSF, by modifying the provisions applicable for a multiplier time, leads to the ultimate control of the banking system by creditors. Of course, at the current juncture, some wonder what is preferable: to appoint the troika with its criteria or the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with its purposes? We're clear. We are opposed to the frustration of the administrations of the banks, which will lead with mathematical accuracy to the frustration of Greek businesses and the economy and, of course, to the transfer of the management of red loans to the hands of foreigners. The deal on mass auctions is a trick to the government. The red lines of the negotiation became pink ribbons. Three thousand families are staying, not just without protection for first residence, but without right, without the possibility of being judged by the court if they have the conditions to keep their residence. We call for an extension of the right to join the n. 3869 for overdue households, at least until the end of the year. We are calling for the regulation proposed by the ESDC to protect the first residence, the families with disabilities - and I am tabling the ESDC document - and, of course, the introduction of an additional protection regulation for the multi-selected families of three-tiers and one-tiers. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government majority, which will vote today for mass auctions, will be asked to apologise for the eruption of many thousands of families, but also for the reduction of the value of all the properties, whether they have been obtained by means of loans served or paid back. For unrelenting rents you come with a setting to correct a previous mistake with a new mistake. You require the owners to resort first to the court and then to be able to delegate to the DU, with huge and economic and bureaucratic costs. For the purpose of adjusting the percentage of doses we have for a multiplier change in the hands. Mr. Alexiadis, you have repeatedly promised that you will bring a list of some two hundred fifty benevolent millionaires from the MIP. Each time you put forward a different excuse. Who does not allow you to bring the list of benevolent millionaires to the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u189	You're the one who prevented you from bringing... (It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u190	What's stopping you? What's wrong with you? Tell us and we'll get the request for the evidence to be submitted to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u191	You guys on the Lagard list when you're gonna get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, come to your attention. Obviously the statement by Mr Sakellaridis accompanying his resignation reinforces all the concerns I have expressed previously. Stop, even now, harming the country, the economy and destroying creative and productive forces, society and the citizens themselves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u193	Well done, Mr. Kegeroglu, you've won me for a minute. The floor is now, as I have said, the Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Carras, and immediately thereafter is Mrs Manolakos - I tell you to be in the Chamber - Mr Barriotas...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, the Bureau said that I would speak at noon to propose an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u195	All right, then let Mr. Carras speak, I have spoken to him, and then Mr. Carras will give you the floor. And Mrs Manolakou will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u196	You have spoken to me too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u197	By the Rules of Procedure you know that it precedes... Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the bill, you will allow me to make three brief comments on the way the bill is discussed as urgent. In fact, yesterday the committee decided to discuss the urgent procedure, but by a majority. All other parties to the opposition and our representative at the Conference of Presidents voted against this process. Why do we say that, Mr President? It's worth it. Legislation comes as an emergency in this House, commits Parliament, often deprives us of the right to work it out in time, to contribute to legislative improvement, and what do we find in it? Be one or two emergency arrangements and all other provisions are management and they are usually devices that are reintroduced. We have a classic example in this bill, which we are discussing today. Article 2 replaces - it says - Article 26 of the Tax Procedure Act. But you're replacing it, Mr. Alexiades, third time in two months that we're in this House. I remember. You replaced it within the first urgent bill, you replaced it - you tried to replace it - with a steep, artificial legislative improvement and you come now, and you do, in fact, repeat, with few verbal differences, the same arrangements for selecting cases to be checked. Does that mean anything? Is something wrong? Are the cases being dropped and we want to give immunity to the entire extent of tax evasion now? Because I cannot understand the quantification you are constantly referring to. You repeat it. A choice will be made without any noticeable criteria. The same thing, of course, I must say to the New Democracy, which introduced the tax procedure, and it has brought the concept of non-disclosed criteria to a standstill. Why shouldn't they be announcing? Why not know them, at least within this House, what are these criteria, so that we too can check whether the tax-gunkers, those who owe the state, are controlled or selective, are sampled, and we are saying 'we are doing our job very well and the others are aware of them, so everything is going well and everything is pleasing and we all have to be satisfied'? Mr Alexiadis owes a clear answer to this point. A second point, Mr President, concerns me personally as a Parliamentary representative of the Centro Association: I have seen - and the President-in-Office will allow me - that the smaller parties have a disparity. What do I mean? We have a small parliamentary group and so we cannot contribute as much as we can. If Parliament's rights are restricted, then our voice will now be reduced. We do not think that these are the intentions, because the largest parties have a greater number of Members, they have the possibility of saying, referring, constantly having speakers and we have to be part of the whole debate. I think that you should, Mr President, see this point because it is a democratic element now. I do not want to extend to this speech here. I believe in that in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u199	You will be extended to the Conference of Presidents. You can put it there so you don't waste time. Okay? That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u200	Yeah. Thank you, Mr President. I mentioned it because it was an opportunity, where Mr. Voutiss is here. Third matter. I have already spoken about the urgent provisions of this draft law. I have set the example of Article 2. I'm on it. So I come, and I see what? I see a provision that doesn't give me an answer. But he's worried about me. What's that arrangement? It is true that, on the one hand, the arrangements under Article 11 are abolished, and, on the other hand, the regulations of the CEC, the Deposit Guarantee Fund and another provision is introduced as paragraph 30, which says that it replaces Article 16 and speaks of consolidation loans. Are we going to get from the Deposit Guarantee Fund the savings of the Greek people and give them to reorganise the banking system? Where can this funnel arrive? Where can this swimming pool reach the fall of all the money and be on the third recapitalisation of the banks, be on the point that the Greeks' residence is now insecure to a large extent? These rates of protection for first residence, 61%, 62% said by the government, we cannot control them, but we cannot accept them. From the messages we get out in society, people are really concerned about the issue of protecting their homes. Nor did the government give an indication that these arrangements protect 50%, 60%, as it says. I think that these issues should be heard in this Chamber, because otherwise they cannot be regulated. I want to say something else now: we are talking about protecting the Greeks' first residence, which needs to be protected, that family man who can no longer respond to his economic and social conditions. You will allow me to speak personally again: How do we protect him from the family, when we force him to resort to anything in court? I'm a lawyer and I know what that means. He will appeal to the court to make the application, he will appeal to the court to request the suspension of execution, he will appeal to the court to request the liquidation of his property to exclude the first residence from the risk of forced execution. Hey, no, gentlemen of the government! It is not possible for the proceedings to continue to be brought by the courts to provide protection. Either with the hundred and fifty peacekeepers you'll appoint or the cleaners who have the good fortune of switching to the court secretaries, whatever else is done will not bring the result. I will say something else and perhaps it is radical: we are in the third recapitalisation of banks. The figures given to the banks are not known. It is not known - at least to us - the money that has disappeared from the banks. And that's due to bad policies, it's not present. The Financial Stability Fund, however, had a capital of 50 billion, which was subordinated to its establishment. That's it, it's air, it's gone! Today we're giving more money. The House voted to recapitalise the banks. In 2014 they were recapitalised by private funds. So I would like to ask, and I would like to answer: 2012 was the golden opportunity and the New Democracy government to settle the issue of first residence. Because then there were those funds, which could lead to the deletion of loans from those of our compatriots, our fellow humans in need. And they wouldn't show up today's debts. If you had succeeded, gentlemen, and then you had arranged this issue, there would be no borrower with a debt of 100, 200 and 300 thousand today! Because it was forced by the crisis, which was also created by the political system, to be charged. She stopped paying, she didn't. He's out of work! But what happened? Banks charge commissions, interest, interest, everything. And where the capital today of 100 thousand - which could then have been 10 or 20 000 - has been deleted or otherwise regulated, these people were left to their fate. So I think that the only correct proposal today is to leave the regulations, the courts, the lawyers, the judges, the secretaries. We won't achieve anything. We have to get to the bottom of it. Let us see criteria, out-of-court arrangements and make banks - it is state-owned, as much as we say, that they are recapitalised by private individuals, to what amount, to the minimum, to the maximum funds, which are required - to recapitalisation, but to write off loans. Why, you know what, Minister? If the bill comes, which you say will sell housing or other foreign capital loans, then the following will happen: I shall finish, Mr President. The banks will have taken for two and for three times the money they need, the Greek people will have been charged and we will go again without hope and without ruler. With these thoughts, then, we had started and had thought about the bill, and we even had reservations yesterday. But today, without hearing any improvement, without hearing any attempt by the government, that it is really trying to regulate for the benefit of the whole and the economy and with a development dimension, we are now thinking that we should vote against this bill as a whole. I'm filling in something: There's been a lot of hearing about the wine. It is an irreversible position that you are taking. Why am I saying that? In order for the winery in Greece to succeed, thirty and forty years, people who have managed to accelerating varieties, to place themselves on markets. And we come today and tell them: “What are you yelling at? Only forty minutes per litre’. But thirty are the minutes of production costs! Withdrawal of that, gentlemen, if you please. I shall end, Mr President, by saying that. We will be willing to follow arrangements for the first residence if objective, out-of-court arrangements were introduced into the bill in order to end the procedure within a reasonable time. My experience forty - one - year - old lawyer tells me that neither in six months can judge the courts in six years, with their structure and infrastructure. So bring in, let's see, we discuss out-of-law arrangements, and we're close to you, so we can alleviate the world. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u201	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Until Mr. Venizelos arrives at Step...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, may I clarify something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u203	What do you want? Do you want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u204	One minute, I would like to make a clarification on Article 2.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u205	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u206	I will speak for less than a minute, Mr President. In relation to what has been said about Article 2, I would like to make it clear that it is not a new provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u207	It's the third time! You didn't withdraw it, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u208	It's a provision that's come to a previous bill. We have heard criticism, which was correct, that parliamentarians were not the best way in which they came because they came as a legislative improvement to an amendment. What we are doing now is bringing the provision in normal form, with an article with paragraphs and others. It is not a new provision, it is a repetition of a previous procedure and we do so for parliamentary reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u209	It's amateur, however, in essence, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u210	All right, obviously you're not satisfied with the substance of Mr. Carras. You gave the answer and we're done. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor. I would remind you - until Mr Venizelos begins his position - that Mrs Manolakou, Mr Barriotas, Mr Fokas, Mr Theo-Conservative, has the floor. Mr Karakostas will follow from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Besiropoulos, Beyrolas, Hatzidakis, Papanatsiou. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what we do, it is a satisfaction to see the SYRIZA Government - ANEL joining our strategy, the motto of the memorandum, to self-determination, to justify difficult choices over the previous six years. We said that, and it has its historic value, but not so. Mr Tsipras' negotiating tactics have been formulated. It led us to the third memorandum, without that being necessary in December 2014. The tactic is very simple: a communication scene is supposed to be tough negotiation. Time is running out. The country is “closed with the back against the wall” and the government then retreats against the state. So we have arrived in the Memorandum for another three years, and today we can celebrate the anniversary of the infamous, historic mail Hardouvel, which can be compared to Memorandum 3 and the measures introduced by the Government. Anyone can judge in consciousness - and if not in this Chamber, alone - if the country in November 2015 is in a better or worse state than November - December 2014. Unfortunately, the difference is catalytic. We have lost a national acquis. We drove to a national retreat. Now there is an expectation, according to optimistic estimates, to return to the point where we were in December 2014 in December 2017. And I'm talking about the country's macroeconomic sizes. At the same time Portugal is now borrowing at a negative interest rate on international markets. And all this happened while we really had found one step before the exit, before the status change. Of course, in Brussels, in the European capitals, the analysis they are doing is very simple. They consider their strategy to have succeeded, because finally from December 2014 there was a percentage - let us say - - 30%, 35% in favour of the European strategy, the difficult road and a 65%, 70% in the 'calls', against the memorandum, which was impressed by the demagogues and the promises, now a year later, 80% in favour of the Council of Ministers and, certainly, 80% in the House has joined more or less in the difficult European strategy of the despaired memorandum. Watch out: 2015! Think about the difficulties that existed in 2010, 2011, 2012 and so on. Of course, outside Greece, it is difficult to understand the dual language of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, the ambiguity, the imaginary lie, which is not easily cured, because you see that within both the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the ANELs we have resistances. We do not only have the resignation of Mr. Sakellaridis, who is honoured by personal conscience, but also shows the internal contradiction in the majority, we also have the issue of Mr. Nicholopoulou in the Independent Greeks. We now have an unstable parliamentary majority. We have a legalization crisis early. Just two months after the election, we have problems with strategy, ethos problems, institutional problems, institutional catastrophe, Panus case, we have called into question fundamental government choices by its government majority. At the same time, all of this creates an extremely precarious framework to link your economic policy to foreign policy issues, with national issues, with the management of refugee pressures and flows, with the management of the threat of terrorism. Mr Tsipras went to Turkey, Istanbul and Ankara. I heard his statements. I have lived through this environment of discussions and joint statements. What did we hear? He accepts Mr Davoglou's position that violations must be avoided both in the Aegean and in the Aegean and that technical cooperation between the coastguards will be established. Is that what this was about? Is that why he went? Here we go. We can help. We can ensure national continuity and national strategy. The issue is much deeper, what is happening with what Mr Tsipras is now in the joint statements of the European Council, but for which he has been following us, we have been persecuted in recent years, in relation to Syria, the Middle East, North Africa, in relation to the Eastern Neighbourhood of the European Union, in relation to how we understand our position within the world and within the Euro-Atlantic Alliance. And today is the preamble to the following ones, because the real difficulties follow. They follow the issues of insurance, agricultural taxation, new fiscal measures, structural changes to open up markets, changes in public administration. Finally, we will see what the delay and the adventurous involvement with the shameful debt was, when we should have completed the arrangements and the 2012 agreements, to get something more that we had promised next to this great one that we took as a reduction in 2012. But the bill also matters because it concerns the first residence. Unfortunately, if the government finally left the protection of the first home from the auctions at the discretion of banks, banks would give debtors greater protection than the protection afforded by the Tsipra - Kammenos Government. Now, unfortunately, by law, through the banking supervision system, banks will not be able to make the facilitation moves they could make. Mr Kaitanenen's reply, which Mr Tsakalotos referred to, is funny to interpret this way. Mr Kaitanen said that there is, as a temporary measure, the suspension of auctions on the basis of our legislation and the protection of vulnerable groups, guaranteed social income, as a structural measure. This is how Mr Kaitanen's answer is read in common, not to justify the retreat and humiliation of the government's negotiation. As far as the hundred doses are concerned, we have told you before: do not vote. You'll clear it up. Respect what you found. The worst thing, however, is that we are not talking about business loans, we are not talking about restructuring of loans and businesses, about the conditions for lending small and medium-sized enterprises. We've said it another time. The way in which the bank's capital adequacy, the bank's portfolio, has been controlled leads to dramatic difficulties in new loans, therefore new investments from the backbone of the economy, which is the small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's what we need to see after the recapitalisation. This is the big issue for growth, for the creation of new jobs. These are not discussed. Mr Tsakalotos says 'We have a strategy, we have developed, we will do one, we will do the other, we will do the third'. These, you know, have been told years ago, under much worse conditions, with far greater efficiency. Now is that the point? If you do not have a national reconstruction plan, which incorporates and exceeds the memorandum, you cannot negotiate, you cannot mobilise the productive forces, the creative forces of society, inspire confidence. Insecurity and uncertainty have made recapitalisation very difficult. They've done extra damage to the economy. They make it difficult to return the investment interest in Greece. The issue is uncertainty. SYRIZA had an impressive weapon in his hands. He created political uncertainty in previous years. He was driving out investments. He created fear of consumption. He was hitting the economy himself. If the government were to ensure that it was really changing, that it would guarantee a process of serious adaptation and overcoming, it would cancel the country's risk, the country's risk, it would facilitate growth, recovery, and it would not. It does not do so because it wants to maintain the unfinishedness, the dual language, the closure of the eye, the small political purposes. It must keep a contradictory parliamentary group, a middle-sized election majority of 35.5%, contradictory by definition, which everyone believes in. So now that we have to leave promises, hollow words, demagogues and go to specific and practical, now there's nothing effective, nothing specific. So at least vote on the amendment, which says that when one comes under Law 3869, as is the case - in our law, that is, as is true - favourable arrangements will not be affected in the event of a change in the face of the lender, because the loans are regulated, but may then be pledged or may be transferred. Furthermore, favourable regulations will not be affected in the event of a change in the regulatory framework of the creditor, i.e. banks, which, as a regulatory framework of European Community law, prevails under national law. And that is very important. The most critical of all is this. When you change the line, change the line with braveness, say, "Okay, I was saying mistakes, I was lying, I was delusional, I prevented the smooth evolution of things, I have caused damage to the economy". That's not what the government says. I don't want him to say it. I don't want anyone to be humiliated. It is important that those who are enthusiastic about power and have the responsibility to represent the Greek democracy should realise it so that it does not cause further harm.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u212	Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u213	We welcome those who are in the streets today and are brooding 'not in the auctions, no house in the hands of a banker, below taxes'. We are with them because it is true that your bill ensures the necessary tools to lose their homes to thousands of debited people's families. That's why both PASOK and the New Democracy are coming out critically, to be dismantled with the opportunity and the memorials that have passed, but to tell you that they are also glad from within, because these wild measures are taken by you and they avoid them. So you legalise auctions with a fragmentation and a categorisation that is flattened. It is supposedly to protect the main residence in poverty. It is the veil of blur, to hide your shame at the release of auctions and confiscation of popular home for the first time in order to ensure the profits of bankers. He's got SYRIZA's signature. In addition, salamification, fragmentation - as one says - is of importance. Greater profitability is the large house in the "fillet" areas on the islands and in the countryside, in order to exploit investment from monopolies rather than the small apartment of the poor. That is why you are first hierarchy in this way, which gives you an alibi to play it gracious, and in fact you are establishing and liberalising auctions and, at the same time, obliging the highly indebted people to pay on much stricter terms the debts, to be hostages of banks. So they're all candidates to take their house out to the hammer. Of course, the government guarantees state money to banking groups, not to lose their profits, not to have the backbone of red loans. Banks are recapitalized with free money taken from looted people's households. That's your policy. As far as wine and excise duty are concerned, you have managed to anger the whole world and the farm once again. You knew the outcry. Several small- and medium-sized winegrowers, both from the European Union's CFP and from their exploiters, great traders and industrialists, who take the crop free and make months to pay them. Over the last 15 years more than 20% have been reduced. We said enough yesterday. We give you the complaints, announcements and statements of many wine cooperatives, from KEOSOE, as well as from Crete, Samos, Nea Anchialo Magnesia and so many others. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And we add the following. Your measure may take it, but you will bring it back again, because it favours the concentration and concentration of the industry in a few large wineries, the ones that remain, the ones that promote European Union and your own policy. With regard to Article 16, where a reduction in the hospital medical expenditure is introduced from 570 million to 530 million in 2018 and includes vaccines and VAT, it will have an impact on the timely provision of high cost medicines for cancer patients and others, as well as a reduction in new medicines that are in a patent, are more expensive, but also more effective, with fewer side effects, etc. The poor world won't have access. At the same time, there will be a tendency to strengthen the prescription of medicines by doctors in order to reduce costs. This means medicines primarily generic, which will be cheaper, but perhaps not the most suitable for the necessary personalised treatment of patients. The Minister for Health spoke last night, but he was also revealing. Deeply concerned about the pharmaceutical industry, but not about the people's world. Finally, on health issues, your class policy is clearly seen. Public health will actually not exist. Whoever's got money will be healthy. As far as the amendments you have tabled are concerned, I will refer to what has increased traffic charges and increased taxation. In fact, the way Mr Alexiadis presented was provocative. It shows only reductions, but not increases. He forgot about them when the final suma is 13 million extra. That is why we say clearly and loudly: no illusions, no waiting. We call on the people's layers through the trade unions and other people's institutions not to allow any people's house to come out into the hammer. To adopt the JRC bill - I hope you will bring it to a vote in Parliament - which prohibits first- and second-local auctions and talks about debt write-offs from interest, drastic cuts in loans that people have had to take for their needs. That is why it is necessary to strengthen the popular alliance of workers, employees, peasants, young people, to overthrow your wild and barbaric policy in order to truly become the domesticist of the wealth produced by the capitalists who want even the people's residence. I also address Mr Theocharis - he is not in the Chamber - by telling him not to confuse consciously or unconsciously the protection of the people's housing with the protection of capitalist property. Don't worry. In the deep, Mr. Chakaloto likes him. He confessed. After all, you are following the same policy, despite the chicken battles. Ultimately, the houses are not taken by the communists, but the bankers with the SYRIZA stadium and none of this acquitted New Democracy - PASOK with the popular demagogue that they have adopted. This is the brutality of capitalism, which you call modern capitalism. You should say hello to him. We'll fight him until we overthrow him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Constantine Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. It could be a formal sitting rather than a thirty-person sitting, as things seem to have come to the closest to achieving the next national objective set by the government, which is once again the dose of one more government. We are the country junky, which goes from week to week or from two to two months to get the dose, and once we get the dose, we reset the national target the next dose to take the month and see. Vision, perspective we'll see after a dose without showing who it is. In the meantime, the recapitalisation of the banks has been completed in the mid-term, apparently, completely in favour of private funds that were able to take their place, as small shareholders were excluded. The CFSF seems to lose control, and what is certain is that Greek taxpayers lose control and all expectations of the approximately 40 billion "invested" from the loans received in previous years to them. They're disappearing, there's nothing left. The big question remains: Is liquidity guaranteed? No one's talking about it. Everyone's talking about capital shortages. Liquidity might be the target of the next dose. Maybe he's the big guy. We listen with great interest to the debate for the first home auctions, whether it would be better or worse, if the banks themselves would do something better, one foreseeing each other. We all know that auctions - in fact the suspension of auctions - are a problem that has to be solved. It was a problem that was a year and went under the carpet and from the previous governments and from the SYRIZA Government, only that, slowly, a lot has been gathered under the carpet, the insurance, the solution to the auctions and many other issues. The old people, let us say, were committed - and were - and their micro-political interests and problems, but, ladies and gentlemen, they had used an extremely effective alibi with regard to the suspension of the auctions, the intransigent attitude of the then-coming SYRIZA: 'No hand...'. I won't say it again, it's been said so many times. I would simply ask you to ask yourself what would happen outside the House in Athens today, if with a government of any other party, and with SYRIZA in Antipolitics, the recapitalisation has coincided with the conditions that are being made today, the auctioning of first home and the tax on wine, because he is also in it. So where did this policy, the policy of shameful and shameful debts, the opposition constantly on the bars? It has led practically, ladies and gentlemen, to the growth of problems. As a divine trial, of course, you are forced to solve them and the tragic one is that you are forced to deal with them right in the political context, in which those you complained about acted. You do little - very much the same - and, if we want to be honest, the auctions a little - very much the same would be done by any government, and if it were to be resolved. It would get a little better, a little worse, but definitely the same way. So you face your reality and self, with your old self, as you effectively refuse to seek out a new one. So the problems that have arisen are being created. Today they are written in a major bill, in the suspension of auctions and in other regulations, nine speakers from the House. That's everyone. You can't be hiding. You have to deal with reality. The reality is that. I am sorry, but there are other bills in the same political context, the old memorial scene. You can't negotiate them that way. There is, of course, always honest - it is true - Mr Sakellaridis's attitude. You quit and you leave or you go to reason to create something within this particular context. It's specific and it's not enough. He wants a political description. The paperwork's fine. They may also be necessary, but they do not come by themselves, nor will they solve the problem. To go through the two issues I would like to raise very quickly, I would say that the wine tax does not solve the problem. One is that, i.e. alcohol. You start creating the feeling that someone from SYRIZA is puritan and has a problem with alcohol in Greece. We passed the tsipouro in Greek beers and there in Greek wine. It's just, or we've deprived of ideas - Mr. Theocharis has made some alternative proposals - or you have an alcohol problem. In fact, you do not have a problem with alcohol in general, but with Greek alcohol, that is, with tsipouro, Greek beers and Greek wine. I hear that you're thinking about this again and that it's going to change and come an equivalent. At some point, of course, this game with the equivalents has to be stopped. However, in any case, the request is the new equivalent not to affect Greek production. Let it touch something else. Let it be something like what Mr. Theocharis said about the junk that's been going through Egnatia for a free year now. Find something that works without affecting Greek production, such as the logic of wine. The other point I would like to raise in the next two minutes is the very interesting article 15 - so I think it is numbered after the repeal of Article 9, correct me if it is wrong - which concerns clawback in hospitals. It's an excellent idea. It seems the Ministry of Health found, first and foremost, what they were looking for from the Middle Ages, that is, the restless. You know, it's the machine that works without external power. From tomorrow, then, hospitals can order anything they like, whatever medicines they want, and the doctors who are well accused of being overwritten will be able to write what they want, that is, original, expensive, more than they need, why someone in the ministry or the EOF - correct me, but the information is that it is not the Troika, but that it was a phenomenal idea of the EOF or the Ministry - it found the terrible trick, that is to say, putting a limit from there and beyond the cost of the drugs to pay the monopolies. Nice! Very nice and revolutionary! Except he hasn't worked that way anywhere in the world. With "so" I mean the method in my village called "bottom-bottom-bottom-bottom-bottom-bottom". Putting a limit on hospitals and from there on, say, "I'm going to debate," he doesn't say anything. Anyone who knows very little how the hospitals work knows that they can't do it. Such methods - I mean, ceiling filter - operate to the extent that they are analyzed and specific and the smaller the window, the more specific they are, the better they work. The clawback works very well possibly as clawback in chemo, while enabling you to check how chemo therapy is done. When claw back is for hospitals, what will actually be done - if it can be implemented, because I doubt it - is that if it wastes chemo therapy, the "Evangelism" will be paid for by antibiotics in Alexandroupolis or vice versa. It's "gutter," we went to get the five hundred sixty, bring them back. It doesn't make any sense. There is a way, and has been implemented in many countries, the closed budget in the departments with a system of incentives and counter-incentives for doctors who prescribe or prescribe, for clinics or departments that go beyond their budget. For companies caught with bad tactics, bad practices, it cannot be applied in the way we say. The Minister will have to sign a long time ago. Knowing him and knowing the companies that this money will never be paid, the companies will very reasonably disappear whatever medicine they estimate is doing them damage and no more profit and they will say: "I have no, I cannot import, I cannot produce any more." And the "bride" who's gonna pay her? Patients who will go, as has been the case for years, to the opposite pharmacy to take the medicines to be hospitalized.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Barriotta, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u217	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a very bad arrangement, in the way it is implemented. It will harm the patients, dismantle the hospitals and possibly harm Greek production. But the main thing is that it will dismantle the hospitals in the way it is implemented. He's gonna have to retire and talk again. We are in favour of filters and measures, but they can be implemented and adequately analysed. I shall end with that because the President-in-Office is right to push me. Once we have to talk seriously. We must once be happy to discuss a policy bill by SYRIZA for health. The last full bill was the former Minister of the New Democracy. Ever since then, we haven't seen anything. We need to see things that I started somewhere, like you used to go up to the bars...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u218	Mr. Comrade, please, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u219	What are you going to do with the JEPs? It is to be implemented in 2017. What are you going to do with the evaluations? Will you abolish the ESDC? Are you gonna merge the hospitals?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Comrade, please, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u221	Do you have a policy to address the problem of the crisis? Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. President, you're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u222	To me and to another President-in-Office, apology doesn't need to be apology. Just because at 19:00 we're closing, they need to speak as many colleagues as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u223	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and five educational attendants from the Selian School of Achaea. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Although you have been distributed with the amendment to reintroduce the VAT exemption to education, not to develop it, I am giving 30 seconds to the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u225	I am delighted to announce the amendment with a general number of 54 and a special 16, which abolishes VAT on education 23% and solves all the possible problems that have arisen in the companies that have joined this scheme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Fokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our subject today is the fair regulation of red loans so that all citizens have first residence, but also the provision of income to the banks, so that they can finance our small and medium-sized heroes. By the way, I say this because we do not encourage the banking market to come up with reliable international and clean banks with plenty of capital and to finance growth at 3% and 4% of interest rates. Also, to introduce a new category of the Bank of Greece, that of the private financial institution, in order to provide microfinance and non-banking institutions, that is to say, to bring "yet" funding to our small and medium-sized heroes to grow or start their own business. The European Union and President Obama have agreed that growth is coming from small and medium-sized enterprises and not from large projects. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now concentrate on the bill. I'm starting with the simple topics. Instead of taxing wine, with Article 14, to find out what the four hundred public bodies that have not been registered are spending, to reduce expenditure, gentlemen, as the Nine Points Association has proposed. Then let's go to Article 16. Reductions in drugs did not contain the costs. Instead of abolishing them, we are now extending the reductions to all public spending on drugs. Since they didn't work on the first time, what makes us think they're gonna work with the second one? I propose that we improve our health system so that it can heal citizens more quickly. I speak, gentlemen, for the days of hospitalization per introduction. Serious institutions, such as Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki - which invests in the quality of its services every year - need fewer and fewer days to heal a patient. The Government has also publicly accepted that it cannot protect the privacy of its citizens. The General Secretariat of Information Systems "done" 150,000 euros fine three years ago, because it had leaked all the elements of our citizens and then declared and failed to protect them. Now before we can even protect them, do we give the VAT and all the citizens' data and ELSTAT with Article 1? Then, in Article 5, we define the remuneration of the staff of the CFSF to be commensurate with the Golden Boys of the banks. Gentlemen, if we want to be competitive with high-payers, then the law is to be paid on the basis of results and not to enjoy any legal protection, just as in the private sector. We should put an end to the unavoidable publicity. In Article 4 we tighten the limits for the loss of regulation as follows: in the month for the next semester, in fifteen days for the aftermath and in a few days for 2017. In 2018, you will be sure that all the settings will be lost. Here our state never repays its debts on time. How dare we ask our citizens to be consistent? Now I'm going to focus on red loans. It seems that Article 15 states that private banks have been unable to manage their homes. Gentlemen, banks know very well which client is not cooperative and how to appreciate the property value, as they know, and how to get even a small sum of what they owe them. Witnesses on this are the thousands of citizens who owed cards and loans and their banks have approached a compromise with 30% and 50% payment on their debts. Let us not forget that objective values only in name are objective. Today real estate has almost no value. In Article 15, gentlemen, we refer all the solution to our already overloaded courts. This, ladies and gentlemen, means that any decisions will come out after years and for banks time is money. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we try first to resolve the differences in red loans out of court so that this can be resolved within a few days. No auctions or nothing. I'm talking about the mediation institution. To meet the bank with the borrower in the presence of a specially trained neutral ombudsman. The Ombudsman will help the parties to reach a solution, which will be an enforceable title, just like a judicial decision. So our citizens will find their point of view with the banks in a few days and our banks will be paid with what they can actually get from the debtor. And once the system works, we extend it to the highly indebted households and the tenants. In this way, we at the same time alleviate the courts and lay the foundations for giving everyone a fair second chance, whether he is a private or a small-scale heroes who work for our unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Ioannis Theophiles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to begin and make it clear, because there is a lot to be said on the channels, on the radios, on the sites and on the world, that the Katseli law was in force, in force and will apply. It doesn't change anything about it, it doesn't remove the Katseli law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u230	The Hatzidakis Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u231	Yes, I'll go through the name of the law. Article 9 of the Katseli Act is amended, in force and will apply - and I repeat it - which concerns the criteria for the protection of first residence, the exception to liquidation, to be precise, of the one property that each natural person who is entitled to this procedure of the Katseli Act is entitled to. That's all that changes. It's not a little bit, it's essential for that, and we're talking about it, but it's not what it sounds like and people think the Katselis law is being abolished, and now we're going to zero. It's still true. What does that mean in practice? That those who filed and filed applications after 1-1-2016 and with the new law will file an application - they will be tried, they will receive a provisional order, suspend the fight against it, have the pre-trial conciliation procedure. These must be said, they must be cleared up because there is a risk, as in other bills that have passed since the beginning of our term of office, which does not stand, is not true. In fact, because there is also the question of the transitional period, you will see that this 25% will have a dilemma on what provisions to choose. If they have the option to apply now by 31 December or after 1 January, the poor people's layers will see in practice - I know that because I have handled such cases as a lawyer and I am handling - they will have a dilemma of what provisions to choose. Why? The ones that we bring today for 25%, as has been estimated, for poor folk layers are to the best and you will see that in practice they will be preferred by poor populace layers. And, of course, I can only comment on the fact that, suddenly, the law for some of Parliament's wings has become indiscriminate. Our people know him, it is the Katseli law, it went through the history of it and it is now annoying the political choice of the minister who proposed it and passed it through the House. The story wrote and writes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u232	PASOK passed him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u233	It is stated that 'the two-protected' existed. They don't understand what's called it. Date of birth: (a) Approximately 1966. From 1-1-2015, there is only the law of Katseli to protect the first residence. Don't tell us "your hands" and more. I don't accept that - if there's a history of rotting in your hands, it doesn't mean it's your fault - it's still not true. The reality, then, is that from 1-1-2015 - it must finally be cleared up, has been said by many colleagues - after the end of the validity of Law 4224/2013, it is not the second protection, which was the umbrella for all Greeks, it is only the Katseli law - that means that the merchants have a question and, in fact, what is in place is the gentlemen's agreement, banks with borrowers - which, therefore, still applies today. We have said this in committee yesterday, now I have two minutes to go, but I can only mention what Mr Tsakalotos said, and the previous government, and it also appeared in the response from the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Vane, to a question from our MEP, Mr Papadimoulis, was probably preparing and abolishing or much worse terms than those of the Katsel. And we saw the systemic media, as we said yesterday, the war they fought against Greek society when talking about batters with a lot of intensity and repeating, because they obviously wanted to go through much worse conditions than the present ones. We've forgotten about these bastards now. We didn't talk or talk about bastards. The Greek society had the most "green loans" when it was the Greek family at its best. He had one of the fewer red loans in the European Union, because he was paying for this, and even if the borrowers didn't care about the abusive terms of the banks, because he was overtaken the income and said: 'It's okay with one another.' There really are no bats in the Greek families, but there are small, medium and large incomes now regulated in a different way. The compromise is a compromise. He has his positives and his negatives, but he deals with the poor strata and with honesty in the middle. The big ones will be dealt with by regulation with the Code of Conduct and they can get through it. When someone has an income of over 36,000-40,000 euros, he can make a regulation with the bank. I will repeat, that the money we are looking for now, the red loans, was lost when they were given and not now that they'red' loans and large sums were lost when the banks' administrations provided large loans to the banking, segregation and media system. This bill, in addition to the positive ones that Mr Pinheiro had. 4336/2015 - which are also included in the tax and tax arrangements at TEBE and the total deletion of up to EUR 20,000 for the unemployed who has no assets - is not very small. It's the improved protection. For the first time, it is predicted that the state will pay the instalment to those who have low incomes. We're not talking about zero income. We are talking about low incomes, that is to say, the limits of poverty. For the remaining 35%, it will be about what is currently the case. They'll pay a dose according to their powers. In addition to the rest that has been mentioned by colleagues, trade value is positive, I think they need to be cleared up in proposals. Minister Stathakis said so many times. I think it is right that it should also be written as a legislative improvement where it says that the entry into force of the paragraph is from 1-1-2016, that applications submitted before that date are governed by the preceding article, Article 9(2). Also, for cooperative - because it is referred to as "to have been cooperative with the borrower at the time of the initial delay" - it is good that the notion of cooperating should be from the entry into force of this law, because in practice, Minister, the banks have now sent the letters. You said it was done and you're covering us. And what was mentioned by the Opposition for the low 25%'subsequent mortgage debtor', I think it can enter'supporter with a collateral loan'. In any case, what Mr Karathanasopoulos referred to, and I am closing down, Mr President, that he has left, he has indeed left, but the borrower may apply for reform when he loses control, because he has a reduction in income, so he will deal with it in this way. In relation to what Mr Theocharis said about seismicism, we do not know whether this could be done, However, there will be no resentment of the mistakes of the old political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, too. For practical reasons, the legislative proposals you propose must be written on paper and give them to the Minister if he wants to adopt them. The Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, Mr Evangelos Karakostas, has the floor. Immediately after the speech, Mr. Vesiropoulos, Mr. Beyalas, Mr. Hatzidakis and Mrs. Catherine Papanatziou will be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u235	The deposit of this bill is another proof of what the Golden Dawn supports, namely that the SYRIZA Government is a special mission government. As the Samara government was the only one that could take over, and took the illegal and unconstitutional political persecution of the Golden Dawn, in a similar way, the Tsipras government is the only government that could bring unprecedented anti-grass measures, which affect not only the economic life of the country, but are much more aimed at the hard core of Greek society. What does SYRIZA - ANEL Government want with this bill? It implements the plans of the international loan sharks to put hands on the real estate of the Greeks. Why? Because today the proportion of the property in Greece is particularly high, which is causing the avengering mania of Brussels' loan sharks. They aim to reach the levels of the countries of Central Europe, which is 40% to 50% from 80% to which they are now. It is only a reproach that it refers cynically to the bill that the proposed provisions aim to maximise the compliance of debtors who have regulated their debts to prevent them from creating new debts. The aim of the government is to reiterate the violent evictions of Greek citizens from their homes, just as it is - and it has happened in the past - in Spain. These properties of the Greeks will pass into the hands of foreign funds, which will buy massively red loans and then install millions of illegal immigrants, who are now illegally in our country. "First time auctions", therefore, by the Left-Government, which is supposed to protect - as it states - 25% of borrowers, leaving to the mercy of bankers and loan sharks all the rest. It writes in the bill in Article 15: The debtor should cumulatively meet the following conditions: His family income available should not exceed the reasonable living costs increased by 70% as set out in the bill. The objective value of the residence at the time of the application does not exceed EUR 180,000 for the single debtor, plus EUR 40,000 for the married debtor and EUR 20,000 for each child and up to three children. The property for which the application is made is its main residence. With regard to debts, the borrower must have been cooperative within the meaning of the Code of Conduct at the time of the initial delay of the loan. What does that mean? Under these conditions it is estimated that seven out of ten Greek houses will be the raft of bank or international houses in which the precarious red loans will be sold. In this way, sixty thousand red loans are exposed and, as the government claims, about a hundred thousand are secured, which meet the conditions set. Participation in the new framework is based on the following criteria: The amount of the objective real estate value and the annual income of the borrower. The dose will be calculated from the current commercial value, from the conduct of the borrower and from its total assets. This assessment will be carried out by special committees to the banks, which will assess the financial capacity and openness of borrowers. A characteristic of the reasoning of the left-wing government is that special care is taken to avoid harming the interests of creditors, i.e. banks, as stated in the bill, since the amount they receive under the regulation is set at the basis of the amount they would receive in the event of the debtor’s principal residence being enforced. Thus, in one way or another, i.e. by enforced or the instalment mechanism, the bank loses no right to an exception not rarely. The assessment of this amount shall be carried out by a special expert designated by the court. We are now going to the experts for whom a special register of experts is to be set up at local courts. Nowadays, they are pending in the pacifist courts for subjecting the Katseli law to court proceedings, which reach 2030 and 2032 because of the scale of the applicants for their loans. How do the Heads of the Treasury believe that the project with the experts, who - not least - may be required to give an opinion on each of the cases separately thirty days before the application is discussed, will be able to yield even minimally in the volume of those who will be inclined to arrange their instalments so that they do not lose the property? We are talking about total irrationality and a new deception of citizens with the argument that the first residence is protected. Let's go down. Next innovation of the "socially sensitive" Left, the one who proudly declared that he will apply the memorandum with a social sign, the invention of the cooperating borrower. This invention leaves the borrower fully to private individuals, bank executives, employees, etc., who not only informs his or her personal data - property, accounts, mobiles, immovable property, family members etc. - but it is also obliged for the loss of regulation to inform them of any new change in its personal situation, even for a health problem, which may have cost him money and not be able to cope with the regulation or for a legacy that he won or a lottery. This transfer of all personal data to unscrupulous economic loan sharks and their employees is only not a democracy. Other achievements of the Left-wing Government: Article 2. Selection of cases to be checked by the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. The tax administration bodies are amputated in advance by all disciplinary, criminal or civil liability in cases which they consider as a priority and which have been assigned to them for scrutiny - paragraph (b) - as well as the Secretary-General for Public Revenue for a recommendation or a decision he has taken in the same context, paragraph (e). And all that on the left is unresected and irresistible as a protection indicator for borrowers. Even worse, what the SYRIZA spokesman, his rapporteur, said yesterday. "We give..." - he said - "...a second chance for borrowers to become decent households again." These "worthy households", that is, the Greek, that is, the middle class, is the one which will end the immunity of bankers and loan sharks and the government's immunity. For these - the bankers, that is, the loan sharks - the current government is working, as was the previous government! Whether, then, with a SYRIZA - ANEL Government or a New Democracy Government - PASOK, the only winner of what you are bringing here, which you are simply translating - another innovation of your own is that the process must be completed by 20.00, at least before they were brought in, translated and done until late work, now set a time limit by 20.00, as we have heard a moment ago - are the international loan sharks. National resistance, therefore, becomes the greatest task for the Greeks. The People's Association - Golden Dawn, therefore, is not a simple political choice, but the conscious struggle for survival of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Besiropoulos has the floor. Here comes Mr. Beyalas and Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how many Members of the government majority are proud of the way in which the government brings the bills to Parliament. It will be news when, at some point, the government brings the House a bill with normal and normal parliamentary procedures and not with urgency. The dynamic of the illusions you cultivated was exhausted. In the September elections you told 35% of the Greek people that you were negotiating hard. How many, though, can you convince us today after all that you bring to the vote and after all that you have agreed to and come to the near future? All of this is your responsibility and your choices and leave aside the fairy tale of so-called negotiation, because the measures are your choice. Your choice and not of lenders is 23% of VAT on education. Your choice is to impose the special tax on Greek wine. Your choice was overtaxation in tourism. Your responsibility is that the country came back, found with its back on the wall, closed banks, imposed capital controls and a new need to recapitalise. Your responsibility and your work is to return to the deficits and the new memorandum - which is the most painful one - when the country would close the assessment last January and enter a preventive support line. Mr. Varoufakis, who chose him? The one who chose him doesn't have a responsibility? Did he not see what happened between January and July in the country? Not to mention the punctual memory referendum, which you probably want to forget. No one's talking about this anymore. It's like it didn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have talked about supposedly negotiating. If it is the negotiation that you are making to have the results that we see and bring such bills to the House, with measures that dissolve the real economy and social cohesion, you should stop negotiating. Just wait for the translation of those who send you. I don't know how many of you are proud to come for the third time and change the setting for the hundred doses. There are citizens and businesses who have joined this arrangement with some firmness. And you come for the third time and you change these constants. Do you think that with these practices there can be a relationship of citizens' trust with the state? This fact alone demonstrates the curiosity and improvisations with which you move and legislate. I am going to refer to the regulation on red loans. I am a long way away from populism. Others were the ones who said from the Step of this House, "No house in the hands of a banker". It's not the only thing you said and you had to swallow it. However, we are now facing an extreme situation where thousands of citizens are left uncovered in auctioning. You voted against Mr. Hatzidakis' law, which protected 90% of borrowers from auctions and in full agreement with the banks. Are you satisfied with the arrangement you are bringing today? Then vote for it and then go to the people to tell them about the "surprise" and all these flimsies, which are now graphics and offend the intelligence of the citizens. Some say that the need to regulate red loans has emerged as a need for the banks to be recapitalised. But how did the problem arise with the banks? Because in 2014 they had become stress test and there was no problem. The problem has arisen since the beginning of 2015, with the climate of instability and destabilisation. Tell me honestly, do you believe that the specific arrangements you bring protects your first residence? I invite you to compare these arrangements with the corresponding regulations of the Hatzidakis Act, by n. 4224 that you voted against. The law that we brought and voted on, n. 4224, had established the protection of the first home for a year from potential auctions if the first home was of an objective value not exceeding EUR 200,000 and the total real estate of EUR 270,000, while the annual net - not gross - family income of the debtor was less than EUR 35,000. This law covered 90% of red loans so that some of the auctions would not lose their homes. Loaners had to pay the banks for their loans an amount equal to 10% of their net monthly income, since the annual family income did not exceed EUR 15 000 and 20% if they had an income above this limit. For third-country and multi-stage families, for AMEs and citizens who had as protected members of AMEs, these limits were up 10%, which you didn't even think about joining this bill. You're coming today and you're firing off a brassy social bomb. With the provisions of the bill you leave 75% of the debtors uncovered and the way to the auctions opens, through which many of them will lose their homes. With your arrangement, borrowers lose their right to protection if their income is not sufficient to serve the loan. Of course we do not consent to the protection of those who have great property and who did not pay. We are talking about medium-income, the average Greek family. And you're actually sacrificing them. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has a distorted general view of equivalence. Equivalent, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the transfer of burdens from one sector to another. There must be a sense of reality. You don't have that feeling. And you didn't have it when you yourself suggested 23% VAT on education, on the grounds that the measure did not hurt your voters until you knew that each Greek family was hurt. VAT 23% on education was not a creditors' proposal, as you originally wanted to present. It was all yours! The Commission itself has disproved you. You are now coming, after a four-month search, and you are imposing a special tax on Greek wine, on a wine-producing country such as Greece, with an export activity, when no other wine-producing country in Europe has been understood to impose such a tax. What do you do? You reduce the competitiveness of the dynamically developing Greek winemaking and, respectively, strengthen imported products. The same thing you went to do with the Greek brewery companies. A repetitive coincidence ceases to be a coincidence. A thousand wineries, twenty thousand workers and two thousand winegrowers are at the forefront of Mr. Tsipras' government. We call on you to withdraw this provision and we call on the Members to assume their responsibilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Mr Alexiadis said yesterday that the government is making second thoughts and ended up with the heroic, "The government is fighting, negotiating and finding the best solution for citizens." But, Minister, your idea was to impose a special tax on Greek wine! Who are you clashing with? With yourself? As far as the other equivalent is concerned, I do not know whether you have taken into account the impact of the fall in cigarettes, but above all, of the reinforcement of illegal gambling. I'm closing down with a brief reference to the arrangement for unresolved rents, which shows the extent to which you have been stricken. What are you doing? You force the owners to go to court, with all that means to cost, time and money, just to prove that they are not elephants and that the rents have not been collected. Ladies and gentlemen, the government conflicts with itself, its ideas, its reality and, above all, the lies it has told the citizens. It's a pretext to lead to a dead end. Your deadlock, however, cannot be converted daily into a dead end of the country and of the citizens. There must be a new national plan immediately, a plan which you do not have, nor can you serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u238	My colleague, Mr. Beyalas, has the floor. This fuck, what does he need, Mr. Comrade? Take it off so we can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u239	It fills the last name, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u240	You're absolutely right, and he wants an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u241	That's how he wants an explanation. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u242	It's full of the last name, though. It's not empty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u243	We've been talking about it. It's three in a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u244	Well, if anyone finds out, then they don't forget it. He's got his positive. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time we are voting on this bill, which the government has brought to the House through a forced route to vote for the prerequisites, which are necessary to complete the recapitalisation of the banks, but also to disbursement of the 2 billion-dollar subsistence. There is no doubt that much is said here in the Chamber. However, we see that there is indeed a great deal of capacity and power - I would say - by the Vice-Presidents that they can falsify things, do the white and at the same time rely on the oblivion of the Greek people. We have some specific data. Greece has been under supervision since 2010. And SYRIZA didn't put it in her. Three recapitalisations have been made, which have failed. Not all of these were taken into account in the parameter of red loans. There are the red loans, however, which some have 'blackened' them. Did you miss that? Does it miss you that in 2010 5% of the loans were unserved? Today why is 50%? It was the policies that were implemented that brought the world to despair, that made the well - paid Greek bad payers. Do we forget that these red loans were being given in simplicity? One forgets from all of us here that when you went to get a housing loan for real estate of EUR 100,000 - its commercial value was EUR 120,000 and EUR 150,000 - the bank told you, "I'll give you a repair, I'll give you another". They gave them simple. Where did the banks rely and thus give the loans? They don't have a responsibility in this area? And the policies that were implemented did not play any role? They were also given holiday loans, holidays, party loans, loans to the media. For all this, gentlemen, you who have ruled these years are not responsible? And is SYRIZA responsible for coming today to take off the hot potato through the fire? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is necessary, but it is also positive, it has a positive dimension, because no one here can claim that there are no Greeks who can pay and pay. We all know that. There are Greeks who can pay and don't pay, within this swan, in this feeling that we don't pay, because we're going to lose. Yes, the recapitalisations of the previous years have been made. Whoever they paid, they thought of themselves then stupid. And here comes the bill to give the solution. Either way, you cannot overlook that 25% of borrowers are completely protected. And not just that. If there is a debtor who is unable to repay even the small dose, then the state that pays it comes. This is the first time. We have the second scale that includes the remaining 35%. Why does it seem strange to you? Up to 35,000 euros income can be adjusted. And it regulates the best conditions on the market. Who are they? That the amount of the instalment would be at the commercial value of the property, i.e. at the current rental price of such a property. Isn't that a facility for borrowers? Why are you talking about seizures? Where are the seizures at this level? You are relying on the fact that you can easily falsify the facts. You do not take the responsibility of placing you positively, critically, with severe criticism, but not with zero-neutralist logic and riskies. And we have the remaining percentage of borrowers, the remaining 40%, which is not covered by this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, a borrower who has an income of EUR 40,000 can arrange for himself and with agreement with the bank the repayment of his loan. He can do it. Why doesn't he? We said. We also have the phenomenon of those who don't want to do it and don't pay. Do you think the real estate seizures and auctions will begin? In no case will that happen. And you know that better than I do because you have years in the parliamentary headquarters. There's no chance of auctioning. Why? Because the banks don't want the real estate. The repayment of their loans is what they want. But to those who can pay and do not pay, all the bill gives them is the possibility of calling and pressing them to start paying. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make things clear, as far as 100 instalments are concerned. There's a route, this law, a positive route. It came out of New Democracy first. However, the citizens did not join, because they had many parameters, which did not allow the debtor to join the public. The previous government law incorporates too many public debtors. Today it is not abrogated. There is still, giving thirty days until 30-6-2016, fifteen days until 31-12-2016 if there is arrears due again 15 days if there is billions of non-payment of the dose. It's not abolished. Why are you overlooking it and saying it's abolished? With regard to unrealistic rents, I think the law is moving in a positive direction. Personally, when the previous debate was held, I was put to the committee and said that the provision, which gives it to the public, had to be applied again. But the results of the Ministry of Finance and experience have shown that this has no effect. However, today, the owners of property that have unrealistic rents will not be taxed under this provision for unrealistic rents, only taxed when they receive them. I cannot understand why you are opposed to this provision. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something that I did not like. Mr Brutsis made a reproach as to whether Members of Parliament are on the channels and say whether the Scotch tax should go into the Scotch tax - I made such a proposal yesterday to the committee - and not to the wine and see what we are going to do. I cannot understand Mr. Brutsi's discomfort. For two reasons, I could imagine it. One reason is that a province MP came out by phone to some media in the capital city. Unless he bothered him that my proposal - even if accepted - would be a burden on the whiskey he might drink. I personally drink wine and enjoy it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are enacting the lifting of protection for debts in banks and the lifting of protection of first residence for thousands of borrowers. All of them living in this place are now turning into candidate homeless. I'm not saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u247	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u248	Bravo! Bravo! I'm glad for your reactions. You just know, ladies and gentlemen, that you have rushed to react, that I am not saying all of this. Your Chief, Alexis Tsipras, said it on December 21, 2013 from this step. [[Applause]] What did Mr. Tsipras not like? It didn't like a system that covered 90% of borrowers. I've told it here since, in reply to Mr. Tsipras. He did not like that there was a system that did not even lead to an auction for debts to banks in terms of first residence. That's what you didn't like. What was the system you didn't like? It was a two-axle system. The first axis was extrajudicial protection. There was then, by this law, for a year of protection with certain criteria laid down in the law - and I do not need to repeat them, because I do not have much time, EUR 200,000 objective value of first residence and so on. - and there was also a code of conduct, which would apply from there and beyond in the Irish model, in order also to resolve the disputes extrajudicially. They didn't like you, neither did they. You didn't even like the second axis of the system. What axis? The law of Katseli. Because when the previous government brought him, you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, did not vote for him. It seemed to you that this law was inadequate. You like Mrs. Katseli today, you didn't like her law at the time. So you were opposed to everything, both to temporary protection and code of conduct and to Katseli Law. What does a man expect in common sense? When this government comes, which does not like anything, to bring even more complete protection, to cover the expensive suburbs of Athens and Thessaloniki. What about this government, your government? What's up today? 90% of absolute protection is limited to 25%. You didn't like 90%, you like 25%. You're expensive in pie and you're cheap in flour! The second thing that has happened is that extrajudicial protection no longer exists in the sense of prolongation, even though you were accusing us of keeping or keeping the code of conduct in the future. And you did not only blame us before the elections - take care - but you blame us - and the Prime Minister yourself - and after the elections, promising that you would not rely on the code of conduct, but that you would bring in new extensions according to the patterns of old extensions. Well, that promise went to the candlestick. And, thirdly, this disgraceful, the disgraceful and burdensome code of conduct remains and we heard the ministers yesterday make him flagged, because you incorporate him in a way in this legislation. And, of course, in addition to this, the Katseli law itself, which was the last refuge for those who were not covered by extrajudicial protection, is "trained" because that is what this is all about. The current piece of legislation is the "contributory" of Katseli Law. I, ladies and gentlemen, said what I said in 2013. In a golden incision I believed in 2013, in a golden incision I believe now. But you, saying 'no' to 90% coverage in 2013, say 'yes' to 25% coverage today. And I honestly would like to ask you: How do you feel within you? I would really like to hear your conversations. What do you say to each other that you came and conquered us, the so-called neoliberals? You, when you come and pass these measures in your private conversations, what do you say? And I can only note Mr Sakellaridis' positive attitude. I do not recognize ideologically and politically with him. But at least I guess man's all right with his conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u249	Oh, now it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u250	You really, ladies and gentlemen, what do you say to your friends and your voters? How will you stand against this matter? I understand that you will say 'the circumstances have changed, the circumstances have been difficult, the problem of red loans is more acute now'. Answer: Who did this? Who talked about seismicism, loan gifts, which made people who might have been able to pay, not to pay lately? Who gave up the banking system at God's mercy, making it a ‘empty shirt’ again? Who? You, of course, have your promises and your omissions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Secondly, you will say 'we have torn our shirts' again, 'we have been negotiating for many days'. The ministers told us yesterday. You could perhaps negotiate a few months. The question is what the results are. And here we have two comparable sizes. We have our own negotiation on the same subject, which resulted in protection of 90%, and your own negotiation, which resulted in protection of 25%. What should we do with your good intentions? You have no corresponding positive results. And that's what matters. Third line of defense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u251	And the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u252	Third line of defence, the attack on the New Democracy, supposedly Mr. Catinen's answer, which he said? That there will be a framework of protection for the weak, an allowance like the one provided for in today's law. However, the Samara government has never discussed the abolition of the Katseli law or "confidence". And that is our qualitative difference, ladies and gentlemen. Find them in this, too, with your conscience. One last thing, Mr President. I was supposed to say more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u253	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u254	But I think it is very substantial and I want Mr Stathakis to reply. And I want you to listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen, before you vote at night, to what I'm saying. It says that, as it speaks of 180,000 and 120,000 etc., the following, which our rapporteur, Mr Dendias rightly pointed out yesterday, must not undermine the collective satisfaction of the creditors. The collective satisfaction of the creditors is considered to be inconsistent if the arrangement provides that creditors will find themselves in a worse economic position than the one in which they would be in the event of enforcement. In just Greek, I want to explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Hatzidakis, please very much, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u256	I shall conclude, Mr President. Give me a minute. It's very important...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u257	Excuse me. I've given you two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u258	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u259	Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u260	Katseli Law said that by divesting your rest of the property, you save your first residence. With this arrangement, and if your rest of your property is dived, if it isn't enough, you're losing your first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u261	No, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u262	You will vote, if you keep this arrangement, to lose a number of borrowers and their first residence. In fact, you even obligate the weakest borrowers to pay their home as if they were buying it out of auction! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So please, Minister, take this arrangement back, which is, at best, a huge gave. Find out another time what arrangements you bring and suggest colleagues to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u263	Mr. Hatzidakis, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u264	You, ladies and gentlemen - call for your conscience - do not vote for this regulation in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u265	All the important points are dealt with at the end. Tell them at the beginning, everybody. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the Terpsitheas Larissa Municipal School. We welcome you to Athens and the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor, then the Parliamentary spokesman for the Potamio is followed by Mr Dannelis and is starting another quadrant with Mrs Canelle, Mrs Jufi, Mrs Kerameos and Mr Koutsoukos. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the start with this bill to disburse the first instalment and the second major step is taken following the draft law on the recapitalisation of banks. Now, following the successful conclusion of the consultations with creditors, we can proceed with the latest prerequisites so that the disbursement of EUR 2 billion immediately followed, while capital armour will proceed after the opening of the tenders for capital increases. The immediate result of the above is to open the debt debate, which in turn will lay the right foundations to solve the problem of the suffocation of the Greek economy, which, together with the recapitalisation, will seal the capital adequacy of the banking institutions of the country. So, after we closed the deal in the summer with time pressure, with blackmail for Grexit, we informed the Greek people that we will implement the agreement where we agree, but we will negotiate on these points that we disagree. Today's bill includes, among other things, the protection of first homes from auctions, the medicine, the regulation of hundreds of instalments, the replacement of VAT equivalent to the 2016 education and traffic charges. I would, however, like to focus on some points relating to red loans, the most burning issue of this negotiation, the final agreement covers about 60% of borrowers. I believe that the majority of colleagues would like 100% of the borrowers to be protected. What we can do, however, today will cover four hundred thousand over-day housing debtors, who will no longer be in danger of losing their homes. First, as regards the claimants of the Katseli Act, the borrowers who have applied and have not been tried, as well as those who apply until 31-12-2015, are covered by the previous law. With regard to this arrangement, borrowers will be divided into two groups. As far as the first group is concerned, this represents about 25% of the total with the lowest incomes and protection will be easier and overall with the previous arrangement. Let us look at it a little more thoroughly: for 25% of borrowers in the most ill economic situation, the limit of the objective value of the first home was set at EUR 170,000, regardless of the family situation. The income criteria will be based on the decent living limit. This covers 100% of the borrowers in this category. Also - and here is a very important point in this particular group of borrowers, who have the lowest income - there will also be the payment of a EUR 100 million allowance so that they can serve their obligations towards the banks if they cannot serve the instalments. This means that in this category any income deficit exists to serve this loan will now be covered by the State. With regard to the second group, which ranks about 35% of borrowers, an extrajudicial procedure will also be provided for in which a monthly instalment, which the borrower will have to cover, will be obtained in order to maintain the possibility of exempting from the auction. Nevertheless, the following criteria will apply to this category of borrowers: the objective value of real estate and the income criterion, which will be the result of a decent living threshold again. Thus, the new law provides for a coverage of about 60% of households with incomes of up to 35,500 euros. Another very important element that will significantly increase the coverage of these borrowers is the following: Dose determination in this category will be done with the current commercial value of the property, which is certainly lower than when the debtor borrows, since we all know it has been reduced from 40% to 50%. This is equivalent to a haircut for the loan by adjusting the loan to the benefit of households. The first to be protected from the regulation we have in the law today is society. The issue of red loans and first home auctions is a time bomb. Greece records a sad world first. If the issue is not resolved, there can be no recovery. There is the key to the recapitalisation of the banks. The two previous recapitalisations from the previous governments did not solve the question, but they moved it forward, with Greek taxpayers already paying the sum of EUR 60 billion from their downturn. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the negotiation started with the demand of lenders for protection only with 16% -20%. Does that mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we have won or lost? I would like to begin by saying that the creditors have insisted on strengthening early payment culture and evacuating from the hundred-dollar regulation, even for one day in another tax payment, which would have happened in the past, before the hundred-dollar regulation was lost, even for one day's inconsistency. It will maintain the 30-day grace period until 30-6-2016 and gradually reach the absence of one. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] The negotiating point and the disagreement we had with the lenders who wanted no debtor to take part in other favorable arrangements was won if he is in the setting of a hundred instalments. There is no opportunity for the debtor to enter 12 instalments and other arrangements for new debts that he cannot repay in due time to inform the tax authorities of the inability to pay. I would like to point out here that this is the first time that debts have been adjusted before they are due. Thus, the debtor maintains the arrangement as long as the new debts have not become overdue. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] With regard to the taxation of rent income, you were concerned, ladies and gentlemen, that the SYRIZA Government would tax unrealistic rents. Article 12 requires such income to be taxed in the year and to the amount which has been established, by way of derogation from the provisions of Article 8. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, I should like to conclude by saying that there is a relief in the bill by means of the registration fees for vehicles authorised by the year 2000, which reaches up to EUR 100 analogously, i.e. cubic cars. Such reductions also come to the vehicle from 2001 to 2005. Finally, you cannot give up on the red loan arrangement that we have inherited. For television reasons, you can say what you want, but Mr Katinen gave it to the truth - even though Mr Hatzidakis, the previous speaker, raised it - in a question to the European Parliament by Mr Papadimoulis. The truth is that the Samara government had agreed to total liberalisation of auctions and to sell distress funds. In conclusion, I would also remind you that you can't make politics with the thief and the officer. The regulation of government instalments, Samaras, was to be lost without one day's prolongation if a new debt appeared. You baptize her successfully...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u267	Ms. Papanaceu, I think you've had enough. You've already reached one and a half minutes. Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u268	Wait a second. In our own arrangement, to be on the reverse, to win or to lose the household and the businessman? Rather, you continue to be on the dogma of zero tolerance and the economy, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u269	The European Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Dannelis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, I would like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Lambroulis, we also have the vow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u272	Mr Dannelly, because Mr Vernardakis' oath was pending, let us finish the oath and then you will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u273	Sure. He's ahead of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u274	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will take the oath of Mr Christofordakis, who replaces Mr Gabriel Sakellaridis, who resigned. Mr Christoforos Vernardakis is called upon to come and give a vow under the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[This is where the Member, Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, comes in and gives the following oath:]] “I assure my honor and conscience that I will be faithful in my homeland and democratic city, I will obey the Constitution and the laws, and I will be conscientiously fulfilling my duties”
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u275	Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u276	Good power! Mr. Dannelly, just one more minute. The Minister, Mr Alexiadis, has asked for the floor to table some legislative improvements. Here you go, Mr. Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u277	A legislative improvement will be submitted in Article 12 of the draft law, at the special game fee per column. In addition, under the heading of the ‘Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms’ legislation, the words ‘and other provisions’ should be completed after the word ‘reforms’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u278	I would ask that they be distributed to this House. Mr Danellis, the Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Bernardakis, I wish you good strength, good and useful work. Ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of Sakellaridis - obviously for which no one can rejoice - is nothing but the top of an iceberg, an iceberg which is the price of the SYRIZA's violent impact on reality. The tactics of the pillaging of the ears, populism and demagogue, as well as the persistence of lying, lead to fatality in the sweater. The "double" syndrome, the SYRIZA-Government, and at the same time SYRIZA-Policy, as another phenomenon "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde" can only create similar phenomena. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a massive mobilization of farmers from all over Greece. And this time you were not, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, on the same side as farmers. And to think that it is these farmers who massively supported SYRIZA in the last elections. They experienced firsthand the election lies of the Prime Minister, as well as, unfortunately, the chemicals of your left government. Yet, it was not inevitable to cast them. Furthermore, last night it was not considered appropriate to cast them into the customary destruction of the Stournaris road by the “unknown - unknown”. But you, too, experienced a classic reversal, an irony of history. Finally from your moto "no house in the hands of a banker" we reached 100,000,000 euros as a guarantee for three hundred thousand borrowers. Are you planning this amount to save three hundred thousand homes? We wonder what more were the lenders who didn't accept it? Will this be the famous'social protection net' for red loans? From the protection of all, even those who could pay, did we go through protection only for so few? Go from one end to the other. When we said "yes, no house in the hands of a banker", but "no house is given," you sold seismics. Here's the results! Now you discover the cost of populism and your ideoleptic obsessions. Only this cost is not only for you, but also for every citizen in this country. With the third package of prerequisites you bring for a vote in this House, we wonder what your development plan is for the country and what the model of productive reconstruction that you were electorally formulating. In the previous package of prerequisites we fought to save the small but dynamic Greek breweries. This time, by ignorance or suggestion of others, your government is destroying Greek wine production. And the sum of 40 cents per litre is not negligible. Unfortunately, due to the impossibility and incompetence of the government to find these months credible - this is a fairy tale of the equivalents, which is equivalent to that of the red lines a few months ago - in the VAT on education and in the panic of the last minute, where with the knife in the neck we have to accept anything, you open the door that for years the lobby of hard alcoholic drinks has been trying to open up throughout Europe. It should be noted that Greece alone imposes excise duty on wine in the European Union, a tax that is absurd since we are not talking about a dangerous health product or a luxury product but about a Greek local agricultural product. And we must not forget that the European Union, which is extremely sloppy in protecting the free market's products, provides, by means of a directive from far away '60, for wine, the possibility for Member States which are wine producers to determine zero excise duty on alcohol in wine. Did you choose consciously or ignorantly the destruction of a sector with particular dynamics, with rapid quality development in recent years, opened with claims on the international market? Here too, we need to know that the industry is dynamic but also extremely fragile. It is a sector that has to face strong international competition, has to deal with the prohibition of new plantings, has to deal with the continuing decline in the extent of the Greek vineyard and of course bear the highest pan-European VAT of 23%. The inappropriate choice to choose as the equivalent of the country's winemaking industry will surely also carry a number of pathogens that today characterize and plague the sector of the domestic production of spirits - raki, raccoon - and winemaking. With regard to the charge of Greek wine for 40 minutes per litre, when the broad consumption of bulk wine costs the winemaker about 40 minutes and when, respectively, 40 minutes is the cost of imported bulk wine from Italy or Spain, you understand that its doubling of 40 minutes of excise duty makes it extremely difficult for this whole market to continue to exist. And of course it will inevitably lead to illegal sales, the deterioration of the product, the intensity of unfair competition, and ultimately the dismantling of a potential, as I said just now, industry. It would be interesting to hear the opinion of the friend Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostle. He was just here, and I hope he'll give us some explanations, if he knew, if he knows and agrees to this treatment. In relation to the much-advertised regulation of the hundreds of doses, which was the flagship of the legislative work of your previous seven-month government, we note that for many time the conditions for staying in the regulation are stricter. Beyond the substance of the provisions, I think we are playing a dangerous game in the field of citizens' tax awareness, because tax consciousness is not created through repetitive and mutually different provisions, nor is it independent of the citizens' growing tax capacity. Finally, the famous negotiation with the institutions on what is involved, since all the important things are constantly falling back? Is it just transitional provisions? Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have been mentioned several times by this Step in the pattern of problematic legislation that you are following and tending to become a tradition. Legislation by improvising, sketchy and improvised, under panic, since time never exists since you exhaust it in your monumental negotiating tactics. Article 2 of this draft law constitutes a monument of ambiguity and an example of rough legislation. We are also trying to determine whether the mistakes by mistake, which we are constantly coming with subsequent bills to correct, are products of legal insufficiency or evil intentions. However, with regard to the critical amendments that always come at the last minute, critical amendments such as those we have today for the vote and which relate to changing the method of calculating car taxes are another indication of the duplication, unfortunately, in which you are looking for resources and also the ad hoc procedures that characterise, as I have said before, the way in which you are legislating. First, the whole strategic design for the replacement of old cars with new models of high technology and low pollutants goes for a walk. You impose a new charge on all those who since 2010 have taken care to replace their car, the end of which is between EUR 80 and 90, continuing to cultivate a destructive confidence among the citizens, the citizens' unconfidence of the state. To have a full picture of what I am saying, it is enough to see that only thirty-eight changes, replacements, demolitions, additions or abolitions of articles in laws that you have introduced in the last few years and some of which we have voted on. For example, the law on the third memorandum you negotiated and brought to the vote one day before the 15th century, you have already changed it eight times. In support of what I am saying, I am tabling a relevant table on this subject with these constant changes and amendments. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, you are sadly inconsistent once again. Not only for the citizens, unfortunately, but also for yourself. With one hand, you write bills, and with the other you erase them. This practice reveals amateurism, a deficiency, a sloppyness. But above all, it shows the unconsciousness of the seriousness needed to deal with the chronic illnesses that afflict the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. You insist on hiding behind your finger. You are postponing the areas and reforms that so much need the place and society and you are trying in every way to mock the ears of your party clientele by unfortunately following your predecessors' bankrupt policy. In conclusion, I should like to point out that a little west of us, the polypathic Portugal yesterday, was able to make one year's bonds available at negative interest rates, despite the fact that it is, of course, in an exceptional political instability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Mrs KANELLI from the Communist Party, and immediately thereafter Mrs Drasakis, Vice-President of the Government, follows. Minister, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u281	I'll talk after Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u282	To testify to any legislative improvement or to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u283	For a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u284	Do you want it now? Will it take a long time? Mrs. Canelle, can the Minister precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u285	I'm waiting, I'm fine. I don't want to do anything about it, because a word disappears and eighty meters come to the head of the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u286	After Mrs. Canelley, I'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u287	Good. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u288	When we want to prove something on a simple level, when there are two camps, on the one hand work and on the other hand capital, and you want to represent it, imagine it as a ring of boxing. Internationally, regardless of nationality and placement, the gloves are or blue or red. That's how you stand the players. Even if the shorts are different, you put blue or red gloves on. You come here with the concept of the Left as a governing NGO, with a sense of being offered here to the people philanthropic relief measures from the previous situation! You are, in fact, the philanthropists who finely correct the injuries from previous memorials and are lying. Pour unheard of the wound, for you come cumulatively with this memorial and take place in the ring. You bet systematically in favour of capital. Even in this article 12, the legal improvement you sent us now, where we are sitting, says that in the column - gambling, as you know, is based on individual and other pathogens, which are nature, is DNA, remember Nick the Greek, whatever you want to say - the player will be rewarded, not the big-timer who exploits his weakness to make money. The casino never loses. Make it here. You made it. These measures are a brand in the casino, so nobody gets any credit. I give you an example. You will have the option of 2 of 15, in the second category, to protect - it says - those who cannot, you have 100 million to pay the state. You're not telling me, will the house of a man who actually gets in this category, if he has a card mortgage loan? Oh, no. That's where he stays unprotected. He won't lose it for the 100,000 he owes, he'll lose it for the 25,000 he may owe the consumer card. But he's gonna lose it, because if the whole thing goes beyond what's going on, he's gonna have to take it back to him. You went to the inconveniences. When you auction the inconsistent criteria on what are they? With the criteria set out in Article 953 of the Code of Civil Procedure? You're not telling me, what time are we at? In 2015. Tell me what it is? Chair, table, bed, a sheet, a spoon, a fork, the car - old, cunt, to move -, the duck? The duck has it to go to work. What about the confiscated? The TV? What are you gonna do? The citizen will come out and sit, 'why are those who have the TVs, not watching TV? It's not a kind of first need, it's not an update. Isn't he going to lose the Prime Minister? You don't care. Is that where we're going? In fact, who are protected? Why are you talking about first residence? The 3⁄4 of the Greeks who have small businesses have promised their homes and homes of their children in reality, which are first residences on the substance, to do a job. They're not protected. You're talking at saving rates? Here are you talking at saving rates and accepting this as normal, philanthropist, forced charity, unbearable work for left-wing people? At least get the look down that you're saving the ones that the previous people drowned. Because you've chosen them, in a diagram, with criteria that don't imply that someone can trust you. I'm giving you an example. The other guy went and took a car that was hybrid, it was eight hundred - nine hundred cubic, so he wouldn't pay fees. You come now and you tell him he'll pay fees. What time are you telling him? At the time when the largest German car industry has been shown to have had false software on whether there is or not and how much pollution in the atmosphere. On what criteria? Greek, made in Greece, will you make criteria? With 90 to 100. On what criteria? The Americans who discovered it, the university that discovered it, of Volkswagen, with its damage, on what criteria? And someone's gonna get a car that's going to be 90 in 100 and you're going out tomorrow morning to bring him an amendment to the next package of prerequisites and say 60%. And finally only the ghosts will be able to move without contaminating the environment, because they are transparent and go everywhere. Is there a diffuse, almost professional - have you acquired it in ten months, colleagues of SYRIZA - the idea that distortion of reality is the only way to survive a government in this environment and stand proudly, to serve who? Who? The majority of the Greek people, the working class, when you say in any case that the creditor, the opposite, the money-launderer, the devalued bank for which the Greek people were borrowed with the previous recapitalisations of 40 billion and today again comes to deal with the same issue as the banks as a whole not to be valued at more than 1.5 billion? And he's loaded it on his back. Why should this Greek people trust you? Where are you telling him today that if the house does 50 and sells 60 and stays 10 out of the auction, the bank and five himself will take five? And if tomorrow morning the bank wakes up and says, since she has the ability to negotiate, that she will decide, after her expenses, she will not get anything. Do you know what you've done? Leave the slogans and "no house in the hands of a banker". Since the house is not a public folklore and property and it is a property paid for forty thousand times in capital and it is not even protected as a first or lasting residence, because since there is an invoice to the tombs because it will be in the house - and I will close and hold my time - I have heard the Minister say so. Do you know what you're doing? Lovingly - tenderly save the home for the banker and you may have the citizen negotiate his existence, his sleep, his awakening, where he sleeps, what a tile he will have over his head, with the clearer banker. He'll have the knife and the melon. What's better for him? How's it better for him? How will he negotiate? How much is he going to auction it? What's the money? And we call this democracy and salvation! 25%? The 0.25%! Once you move the zero, between but infinite and plus infinite, right takes value, left is reduced. That's what you're doing. You put a zero in front of the right-hand programs, and you brought them to 2.5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Minister, you have asked for the floor to table some legislative improvements. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u290	I would like to say - 11, I think - legislative improvements and some which clarify the problems that have been posed and during the debate. Well, the first is the title, no matter what, I'm going to stand by the four or five that are the main ones. Let's start from first and foremost. In Article 14 of the draft law, paragraph 2 of Article 9, the words ‘a liquidation proposal’ shall be added after the words ‘and a draft debt settlement plan’. It obviously strengthens self-evident, in a better way. Secondly, it is specified that the cooperating debtor in case (d) of paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the draft law. It is recast as follows: ‘(d) the debtor is a cooperating borrower, under the Bank Ethics Code, where applicable’. And I would remind you that it is now beginning to be implemented, so it has nothing to do with the past. It actually starts, zero time is now, about January.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u291	Where does the debtor say he's cooperating?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u292	Where applicable. There is no, retrospectively, however, such a thing as that, there was no prior code. In paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the draft law, paragraph 2 of Article 9 of Law No.3869/2010, the words ‘In this case the draft regulation should not infringe the collective satisfaction of creditors’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u293	You'll share them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u294	Yeah, they'll share. We will go to the next important paragraph. Delete all the part concerning the valuers and the expert expert. In this section, which is paragraph 1 of Article 14 amending paragraph 2 of Article 9 of Law 3869/2010, the ‘Estimation of the amount corresponding to the value of the property in the event of a forced execution shall be carried out by a qualified expert within 30 days........, etc.’ leaves this paragraph and shall be replaced by ‘In an act of the Bank of Greece, which shall be adopted until 31 December 2015, the guidelines taken into account in determining the maximum repayment capacity of the debtor’. This is recast as follows: ‘In a decision of the Bank of Greece which will be issued within 30 days of the publication of this Regulation, the procedure and criteria taken into account for determining the maximum repayment capacity of the debtor and for determining the amount that the creditors would receive in the event of enforcement and for determining the possible loss to the creditors’. The procedure is essentially carried out by a regulatory framework which should facilitate the entire procedure to be followed by the judge when setting this price and by the rules governing the evaluation of these possibilities. Now, in the next issue concerning criteria, the conditions for joining the law, point (a) is clearer. We therefore say that 'a) this property serves as its main residence'. In point (d) ‘is a co-operating borrower under the Code of Conduct Banking, where applicable’, which exists in the previous Article, and is added to the fact that ‘is in a real weakness of payment of monthly payments as defined in the draft debt settlement of the previous paragraph’. It is still added to this paragraph - I do not read it all - that 'the Greek State's contribution to the above debt settlement plan cannot exceed three years and is paid to creditors provided that the debtor remains consistent with the minimum contribution'. We are referring to the fact that he will pay a small, 5% to 10% of his income. The State will pay the balance as a whole, provided the debtor remains consistent with the minimum contribution. That is the additional amendment. In the amended paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the draft law, paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the Law. 3869/2010, in the third paragraph thereof, after the words ‘from the Greek State to the creditors’, i.e. where it covers it, the words ‘for 2016’ are added. In 2016, it is a transitional year where there is a specific year in the way that this payment will be made in relation to 2017 and 2018, and that is why it wants a clarification, that this, in 2016, is a separate year from 2017 and 2018 regarding how to determine. And the last legislative improvement, the eleventh, relates to transitional and transitional provisions. It has been formulated by too many speakers. We therefore say: ‘The application of this Article starts from 1-1-2016 and does not occupy outstanding assumptions as well as applications lodged up to 31-12-2015’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u295	I would ask that the legislative improvements be distributed to this House. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Ioannis Drasakis, has the floor. Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor for ten minutes and we see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard previous speakers make a number of comments on the government's policy and, in particular, SYRIZA. I would like to say that SYRIZA and today are with the people, along with the farmers. We are not against farmers. Many of the requests from farmers are reasonable and fair. And this government would very much like to be able to satisfy them. But history is recent and well-known. And we can't make politics take off from reality. We did not abandon our objectives. We had to re-enter them out of need. The people understood that for this reason and voted again for our own powers to be government here. So we will not stop looking forward to creating the conditions that will enable these objectives and those demands of farmers and the people to be met. We are calling on all the left-wing and progressive forces, even those who appear not to understand what the dominant conflict in society is today, and they are coming to slander the SYRIZA world, to think about what is being judged in society today, who is against whom, to see that a conflict has begun between the incumbent forces and the forces that want to change society and take the place they need to take. We will never stop calling for shared goals. We understand that there are issues on which there are differences and contradictions. We are not asking them to share our responsibility. However, I do not think that, in their attitude, they should allow anti-grassroots forces to pass their plan. The reason why I particularly wanted to speak is to underline that the process of bank recapitalisation, the process of loan resolution and the process of reducing unemployment and increasing employment are three interdependent and interdependent procedures. If that is understood, I think that many of the questions that have also been asked by Mrs Canelles before, 'Why so much money for the banks?', 'why is the value of the banks now zeroed?' etc. Only if the recapitalisation or only when the recapitalisation, as this government wants to do, is combined with the treatment of red loans and a policy of employment recovery, will recapitalisation only then be considered a success. Why is that? Because, when we talk about red loans, it means that banks are committed to funds, banks are being given funds and as long as red loans are accumulated instead of being resolved, new funds are constantly needed to recapitalise the banks. That is exactly what has happened so far and that is what we are trying to prevent in the future. That is why it is not just about borrowers but about the whole society, all of us. In other words, the key to developments is recapitalisation combined with the treatment of red loans and a policy of recovery of the economy and employment. So why do we need the new recapitalisation that we are discussing today? Firstly, because red loans have not been treated in the previous recapitalisations and secondly because almost nothing has changed in the functioning of the banks. That is not only our view, but - let me say - and the prevailing scientific view of those involved in the matter. I would like to present to the Minutes of the House a study of the many of Professor Auguleas, which was carried out on behalf of ELIAMEP, which is just trying to see all this problem of the banks and how we got this far. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the same reason the stock values have been zeroed many times, not just now. And we see here that huge amounts have been lost and those who had invested in the banks with the prior recapitalisation. The interest here and the positive one is, however, that many of the old foreign investors are reinvesting in the banks today. Why are they doing this after they lost their money? The reason for this is because they now consider that the current government is determined to proceed after the recapitalisation of what I have already said to address the problem of red loans. And in the question why the people should trust this government that they will not lose their money again - because they are right, not only EUR 40 billion said by Mrs Canellis, more has been spent and lost - the answer is hope. And it is also the aim of this conquest, this time, to make decisive progress in dealing with red loans and what is needed for the recovery of the economy and employment. What's happened so far? And why is it today something qualitatively different, which I believe, from opposition intent, that some do not want to understand? What has happened so far, of course, has allowed a world not to lose its home and that is good. However, what has been protected so far was mainly inappropriateness. What has been protected so far was a function of the banking system, which had no incentive or pressure to deal with the issue of red loans. He was recycled, accumulated. The second one that has been protected up to now was a function of banks that allowed customer networks, customer relations, gift loans. The loans to the parties are an indicative issue, and I do not know why they should not be discussed. Loans to certain known companies are also another example. You know that in some cases - unfortunately, I will say - there has also to be a judicial investigation. So what has happened so far has been a process of real trouble getting jammed, becoming a time bomb - I mean red loans to the whole of them - which if we do not deal with it now and let this bomb shut down and first home protection, we will not have any job protection, nor will we have an economy, but we will have a generalised crisis. And in order not to waste time, I will submit to the Minutes two tables with data that we prepared with the help of primary data from the Bank of Greece, confirming what I said, namely that since 2012, 2013, despite the recapitalisation made, red loans, non-performing loans, continued to increase quantitatively and as a percentage of total loans, and indeed at a strong pace. [[At this point, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Ioannis Drasakis, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second thing you'll see in the charts you get is that we have a non-reduction but slowing down the growth of loans - when? - when the growth of unemployment begins to slow down, when the recession begins to slow down and we have a trend towards recovery. In other words, what I said at the outset confirms that when we have an increase in unemployment, recession, red loans are increasing. When we have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Colleague, what date are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u298	It's for the whole series, it's from 2007 to 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u299	No, what you're talking about about recovery.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u300	It shall start from mid-2013 to 2014. We do not deny that there has been such a tendency and that you will see in the table. What does it look like, though? That the specific problem of red loans has not been addressed, but has been accumulated and we have reached the present level.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u301	Can I have a photocopy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u302	You'll get later. What is the current government doing now? Firstly, we are aiming to resolve this huge problem of accumulated red loans, and secondly, we are doing this in terms of social justice, in terms of employment and in terms of productive restructuring of the economy. The arrangements you have discussed sufficiently regarding the first residence are one part of this strategy. The second part is what we are going to discuss in business loans, where we must finally end the'seaweeds'. However, it must end also in a entrepreneurship that is common in our country, where some want to have their profits abroad and their loans internally, and that is all protected from the political system we have had up to now. In this respect, then, we want to put an end to the regime. It's hard. It's not easy to mess with established interests for decades and decades. That is what I meant at the beginning of my speech, when I was addressing both the Communist Party of Greece and other forces that define themselves as progressive, democratic and left-wing forces. I invite them to see the conflict that exists on purpose, beyond which weaknesses may have some sort of governmental control. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with your tolerance, if I may, to make an addition. A while ago, the Step here, I talked about the need, in addition to the resolution of the four banks, to consider the architecture of the financial system as a whole. I made the mistake of talking about a parallel banking system. I was surprised at the comments made by some Members. I didn't know there was so much ignorance in this room. The parallel system is a reality in Europe. Firstly, directives have been introduced which allow for institutions that are no longer called banks but do credit operations, issue electronic money, clear transactions. This is a dynamic that we are interested in getting in. Secondly, in all countries, apart from the banks that have been systematically designated and strictly controlled by the ECB, there are hundreds of thousands of banks belonging to a different regime. That's what I talked about. Thirdly, however, and more importantly, which is perhaps what has been disturbed, when we talk about a parallel banking system, we are also talking about alternative criteria for the operation of this system. It is not speculative function the only one that can exist in the world. We have development needs. We need financing for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have regional development needs. From the global liquidity there is, we have new opportunities to make use of them. These therefore require not only that we strengthen and make healthy and sustainable the four systemic banks but also that we find ways to develop new institutions and new financial instruments, which, on the one hand, will take advantage of these new possibilities that I have mentioned and, on the other, will respond to the needs that I have mentioned. And it was right that Mr Constantinople, I think, from PASOK, who said that the issue is not whether or not there is the parallel system, but how to create it. Even in this, however, there are interests that do not want to take any step in this direction. So we will still need a wider co-responsibility in order to pave the way for us to create precisely these new possibilities that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr. Drasakis. Mrs. Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u305	What about, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u306	Mr President, I have asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u307	Other parliamentary representatives have also asked for the floor. Mr Loverdo, listen - and this should be heard by the whole House - it is time to end. Parliamentary representatives who have not spoken have been asked to speak. Chairmans of Parliamentary Groups are next, Members who want to speak - and rightly so - ministers who want to speak. That is why I would ask you very much to give the floor to two speakers, and from there on, Mr Pafilis and then four Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u308	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u309	This thing can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u310	What exactly do you want? I'll give you a minute to say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u311	And we have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u312	We don't have a responsibility. When he takes the floor and raises new issues in his knowledge of what the President of Parliament said about 20.00 at 21.00 at night, do not tell me that it is my fault that the time of the other Members will be reduced. Open the question of the parallel banking system. We accept his self-criticism. I'm one of those who didn't believe in my ears and I asked for the Minutes before I was critical. I saw exactly the wording that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Loverdo, if we go into a new course, you'll take a lot more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u314	Did I? Why are you addressing me? He's got a situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Loverdos, have you made your speech as a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u316	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u317	...you took time from your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u318	I threw it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u319	You've already spent time in your speech, and now we're already in one minute. I would ask you very much to give the floor to Mrs. Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u320	The Bureau of Parliament shall be single. It's not my fault if you weren't here at the time. I said I don't want my dentistry. But he spoke, Minister. I'm putting in new issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u321	Listen, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u322	What can I hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u323	I was in the Chamber, but you don't want to look that way. You have also taken advantage of the time of your dentistry and the duty of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u324	I don't contract. However, I told you he opened a new circle. Answer me something. The President of Parliament is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u325	Let's stop here. Mr. Loverdo, please, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u326	Stop now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u327	But it's still going on. What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u328	Mrs. Jufi, start. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u329	No, Mr. President, excuse me. From now on, when the Minister takes the floor, will there not be a representative? That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u330	If you translate it that way, it's your problem, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u331	Ten Ministers will come, and a representative will not be present. Nice democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u332	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u333	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine it is very difficult for me to put myself after the very substantial suggestion made by Mr Drasakis and, of course, in an environment where he debates very important articles of the first home bill, but where he is selected from a number of extreme demagogic environment to hold this debate. I have chosen the short time given to me, to speak exclusively on the issue of the medicine, namely the introduction of the automatic refund system for all medicinal products and vaccines purchased by public health bodies, as provided for in Article 16 of this draft law. My position is likely to look paradoxical or even indifferent. But I'll try it. It is known that as early as 2013, this system had been applied to the non-survivorial medical expenditure, but not to hospitals. There, along with the medicines administered by the EEAS, is a constant growth trend and despite the successive reductions in the market limits for medicinal products in the budgets of the hospitals, the costs could not be retained, while there were very great difficulties in supplying expensive medicinal products, resulting in the suffering of patients who had to take these medicines from the EEAS and bring them to the hospital. Consequently, there was a need for a single mechanism for all public expenditure on medicinal products, rules introduced by Article 16 concerning public hospitals, EEAS and other health bodies. As we all know, this automatic refund mechanism has been negotiated between the negotiating team and the lenders, as it required this refund to be set at EUR 500 million, and it also required the immediate and once-a-day abolition of the protection of off-patents and generics, in other words, without a gradual impairment that would lead to the destruction of the domestic pharmaceutical industry. Finally, it was agreed to gradually weaken this protective mechanism within the two-year period, and this will be regulated by a direct ministerial decision, while for the amount of expenditure, over which this claw back, as called by pharmaceutical companies, will be higher, i.e. around EUR 570 million for 2016 to 530 million for 2018. All this is done in an attempt to contain and rationalise expenditure. We believe that this agreement, despite the serious difficulties that arise, is capable of ensuring the functioning of the drug market and of public health as a whole, but above all it ensures that the burden does not fall on already affected patients. It also ensures cost-sharing from the reduction of costs between the domestic and multinational pharmaceutical industry, as well as the savings of public pharmaceutical costs, which, if any, is considered to be linked to the reduction in the costs of patient participation in their medicines, as this has tripled. However, this agreement only makes sense if, in parallel to the proposed arrangements, a set of structural measures are implemented and respected, such as an increase in the use of generics by means of targeted and serious scientific campaigns, since reliable data and accumulated clinical experience are available, providing incentives to doctors, patients, for example with a reduced rate of involvement and to pharmacists. All of this will be done by setting up a National Trading Committee on High Cost Medicinal Products, which is already scheduled to start directly in the EEA, introducing therapeutic protocols and guidelines for electronic prescriptions and hospital medicinal products, which is feasible, critical and necessary and ensures that doctors from uncertainties, report to judicial adventures and patients from overconsumption of medicines and side effects, by reorganising the system of supply of medicinal products in hospitals and central management of accurate hospital medicinal products. Of course, for all this to happen, there must be participation and synergy between all the parties involved. I am referring to the new administrations of hospitals that must make a dynamic contribution to this process and to the Greek pharmaceutical industry, from which we would like to see no phenomena of non-drug supply beyond the cap covered by the state budget at each hospital. And I think from the representative's position here that there will be that possibility. I am referring even to doctors and pharmacists, as information campaigners, to the effectiveness and reliability of the quality generics circulating in our country. I am also referring to patients' associations, which should be open dialogue and a climate of confidence for their needs and requirements. In conclusion, I would like to focus on a very serious issue, which concerns a large proportion of our fellow citizens, the provision of medical cover to the unsafe. I know that it is the aim of the Ministry of Health's political leadership to access unsafes to public health structures, including pharmaceutical coverage. So I would like to stress that we absolutely must ensure in practice that the unsafe and, of course, for this to happen, we need an increased purchase budget in next year's budget, since the government's priority is to strengthen public care. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] One more minute. Ladies and gentlemen, the resources are limited and our country is making a great effort to ensure the financial stability it needs to support the social state. Already, there is an emergency plan to continue in 2016 with an increase in the resources for hospitals, further staffing support and a serious effort in the field of primary health care, in order to reverse the current difficult image of public care for patients and also for workers who heroically raise it on their back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendances from the 21st Grade Patras. Welcome. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Kerameo has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u335	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that we are again unnecessarily faced with a fast track process of legislation, within suffocating time margins, which ultimately remove the possibility for the Member to carry out his duties properly. And I say 'unreasonable', ladies and gentlemen, because we all know that the prerequisites that we are discussing today have been known since August, not to say in July. Therefore, all that was needed was a plan and a programme and it seems that you do not have that. My brief intervention will focus on four points demonstrating the government's inconsistency and deeds, as reflected in this piece of legislation. With Article 3, ladies and gentlemen, you are reducing the term of the independent General Secretariat of Public Revenue from five to two years. Once again, inconsistent when you yourself are bringing the fight against tax evasion to a central pillar of your policy, when you yourself have first reduced the powers of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue. Today you too are limiting the mandate of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue without any justification. Of course, the Prime Minister himself had presided over his previous term of office to the Ministerial Council that he would turn against the autonomous entities created in the public in the years of the memorandum. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen: why? What is the reason why you are reducing the term of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue from five to two years? After all, let us not forget that one of the actions which you yourself agreed to with the signature of the third memorandum is the demilitarisation of the administration. I would refer you to page 1.032 of the memorandum and also to the statement of the July euro summit on page 4, which you yourself have agreed to as a basic prerequisite for modernising and strengthening the independence of the Greek public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, is that how you vision independent, away from narrow management criteria? With reduced terms and arbitrary interventions by the political leadership? Secondly, with Article 4, ladies and gentlemen, you are amending for the third time the regime you yourself introduced to regulate the hundreds of doses. Now, then, after a holiday, since the citizens have already chosen to be subject to the arrangement, having weighed on the pros and the anti-regulations, you tell them, "We're sorry, we're changing the terms" and now the debtor may lose the regulation much easier than what you said to him at the outset. You are here as inconsistent, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and this time in relation to your own government acts. You change your own arrangement, excluding public debtors who well believed you and householders pay their instalments. Thirdly, with Articles 13 and 14, you propose to impose two new taxes in return for the withdrawal of VAT of 23% in private education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u336	The numbering of articles has changed, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u337	Okay, I think we all know what the two taxes are. I don't think there's any doubt. Fortunately, the abolition of VAT on education has been introduced with an amendment. And we have certainly been pleased to hear that this measure has been withdrawn. But it is not a solution to accumulate taxes, which in no way harm the interests of the oligarchy, as you typically play. I'm explaining. The special fee of 5 cents of the euro per column of each game of «OPA S.A.» is borne exclusively by the player, not the OPAP, with obvious consequences for the owners of the agencies and many incentives to bloom illegal gambling. The introduction of excise duty on wine affects Greek bottled wine production, a production which, thanks to the good quality-price relationship, is competitive and is a significant export activity. Taxation for 40 minutes per litre of final product exceeds all logic. Why am I saying that? It goes beyond all logic, not only because the production costs of this litre are 35 minutes but also because it doubles the sales prices of the wine. Why am I saying that? Because we all know that the starting price of Greek bottled wine starts at 40 minutes. So, what are you doing? You are double the sale price on the domestic market and in short, you are putting Greek wines out of competition. Therefore, it favours the movement of illegal, bulk wine and obviously reduces competitiveness and thus export capacity. But your inconsistency is impressive. A week ago you withdrawn a similar provision that affected the Greek breweries. Today you come and hurt the Greek winery. Would you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, think once again about taxing imported foreign products or even better to think about cutting public spending, instead of overcoming the already fragmented private Greek economy? Finally, with Article 15, from the pre-election flag of 'confidence' and the deletion of debts, we have now managed to protect only 25% of borrowers and in fact the first residence remains unprotected. You completely abolish the extrajudicial protection of first home. There is no provision for after 2018 for business loans. At some point we hear you're going to activate the law Trees, the n. 4307. However, it seems from all the legislative initiatives you have taken so far, support for entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized, does not seem to be in your priorities. We, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are standing here today, once again, having a constructive opposition - you saw it yesterday during the debate on the bill in committee - and we tell you to build on the legal arsenal we have delivered to you. Not only the voted n. 4307/2014 for business loans and all the pre-treatment that had been done to regulate non-performing housing loans was at your disposal, at the disposal of your Government. But you choose to go to the dark, so dark that you yourself have disproved not only your election promises but also your own government actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u338	The parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u339	Now I'm tempted after the previous speech. That's exactly what they do. They build on what you built. Just the same way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u340	Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u341	Are we going to make a case of intent now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u342	Where you stopped - and where you were in this position would you do the same - go on now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u343	I wish they did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u344	That's exactly what they do. And don't yell too much. That's exactly what they do. It was revealing and Mr Drasakis' speech, which was sincere as a speech. I appreciate him, no matter what we disagree radically. That's exactly what they do. They keep up and build up where you stopped and I'll say why. First of all, I would like to say something about the debate with Mr Loverdos and everything that is going on. There are no people here who can talk whenever they want to, and some who can speak once. You are right politically, but there is a procedure here. Each parliamentary representative has 12 minutes and six minutes, eighteen minutes in total, to speak. You've exhausted everything and said you wouldn't talk again. There is a new issue coming up. You may have retained your right to denial. We cannot play in general here either - and it is not just about you - have the privilege of speaking whenever others want to be more disciplined about the Rules of Procedure. So that my time is not to be consumed, as far as urgent is concerned. Did you see how life does sometimes? Here every day for five years SYRIZA has been shouting "coup d'état", etc. SYRIZA used to say that. But here, you have now exceeded every limit. You've literally broken all the records with the emergency! Such adjustment speeds, such learning speeds over previous ones, are inconceivable. We didn't expect her, either. We said you'd keep some pretext. You don't hold anything anymore. You simply come and say, "We are negotiating to the end, and that's why we're coming with the urgent." You're literally making fun of the world! So let us refer to the bill. What's he doing? We say that it has two main lines integrated into a more general strategy. The road opens - avenue - for the auctioning of popular homes. The business loans that have even more bread will also be followed. Secondly, there will be a tax raid. Yes or no? You're putting new taxes on the world, on the workers. Isn't that right, Mr. Stathakis? You're on. The reason why it's a different account. What did Mr. Chakalotos say? We did, he says, very tough negotiation - at least dough, we say so hard! - and we won and we lost. That's a fake question. What does "we won and lost" mean? Who? The lenders and we are? In Greece, are the lenders across the country? Aren't there classes? Aren't there rich and poor to say in simple words, so people can understand it? So fake, it's the question. So let's see who won and who lost. And here we will all apologise to the Greek people. And cut conscious deception. Tell the truth at least, which you're not going to do. Are auctions being released for the people's residence, yes or no? They're liberating. Are payment terms tighter for the overdue households, yes or no? So we ask this: who wins from this, from the people's households or banks, i.e. capital, to say it in general? Are banks being held hostages by the highly indebted people's households, by the ones they owe, by the arrangements you make, yes or no? Aren't they? Don't rush, because we'll see what you're going to say. Do you, at the same time, ensure a sum of EUR 100 million - and I will say where - so that banks do not harm, yes or no? You're making sure. In other words, everything that exists as relief - if there is - will be paid by the Greek people. I'll analyze it below. Who, then, serves this arrangement? Does it serve the people's households as a whole or the banking groups? Does it create better conditions for banks to get rid of the rocks of red loans, yes or no? Are there any conditions, once they're relieved, to get into new profitability, yes or no? If you say no, I tell you what Mr Drasakis said. We have, he says, based on our own arrangements that you have not made - and blames the New Democracy - for reinvesting the old investors who have lost and now come again. Why are they coming again? They smell roasted. That's why they're coming. Are they messy? Do you have them, those economic monsters that don't account for anything about naive people? That's why they're coming. And that was the news. Secondly - it says - we ensure the re-launching. What reboot? Who? Capitalist economy. How will it be relaunched? To lose capitalists to offer the community as a whole or to have greater profits. And the banking system inside capitalism is how it works. We don't question it. In fact, we are now saying that state money is being recapitalised! The state money who will pay for it, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL? Who's gonna pay for the recapitalisation? Aren't the Greek people going to pay for it? Are the shipowners going to pay for it, the industrialists? Again, the Greek people. The following question also arises: Mr Drasakis told us, by addressing the JRC, that there is a conflict that we need to see. We agree there is a conflict. What's the conflict, though? Amongst what's the conflict? We say capital and work, monopolies and people who want to ensure conditions of slavery, modern slavery to be able to reinvest. A key - fundamental! - A tool in capitalism is the banks themselves. Secondly, let's see who wins and who loses: do we have new taxes, yes or no? We do. What do we got? We've got 13 million in the traffic charges. Who's gonna pay for it? The rich? Ears if the rich 50 euros pay. It's a cigar. I don't know now it's not half a cigar. I do not know that'sport'. The vast majority of workers and the people who have cars will pay for them. Second, wine tax: So far there! In fact, you know, sometimes - I want to say it, although I do not like it - it causes not just irritation, something worse when it is said, 'Come on, 40 minutes is!' Forty minutes here, 30 there, 50 elsewhere do you know how much it is for the people's family? You know about a shipowner, about a industry that drinks wine of 50 euros and 70 euros and 100 euros or 200 euros or drinks champagne Dom Perion and the others they say, what is it? Oh, I mean, if he pays 40 and 50. But for the people's family, if you add both to the wine and to the end and to HIS and everything else, a dead end is coming. So stop this irony. And I am specifically addressing Ministers, in particular Mr Tsakalotos, who in a dismantling way says: 'And what is 30 minutes'? Of course, for him it may be nothing, as for some who have. But if you put thirty, thirty, thirty in the world, there's too much going on. In fact, this is where you do a trick, and we have to say it. How much is it that you miss them? It's 400 million. How much do you think you're going to collect with the wine tax? You're saying you're gonna raise $560 million. Isn't that right or I'm wrong? I might be wrong. Put it down and say 500 million. Well, 400 million will be collected on the basis of the prerequisites and 100 million will be left. What are the 100 million? What you're going to give - you're supposed to - to cover the tile of the poor. I mean, as Karathanasopoulos said very well, you're doing a memorial of foreign collision. In other words, you call on the Greek people through the taxation of wine and others to pay your social policy. And you have the courage to say that it is with social justice. That's how I do it! If I raise all the money and give you five euros, I'll be very good, too, when I've taken you 100 and 200. That's exactly what you're doing and making fun of the Greek people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr. Alexiadis is gone. I would like him to tell us - we have asked a question - how shipowners will ultimately contribute, for example. We have an element in which we want confirmation. Why doesn't he answer any government so far? To say that they paid 120 million, 130 million, 140 million crew tax in 2013 and that the shipowners paid 70 million, 75 million. Is that true? Mr. Alexiadis is here. Mr Alexiadis, I repeat. Will you tell us how much the shipowners, the world's first merchant fleet, and how much they pay the crew? Will you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u345	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u346	Will you tell us what you're doing now? You are flipping the cosmakis, taxing even the wine that is a product we all know here, except those who underestimate it anyway. Will you tell us sometime here in your bills what all of them contribute to this scratch of the Greek people? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why do I have ten minutes? Twelve minutes, don't I? So I would like you to tell us with arguments rather than 'fumura' - and apologise for the expression - if you better protect the weak than the weak. And before that, it was a mess. We're not talking about it. That's why we didn't vote for the Katseli law. Now with the new law, are you creating better or worse requirements? Let's see if it's classic or not politics. So let's see what accession conditions you've got. First you put the main residence - we protect it, you say - the tile of the poor. Yes, but if he also has a house in the village from his father, who's ready to fall or no field, with this setting you get it. Yes or no? You're getting it! You're not protecting them! He's considered rich, great, very rich! Second, you put on family income. This is where he wants a lot of conversation. Thirdly, you put the objective value. In fact, Mr Tsakalotos said that this is where we have an insurance policy, the 'haircut'. But who do you work for? The haircut is objective. Let's assume a bank gets home to one who did 100,000 euros and goes to sell it. Now this house does 50,000 euros. Can he sell it more? Oh, no! So now you're making it easier for them. This is not that you are 'tiring' but that you are simply recognising a reality that exists on the market. And you can't help it. And that's what's of interest to the banks, because you're also putting insurance licenses on a challenging spot. You say that if anyone happens and sells it in the intervening period - for example, if he sells 70,000 instead of 50,000 euros - he will give 10,000 euros to the bank and 10,000 euros will last. That's it. So who are you serving here? And, of course, you also raise the question of cooperatives. Who's gonna decide if someone's cooperating? What does "cooperative" mean? This will be decided on the basis of the Code of Conduct. I imagine the banks built the Code of Conduct to help the world and not to win! I think that is what you are saying, 'Communists say too much'! But that's why they've set the code! In fact, I would like to say another thing about the haircut. As you do, they'll end up paying for it four times, because it's 20 years old. With interest and anatomy, they will come to pay for it four of three who are now paying for it. And as far as the haircut you say is concerned, it is a fraud. It is not "cut" but "shaving" and even "shaving" - literally I mean it - for those who take their homes. Then you have the matter of the court. And that's right. One who can't pay will have to go to court four times. Four! Not one or two! Think of how much he'll pay, given that justice is accurate. That's how you've done it! Yes, he will also be a prisoner. And he will be captive because of the position he says that the court's decision must be such that the creditors do not lose. Why don't you just keep the lenders from losing and winning? Who are you serving? Is there a more cannabis arrangement in favour of the banks? And the Bank of Greece. You have, in other words, put too many insurance in favour of the banks and nothing in favour of the people's strata. And you also took off this "substantially". Our rapporteur, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has said so twice, three times. Why don't you put that on? You didn't give us any explanations. Why are you taking it off? There was an accident, or something tragic happened to the family or something else temporary and he couldn't pay. We're taking his head off. Why? Give me an explanation. We say that you are doing this to ensure - because you do not protect borrowers, not people's mattresses or the people's residence - and to protect banks. And this, "We share fairly with the taxpayers, the borrowers and the banks", as Mr Tsakalotos said, reminds me "mys, mine and yours, mys" in favour of the banks. On the occasion of this debate - and I shall end, Mr President - what goes objectively on the agenda - and not because the JRC puts it - is what residence is. Is it socially good, is it right or is it - and in 2015 - commodity? Here are fundamentally two different worldviews and political perceptions. Once the residence, as I will say again - even the human organs - are the extreme form - it is a commodity, that is how it works. As a merchandise. We say that society today has the potential to provide one and two residences - not to say three, it is the development of quality, modern - so that people can live better. In order to do this, the wealth produced must be socially owned. And to say, socialism, with all the weaknesses and problems, had solved this problem in those times. And don't judge him with today's data. Even the people who live today in those countries where there is wild capitalism, what they still have, to the very least, is the conquests on the part of socialism. In capitalism, what did you do to them? Or you're making him work all his life, not going out, making bloody savings to build a house or sending him to the banks where he pays it three times, and then you come back and put him in rent and everything else. And here to stop the hypocrisy and cries of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the others, who suddenly discovered what happened with the residence. Didn't you rent a rent, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Dendias, and everyone else at home? He paid it three times and you come and you put it in HISHA, or rent plus other taxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u347	Oh, that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u348	Yeah or not that? He paid for it, and he got rid of it. I am talking about the popular strata, about the majority of the Greek people. So don't go out on the tiles now. And then, when they got the loans, because you blame them already, they took them with the data they had. He took the other 1,500 euros, 2,000 euros and he says to you, "I can pay a loan with my wife with 300 euros a month." They're changing, they're overthrown, you get them all back and the pensions and you're coming now and you're finally telling them, "It's your fault." And, of course, we also have the Golden Dawn fascists who have found the scenario that all this is being done to put illegal immigrants. That's what they said. That's actually what they say. They see neither capital nor profitability nor banks nor what is going to become a whole for the capitalist economy. Illegal immigrants are the problem. I'm ending up in a few words. We want to warn you about the people's residence - the residence of workers, etc. - if you enter the auction process - with two words: Molluscs take. Take the hammer that the JRC will do everything through all the mass organizations that it works, try to mobilize everyone, so that this will be the case, that is, the'moon received'. And he won't have it! You won't get them. Secondly, because the debate on insurance opens, it seems very quickly, don't dare put your hands on the remaining, on the last rights. That's a cause of war, and there's gonna be hell! We're telling you right away. We are not going, as far as we can as a JRC, to allow the people to surrender and lead to literally extreme misfortune. You can count this, Mr Ministers - I address the government - very well, because the JRC when it says something, maintains it and does not make statements of the type of television to impress it. So we are telling you again that insurance is a cause of war and that you will pay it very expensively. And we'll have the people on our side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u351	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u352	I'll let you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u353	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u354	After you asked me to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u355	I have the honour to announce to the House that we are honoured by the President-in-Office of the Council for Humanitarian Affairs and Aberrations of the Republic of Cyprus, Mr Fotis Fotiou, as well as by the Consulate, Mrs Natasa Stylianos, who are invited by the Special Permanent Committee of Hellenism, where they will speak with their speech. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Does Mr. Dendias have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u356	Mr President, we have been distributed legislative improvements and I should like to ask for some clarification from Mr Stathakis to be able to formulate an opinion, because they are not all clear. Do I have your permission?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u357	Are these clarifications related to the legislation submitted by Mr Stathakis earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u358	That is precisely because the text has not been codified. It was only distributed as additions - removals. According to this text - although I personally am pleased, because at least the government realised that two things...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u359	Look, so we don't waste time, do you get one or two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u360	I need a minute, Mr President. I'm not going to make a speech, I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u361	Okay, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u362	Thank you. Mr. Stathakis, if you want to bring it in front of you, because I imagine it won't be easy for you too. Case 1 is all right, Case 2 is all right, not in the sense that we agree, in that it restores reasonable adequacy of the text, because it did not exist before. In case 3, you say'recast', you say 'on the basis of the Code of Conduct of Banks, where it applies'. Does the phrase end there in the text? Because this is where the text continues, and if we continue it, it changes the meaning with the phrase 'at the time of the initial delay in the loan'. I would suggest that it should be stated, if I interpret what you want, that this is deleted. Also, let me tell you something by re-interpreting your opinion about 5. As you have said, in combination with 2 it is indeed an improvement, and to some extent it is the contradiction I said yesterday to Mr Tsakaloto and it has been a little difficult to come to an agreement. However, I am telling you that you will also make it difficult for the debtor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm not talking to you politically now, I'm only speaking technically. As it is, they are difficult for the debtor, because the court will interpret the product of possible liquidation as a parameter for the whole plan. The way it's done, he can't get it out on the hammer, but he'll put the criterion on him extremely high. I say it by acting as your informal legal counsel, I say it again, and not politically. You're looking at it. Also, with regard to the Bank of Greece in paragraph 7, I would say the following: in the second paragraph with regard to the Bank of Greece's decision, which should define the procedure and criteria taken into account to limit the maximum repayment capacity, to be binding on creditors who are not credit institutions, I would suggest either ministerial decision or presidential decree. Because the act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece does not necessarily bind the private creditor and the provision will be missed, even though you are trying to do so. I also reserve two corrections, which I could not find, to be placed. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u363	We'll look into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Minister, we should give the floor to one or two Members, and at some point, since Mr Denkias has some other questions and some of the other rapporteurs' parties, and perhaps at the end of the day you should also speak. Mr. Amyras has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we should all today turn to the government and admit that you have done so. The ministers of government have succeeded. They brought Marxism to every Greek family. Yes, Mr. Statakis, you brought the Marxism. You expropriate Greek property...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're ridiculous to say that's Marxism. This is due to banks and bankers and it's capitalism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u367	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u369	Remove the influxes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u370	That's what you do every time and it's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Karathanasopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u372	You're ridiculous to think that's communism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u373	You're a bully. And you're a hybrid and a bully. Okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u374	I'm good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Amyras, continue your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u376	You all right? Because you're a bully, are you okay? Trump, uh, trumpet! That's a lousy trumpet!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u378	Well, I repeat. But call him back, Mr. President. He can't get in there and start...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Karthanasopou, please calm down. Mr. Amyra, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u380	As you have seen, we have touched upon the communists' sanctuaries and loyals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u381	Are these sacred and loyal? It's capitalism and bankers. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Amyra, don't throw oil now... Continue your speech. Please don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u383	Rescind. Get the influx back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u384	Please, let's calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u385	You get it back and not slander communism. You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u386	Take back the insults, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u387	You're ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u388	You're ridiculous! You're a coward! That's what you are! Or, in other words, you are a Greek communist. That's what he's saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u389	Come on, you're gonna tell me about the Greek communists!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u390	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, I come back and give my credit...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u392	Come on, butterbee! You're half a slap.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u393	...to the JRC’s discontent with the Greek ministers of the left government, because, yes, they expropriate the property through the banks. The state gives banks money, banks take the homes of the world and homes belong to the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u394	And that's Marxism?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u395	Well, if you had been patient, you would hear that the houses belong to the state, but not to the Orthodox communist theory, but to the theory....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u396	Well now, you don't save it, go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u397	Come here, read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u398	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u399	Come here and read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u400	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u401	What will happen, Mr President, will it? Is that how it's going?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u402	I'm not addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u403	No, but I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u404	I am addressing the rest of the Members. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u405	So I was saying we have the Orthodox communists and we have the unorthodox, the hybrid communists, who have partners in bankers and their tool for auctioning. I'll give it to you to see the text, dear colleague, and apologise for your insults.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u406	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u407	Let's go down. I was going to tell you that we miss the previous House. Where is the Syrian MPs who were mixing the red flag of the revolution against the bankers? Where are you, SYRIZA colleagues? Is it possible on such a serious subject that only nine of you, one hundred and forty-five? So I read you, about the bankers to whom you are giving bankers the opportunity to expropriate, confiscate, auction the first home. Big sharks tell them, crows, vampires, and leeches that drink people's blood. What happened now? Did they become your partners? But there is, of course, beyond silence and the other way, this road that Gabriel Sakellaridis followed. He resigned because he did not want to sign this unacceptable bill. But we are now accustomed to legislating in both handfulness and contentlessness. So you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u408	Mercy, judge everyone, cut something off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u409	The ex-communist! The ex-communist who reformed the IKA, Mr. Theonas!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u410	Mr. President,... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u411	Don't interrupt, Mr. Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u412	For six months he was saving the IKA and he's coming to tell us now! Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Amyras, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u414	........................................ (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u415	Don't interrupt, Mr. Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u416	What will happen, Mr President, will I speak? To take the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u417	Take the time from the next speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u418	We're glad you handed over the IKA bouquet. You took it bankrupt, delivered it as a bloomer. That's all for you. Let's go down. So we learned that the equivalents or equivalents mean slaughter, meaning ignorance, mean amateurism. We have seen this in the case of wine. It is such sloppy, Prime Minister, who runs you, that you forgot to put the provision in the bill that comes to remove VAT in 23% on education and you came with an amendment of two and a half hours before we went to the vote and you remembered it. Where's the smuggling of fuel? Where's the hit on the interlocutor, where's the arrest of the big tax collectors, where's the Lagard list, where's the tough negotiation on these fronts? Air words. You tax what breathes, what moves and what runs in this country. Whatever goes ahead. Only bikes have you not taxed, and I hope I do not give you any ideas now, Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u419	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u420	That's a good idea. In Amendment 53, which you brought to us about the changes to the traffic charge, I did not see any provision in the explanatory statement, even with a note of your own on what to do with 'VOLKSWAGEN'. Matias Miller, the Director General of VolksWAGEN, sent a letter to the twenty-eight Finance Ministers of the European Union. I'm asking. Have you answered him? In addition to the answer - why is this the secondary - what should the Greek State receive from the traffic charges of the car tempted “VOLKSWAGEN” car software? Are you going to claim that money? In what way? It is the easy solution to put traffic charges on hybrids, despite the fact that, when their owners bought them, they knew that the law said they should not be paid, they should be exempted. So it's easy for the anonymous Greek driver and car owner to fly another checkout, but it's more difficult than it seems to be for you to do with "VOLKSWAGEN". [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Otherwise, your wine hurt! Only wine is not an alcoholic drink is an agricultural product! Can you hear me, Minister? Excuse me, because I see that with Mr. Theonas there you've had a conversation. What's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u421	We're talking about bikes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u422	You're talking about bikes? Did Mr. Theonas tell you to tax bicycles? Hey, no, put with me, Mr. Theonas, not on bicycles!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u423	Eventually, you won't leave a man untouched in here, Mr. Amyras! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u424	Well, two hundred and twenty thousand Greeks are employed from the field to the final product of the wine, instead of you helping and strengthening this primary production, to strengthen their efforts to gain access to cheap raw materials, to build bottles, labels and, of course, the stopper, you out of the small exporting plants in slow death. I don't know if you've been to Sicily, Minister. It is a small island in Cyclades - Mr. Loverdos has gone - between Folegandros and Santorini. Is that where you're from? So Sikinos, in ancient times, was called Oinoi. Why? Because it had many vineyards despite its small size and a stunning local variety, the Mavrotran.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u425	With what VAT?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u426	Wait, then he didn't have VAT. But he had nice dinosophists, like you, who gave the product an interest and a great deal of goodwill. But, in Sikino...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Amyras, let's finish slowly. I'll give you time because you were on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u428	You see, my speech is urgent. Every time I go up, someone'slaps on me' for some reason. Anyway, I wasn't Godcharis either.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u429	A communist danger.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u430	So in Sikino - in ancient times, Oinoi - there is a model winery. George Manalanis has it with his family. It's 20 acres and everything. It restored the variety of localities, the Black-World, and it managed to bring out a small, limited number of bottles, three thousand boots, but now constitutes a sign of Sicily's that wine. You tell me now, with the EUR 0.50 increase in the bottle, what a future this man has in Sicily. Yes, the winery is a model. In other words, it only operates with renewable energy sources. What are you going to tell Mr. Manalis? Will you tell him "good wines" or that you were drowned in a spoonful of wine and did not manage to get out of it? However, in a population of two hundred and twenty people, which all of Sikinos has, the number of workers in this model winery, five workers, is a huge, great contribution to the local economy. Think again, then, and withdraw this provision. But why all this? Because everything gets rough. And if you were to ask me, ladies and gentlemen, why the country cannot raise its heads, I will tell you and show you our parliamentary identity. That's why! I see the President. Is it possible for our identity, instead of "Greek Members" to write "Species of the Greeks"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u431	Eight pieces came out like this! What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u432	Eight pieces! I can't even think of half a piece!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u433	Please complete, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u434	I can't think! This "heart of the Greeks" gives the answer to the country's mess! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u435	Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u436	Mr President, when are we going to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u437	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? Please be quiet. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u438	Organize a five-minute period to ask Mr Stathakis questions about the changes he has made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u439	Okay. Let some Members speak. With one speaker’s questions and the other speaker’s questions, mobilization and noise, parliamentarians have not been given the floor so far. There's plenty missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u440	Find five minutes to ask the Minister. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u441	No, Mr. Loverdo, five minutes in my opinion is a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u442	Five minutes is a speech! Let Mr. Koutsukos say it over there! Don't you have Members to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u443	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the fact that, in every bill that comes here in this House in this process, Parliament is benefiting from this process and the government's unreliableness is revealed in all its parts. It is also the fact - which must be of interest to the citizens - that the political result produced leads to much worse results for the country and for its own citizens. I mean, it sinks a stairwell down the country. Why am I saying that? Because while we have a government, which negotiated and brought the worst memorandum, the worst deal, the third inappropriate and most ruthless memorandum, it does not have a plan that goes beyond this memorandum with its own, progressive initiatives, changes and reforms that would lead to the relaunch of the Greek economy, but unfortunately makes the worst management of this worst agreement and makes it the worst possible. And it does so in the worst way, because, firstly, its ineffectiveness occurs every time and, secondly, its subjection to those who until recently slain the so-called troika, so-called "quartet"! It is what we should be concerned about the prospect of this place. Because the bills come and go and we have a government that has become accustomed to writing and writing, voting and "voting". For a large part of the bill that we are voting on today, we had voted for it 15 days ago, and today we are voting on it. Examples of the central issues at stake in this bill are very characteristic. The first big issue is the protection of the first home, what they used to conspire when using slogans to SYRIZA and they said: "No house in the hands of a banker." We had two protection laws: PASOK Law No.3869/2010 and Merger Law No.4221/2013, which specifically defined the protection of the first home. The first is an intervention in the peace court and the second is without legal interference. What does government legislation do? Is it improving protection? No, ladies and gentlemen. It's getting worse. Now the government has been undone in a struggle to tell us how much it is fully protected, how much less it is protected and what remains unprotected. This is minor, against the big issue that the auctions will start from 1-1-2016. The only good thing for the debate is that, in recasting with the legislative improvements made by the Minister, he accepted the proposal that we made to him - and Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Loverdes and our rapporteur - to secure in transition by 1-1-2016 those who have used our own law and have not dealt with their affairs. Otherwise, the legislative improvement seems to make the conditions worse, as it says in paragraph 3(d), that ‘the debtor is a cooperating borrower under the Banks' Code of Conduct, where it applies’. That is, if he has another bank obligation from another credit card and he's not cooperative, he can burn the greens too! So the auctions start from 1-1-2016. The second example is the recapitalisation of the banks. It was said this morning how the value of the banks was depreciated from the 15-1-2015, which was assumed by the government by SYRIZA, which was about 25 billion shares, to about 2-3 billion on the basis of the stock price. This, of course, is not the fault of red loans, because red loans were like this when the value of banks was 25 billion. And the value of the banks is the money of the Greek people through the Financial Stability Fund, it is not the property of the bankers. So this recapitalisation, which is now being carried out under the conditions imposed by our creditors, is what Mr Tsipras said some time ago in Parliament that we will hand over banks to foreign hands and economy to foreign capital. That's exactly what's going on. I didn't get the pain for the bankers. I am concerned that we will have a Greek banking system, which can take into account the needs and specificities of the Greek economy and operate with these criteria, the strengthening of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the promotion and support of initiatives. I told the committee that, on the basis of these provisions, neither a clerk could the Minister for Finance, who legally agreed to improve any additions and improvements he made during the troika's suggestions last time. The third major issue which emerges - and comes here every time, and is present in Parliament, Mr Alexiades - is the continuing change in tax provisions, which we are taking and regaining assumptions from the ILO in the General Secretariat of Public Incomes, the verbalities against tax evasion, which is mostly due to the fact that the government ministers themselves and Mr Tsipras are also zero. Today we are going through provisions that legalise the limitation of cases for 2016 and we are giving full discharge, even criminal, to those that will need it. And since it has been mentioned, I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that all of our speakers have said so, that this is the third question we have asked to the government, to tell us the millionaires that it covered by the regulation of the hundreds of doses by means of a legislative act. She's not answering either. We will insist, in order to reveal ourselves, because I believe that Mr Alexiadis, who said here that he will bring us the evidence, has no personal benefit of covering some of the government who might want to cover some grand supporters of the government - and I do not know whether they are also their officials. The next issue is, ladies and gentlemen, what has to do with the government's war against the primary sector. It is the only area that created surplus balances in the years of the crisis, perhaps because of a reduction in internal consumption and imports. It has, however, opened export horizons. The winegrowers, the winemakers, were pioneers. They created added value. Because the problem of the agricultural sector is that it does not create added value. And now the government comes to put a 40-minute tax on the litre and doubles the cost of production. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We who are from rural regions and know how much the grape is, how much must costs, how much it costs a simple folk wine - but that is what our people consume - we know that the government is actually doubling the costs, declining Greek wine production, making our export industry uncompetitive. Finally, it turns out that, with the other changes it made, with 23% in VAT on agricultural supplies, with the taxes it is preparing, with the increase in insurance contributions, a sector that could support, so-called productive reconstruction, is going down further and condemning the disappearance of certain units, which were jewels and models for how to work in the agricultural sector. And so the government comes and asks us not to demagogue. We, ladies and gentlemen, say exactly the same thing, with the same consistency we support our positions. And we welcome the government when it lands in reality, but they can't ask us for the change!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Kutsuko, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u446	I shall conclude, Mr President. They must accept that they are actually landing and they must ask for an apology and then open up a serious, substantial dialogue both within Parliament and within society if they want to achieve consensus. Because, as things go, the government and the accident will soon collapse, and the country will collapse. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u447	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u448	Mr President, I would like to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u449	Please have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u450	The amendment tabled by a general deposit number 54 and a special number 16 has become an error in introductory terms. In paragraph 1 of the amendment after the words 'if applicable to the competent authority' shall be inserted in the introductory wording and not at the end of the paragraph. At the end of the same paragraph, i.e. the symbol of the introductory wording shall be deleted. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u451	Thank you for clarifying. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Without wanting to influence the election process of the Head of the New Democracy at all, I would like to call on what Mr Mitsotakis said a long time ago, with which one might disagree or agree, but I think he is politically honest. He said, "We didn't do auctions." He also said: "We had not solved the problem, but at least we had transferred it over time."It is a sincere placement and I start with it. To cover up a problem doesn't mean anything. At some point you've got to figure it out. I would also like to remind you - why the writings are left - the non paper of Catanen in the question that Dimitris Papadimoulis asked him in 2014. Read it carefully. You'll see that you're bringing yourself up to too much of what you're saying. I would even like to say, even if it is not in my interest to say: I have heard these two days, at least thirty speakers, using the phrase 'no house in the hands of a banker'. I heard one, I heard two, I heard three, four, five, six. I counted three hundred. Because I happen to be involved in too many auctions in both Ilioon and New Ionia and Piraeus, I want to say what I said yesterday, but I repeat it today: this is a negative opposition, sincerely. I'm not saying she's a fake. It's been said too much. However, they have not been said by Tsakalotos, Stathakis and Alexiadis. I would expect to see such a serious proposal. Do your negative Opposition - for me it shows a lack of arguments, shows that you do not step on your feet to invoke something bad that the current government has done - but do your suggestion of how this problem is solved. Here let me invoke a reality. The amount of income to which the borrower has the ability to escape his home is thirty - six thousand. Mr Stathakis and other ministers have said it to all tons. Let's see how. Do you know a lot of Greek citizens who have an income of three thousand nets a month? Tell me about it. So because we have looked into it, I tell you that over 36 000 euros are only 16% of Greek citizens. And because I went to auctions many times, never, ever, ever, when we heard that a house was over a hundred and eighty square feet, I was very sorry, we weren't busy. First residence, fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, ninety sq. m. and to God not a guarantee for a business loan. It's another part of this. I am saying this because I believe that the excess - I do not want to use the word 'democracy' - has made two days in this Chamber. What do I think? I call it straight away. I haven't learned to pretend. I don't think there's gonna be a single auction. Why? If anyone really belongs to 40% of the borrowers - I get the most difficult case, the one that doesn't interest us - which is not covered from nowhere does this house have any chance of saving it? It does. I will say it again: in Spain they made a very big mistake. Auctions took place at the expense of three and a half million citizens. The Spanish bankers take their hair for that nonsense they did. Ask them or look for them and you'll find the relevant data. They're obliged to support these houses. No one's asking anymore. We all know the residence has fallen. They're looking for a solution. They are now proposing in Spain that the owners of these houses pay a lower rent until they can regain their home. I would also like to point out a second part: the second category of borrowers - it is a central issue in this legislation - has the potential of the current, commercial value rather than the objective, to repay the loan. Isn't that something new? Did we know about it from the past? I say we didn't know. Mr. Tsakalots was wiped out yesterday to say the same thing. It's another thing to pay for the 200,000 euros you bought and another thing to the 100,000 that you deserve today. It's an automatic debt haircut for those who don't understand it. And that's for the first time. And I don't get 25%, which I think we all agree in this Chamber that it's a given thing to favour these people, plus the Katseli law. What do I mean? Let's look forward. This is the first time that the banks have really been trying to solve the problem - because these loans were at 10% and they went to 40% - it is the first time that banks have been trying to solve the problem, which they too are loaded with a loss. The state is being loaded with another loss of 100 million and some borrowers. I think it may not be anyone. I was taken today by a borrower and he told me "first residence and they took home". I asked him to explain. He said to me "I had a business and I had a guarantee of my home". I'm telling him "I respect your problem, but this goes to business loans, we'll see later, it's not first home you paid for and you can't now" etc. I say this because many will be triumphed with such incidents tomorrow. It's a hard possessed period for politicians with strong nerves, hard players. In ancient times, they said "two evil things for the best." Some might be wronged. And? Has the banks been recapitalisation or is it over? Is the evaluation over? Shall we go debt haircut? Let's go to the markets in the third quarter of 2016? Can we take advantage of the four investment packages - there, yes - hard criticism us - the 40 billion Yunker, the relaxation of Draghi, which for the first time tells us 'Come on, I'm putting you', the 20 billion of the low surpluses and above all the NSRF that was being given to company? I don't want to criticize the old ones. I believe that that is where we will really be tested as to whether we know how to rule. I am right to both farmers and those who go down. Half of the euro to cut me off from my pension - I tell you directly - and I would be disturbed. Yes, we rule, we get the political cost. Because something sounds about the Independent Greeks, I tell you that we are a solid parliamentary group. I'm saying again that I'm only talking about the Independent Greeks and no one else. There is no one in a million, we will support this difficult turning point in the effort to resolve it. Finally, a request: Do something with the wine, it's no longer so great. We have said that we are not prepared to take the government down either for this or for anything else. Do something, you can do it. Again: cigarette, whiskey, vodka? Find an equivalent to go to pieces. You can't hurt this industry. I believe that you know it, and you understand it, and you are making some effort at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u454	Minister, we want to ask you a few questions. Tell the President to give us the opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u455	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two teachers - attending them since the 21st Gymnasium Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Cavalellas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's draft law on protection against auctions causes both disappointment and fear. This is essentially a general liberalisation of auctions. With only limited protection of the principal residence, the supposedly beneficial for the majority of the borrowers' ban on the auctioning of immovable property for objective values - as we see here and in the corrigendum that we have now received - under EUR 120,000, is effectively abolished. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] This practice will lead to real estate auctions against degrading prices. There is surely a great risk here, due to mass auctions, beyond suicides, that all buildings should be commercialised, so that one would prefer - otherwise a conscientious borrower - not to pay back the rest of his loan because the rest would probably be more than the value of the property. There is also something strange here, this phrase 'consistent borrower'. What did you want with that? It looks like a certificate of political opinions. Is he the one who's coming to your political office to ask for ruffetti? Is he the best man, the best man? If no objective criteria are set, the banker will decide. And if anyone's not pleasing to the banker, if he didn't answer the bank's letter within 15 days, is he automatically out of protection? The announced protection of the first residence shows the government being removed from the reality and from the problems faced by the Greek economy. The previous scheme also provided for an out-of-court settlement, i.e. an inexpensive application of the debtor, in addition to the possibilities offered by Law 3869/2010. The non-liquidisation of the debtor's assets, since it is only valid for the next three years, except that it covers, as you say, 25% of the overdue borrowers is a temporary solution. It does not solve the problem definitively. We expected a definitive solution so the borrower could know what to do. Then what will come of it? We're taking his house? The initiators of this draft law must immediately calculate the social impact of the gradual liberalisation of auctions, as the cost of a decent living for the citizen is not taken into account. The criteria announced show that no scientific method has been applied, but some conclusions have been drawn. The government was only based on impersonal figures and some of the means announced. The protection of the principal residence is therefore only a preparation for its complete abolition. It's the cheese, and I hope I don't come out real. However, it seems that, since no residence is protected after three years, even if the borrower does not have any income capable of covering certain costs, or if that residence is the only asset he owns. Another point to be noted is that the debts continue to fall, so the problem, even if there is no one today, is the tip of the iceberg. Underneath there are interest and all that is charged to the loan. We have also seen nothing about consumer faith products, which many are exposed to them. In any case, the big losers are the third and the lotus, for which there does not seem to be a substantial prediction. And there's something else that might be a trap. For the debts in the banks, the winners, apparently, come out of the low-income tax. This will create conditions and incentives for tax evasion, that is to say one less to save the home. The public also intends, as we heard yesterday, to pay the banks about EUR 100 million. In our assessment of Mr Tsakalotou, if no provision is made in the General Accounting Report, this means that additional measures will be taken for taxpayers, of course, and we will be looking again for equivalents in a short time when this promise will have to be made. In addition, provision should also be made for consistent borrowers, a reduction in interest rates. On the other hand, the Minister of Economy, Mr Stathakis, urges the perpetrators to go to the bazaars and negotiate the rest, i.e. that their real estate has been devalued because of the crisis, etc. Now, as far as gambling is concerned, in this bill, the government is burdening legal gambling and sending players to an illegal market. Why should the other one be charged? He goes and plays online where he likes it. In the end, the revenues will be reduced due to the leakage. Here we are and you'll see. Now, for the hundred doses, big twists are coming. They'll be thrown out of control an hour ago with this effort of the government and will be able to do it with the changes that the plan brings. It is unfair to lose all their settlement of debts if they lose the deadline for a current obligation. As far as Greek wine is concerned, what can one say? The world is not naive. There was an effort in the Greek beer. Now the Greek wine has entered the target. It's ruining everything that's been built for years. I think the word Greek product is okay with you. You could have put a tax on whiskey, heavy alcoholics, but because they're imported, I think you're in trouble. In addition, in expensive drinks the burden would not appear, while in Greek wine it is about 100% on its value. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute. I will not be late, Mr President. As far as I.C.E. is concerned, it's an easy target. It is not a luxury for a car of two thousand cubic, fifteen years old, with a thousand problems. The other can't buy anything else, so he keeps it. And consumption is in the gasoline and a thousand or two other sufferings. The traffic charges are great, especially for those who have great cubic cars. At least, allow them to pay every quarter the fees. It will be a facilitator, and so the billboards will be significantly reduced. Because the other one can give the 200 euros. He can't give you the 600 euros you ask for immediately. Finally, I come back to the issue of red loans and mass auctions. Have you thought, after all of this world is out on the street, you unearth them, you throw the families on the street, how will you help them? Immigrants - and you do well - give opportunities for some care, housing, etc. The Greeks will impoverish them, they're even more. Anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u457	Please put an end to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u458	Please, I'll be done. I think it would be better if you would ask the President of the Republic to make a government of all the parties, to go together to the lenders, to come the big one's time, not and I think we will be better unheard of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u459	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately things are not going well for the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. But the worst part is that things are not going well for the country itself. This bill, which is being discussed today and which, of course, we will not vote on, is unfortunately another presumption, a demonstration of the government's overall folding in its post-elections in relation to its election commitments. Once again, it is proof of the collapse, of the denial of all these promises and of all the expectations that, in the two and a half years of your opposition, you have created the citizens and with whom you have managed to come to power. However, the worst of all for me, ladies and gentlemen, but also for many Vice-Presidents, and the great concern is that, unfortunately, you do not understand the position you have reached. I have heard, for example, today in many large channels and in many broadcasts of large-sighted Members from the House to celebrate the bill you have presented and the issues that I will be going through below, and to defend themselves and be very happy, as this bill is, supposedly, a product of a very tough but also a very successful negotiation. But listen, ladies and gentlemen, what are you voting on today and, as I say, we are not going to vote. As far as the protection of first residence is concerned, I shall mention, Minister, something that has not been heard so far in this House. There is a very serious issue, ladies and gentlemen. There is a question of retrospective application of the law on outstanding applications, as it states the time to discuss the application as crucial. In other words, a debtor in the years of the crisis, a borrower who because of the crisis was financially in difficulty, had taken a loan to buy a house that is his first home, had used the weapons we gave him from the previous government with n. 3869/2010, as well as the law of Hatzidakis, which was in force until the last day that you have thrown us blackmail, not voting for President of the Republic. So whoever had used the Katseli law had come in, using certain limits. In particular, it was EUR 200,000, increased by 50%, i.e. EUR 300,000. However, Article 9(2) of the Law comes. It is clear from the Commission's proposal that the aid should be limited to the minimum necessary in order to achieve the objectives set out in Regulation (EEC) No 3869/2010, which expressly refers to the objective values for rescue, that they are specified in the time-limit for discussing the cases. These highly indebted borrowers who were unable to pay their loans, appealed to the Katselis Act three years ago and took a trialogue. The debate will take place after two, five or seven years. During the debate, objective values will be defined. However, the objective values at that time, Minister, will be reduced in relation to the limits to which the borrower can be protected, which means that about 50% of the existing applications submitted and currently protected by the Katseli law will come out of protection. That's what you're doing today. If you do not do that, please very much clarify why it is very important. This regulation, as it is introduced, directly violates Article 20 of the Constitution on the principle of the rule of law, since we have retroactively applied a more unfavourable provision in existing previous cases. That is what you are voting on, ladies and gentlemen. It is not only that you vote for cancellation essentially, the abolition of any concept of first home protection since there is no automatic protection anymore. With the Hatzidakis Act, the borrower went with one application at the bank, met certain conditions and automatically entered protection. To do this now, the debtor, the weak man who has no money to pay for his loan, appeal to the court, putting a lawyer and spending it. There are two other issues. One is the question of the cooperating borrower, which you have corrected with a legislative improvement that you have brought. However, there is another issue concerning the criteria for reasonable living costs. It is stated here that these criteria will be defined by the definition of an expert, Minister. Who's gonna pay the expert? The expert will be appointed by the judge. Who's gonna pay him? Who will bear the burden? The debtor, the borrower, the co-worker, who tries to appeal to the law to protect his first residence, because he has no money to live and he does not have enough money to pay for the loan. So what you are entering, ladies and gentlemen, is not first home protection. This is essentially a lifting of protection. You leave the world at market mercy. That's the truth. This comes from a left-wing government, which, unfortunately, offers fewer tools to protect them than the previous government, which you have used and have repeatedly sprung in over the last two and a half years, has really offered to the weak. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The Deputy Prime Minister came in and brought a billboard that we already distributed and said that the risky loans in 2012, the 'non perfuming loans', that is, red loans, were about EUR 55 billion. In 2013, it was EUR 75 billion, that is, it increased by EUR 20 billion because of the crisis. In 2014, one year later, they had only increased by 3 billion euros and started to be bent, because the recovery of the economy had begun and the world had started to pay. Minister, you do not tell the Members of Parliament how much red loans are today. After ten months of your own governance you received about 78 billion euros. How many red loans have been made today? Why don't you say that red loans are currently over 100 billion euros in ten months of your governance? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Why don't you say that all the economic indicators in the country are more unfavourable and that everything goes to the worst? As far as wine is concerned, I would like to tell you that you are mad at taxing Greek products. We may buy European cars or European clothes, but the Greeks drink Greek wine. And you come and tax Greek wine. No one said in this House that it is not just forty minutes a litre, it is that at the moment all cooperatives and companies, all small winemakers, all the largest winemakers in Greece have a storage room, they have stock, they have wines inside. You know, the harvest is over, and right now they're boiling new wines. And they'll have to pay the excise duty before they even sell a bottle. So, before a bottle goes to the market, you put them on the warehouse they have, where they may not have bottled...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u461	Finish, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u462	Mr President, this is very important. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Screka, the timer's red. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u464	I need a minute. You go in and tax it. I'll tell you about a cooperative that I know has six thousand tonnes, that is six million litres. With forty minutes a tax will have to pay EUR 2.5 million tomorrow if it is implemented. But is there that money? You destroy Greek production, Greek processing. And you were supposed to be out and the world voted for you to improve and change...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Screka, take time from colleagues. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u466	Please stop the misunderstanding of the world. You are very rich in theories, very rich in promises, but very poor in implementation and result. Change quickly, because the damage you're doing is irreparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u467	Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u468	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we have so far said that your coup d'état is following the practice of the previous New Democracy and PASOKs to bring urgent legislative measures affecting the people's income, the rights of our people. From now on you have gone beyond them. Within just two months of the September elections, along with the seven previous, of course, of the Genoa elections that were in power, you have brought so many urgent measures and legislation, fully adopting all anti-democratic and authoritarian practices. You have exceeded frequency, not only percentage but also figures - if you calculate them, if you put the card down and the pencil and calculate it - all previous Memorandum Governments before yours. You have, you see, the privilege as Lefters, SYRIZOANLE to be pioneers and in this, after your full mutation, even though you insist to consider this mutation temporary. "Non-permanent in the Temporary," our wise ancestors said, much more so that the chair of power is very sweet and easily used to. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the point, I would like to say again on behalf of the JRC our solidarity with the Belarusian people who are experiencing the tragic consequences of the earthquakes and protection, such as the Kefalonites and other parts of our country. The damages must be restored immediately, compensation must be given, the control of the buildings must be carried out immediately, and all measures of earthquake shielding and protection throughout the country must be initiated. We are here today for another batch of unpopular prerequisites agreed between the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the representatives of European and international organisations and capital alliances. This is an agreement that brings out thousands of families who cannot pay the instalments of their loan, new taxes added to those in place, blackmail to pay the people's households in good time, and many more to torture for years as many households have been trying to stand up and raise their children. An agreement that also maintains the hostage of thousands of small-scale indebted enterprises, where tens of thousands of workers are employed. An agreement - a glossary that is necessary for the recapitalisation of banking groups - so that monopolistic groups can feel confident that they will open up - with the blood of the people - new fields for certain profits. This is the reality that has now been recorded in the bill for the vote in the House. "The news is good, agreement on all issues, the EuroWorking Group welcomed the progress made." That was the phrase of the President of the Eurogroup, which was sealed once again by the massacre against the people. Of course, the interest is not what they say, but how Prime Minister Tsipras perceives this issue. After years, he says, this struggle gave the Greek people the right to hope and to expect a better future. These are the words he said the other day in Parliament, while he had closed the deal with his partners, and he knew that the cost of the measures taken will be very expensive for the people's families. The "required" project has been played many times in the past. In recent years by previous governments and this year by the 'first and second time Left'. These are tough fiscal policy measures so that the country can be financed by the other capitalist states of the European Union, but also by restructuring in support of capitalist profitability. Every time new prerequisites enter into the final straightforward for implementation, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government plans something to deceive the people. When this fraud is called equivalents that will mitigate the impact, when the agreement is better than the one the previous ones have done, when there are red lines. Now fairy tale is called "fighting the interlocutory that is trying to overthrow us," they say. Except that this fairy tale has no dragon, because at the same time as breaking the people and denouncing the strife and some pimps, at the same time they ensure tax exemptions, facilities, warm money from the ESRB and Juncker package, privatisations, bank recapitalisations. And all this on behalf of large business groups, which is the great corruptor, the source of corruption of politicians, state officials and bourgeois politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, total fraud is the protection promised by the coexistence of poor people's households. The tightening of the auction truce around the first residence of the indebted people's households is, in fact, moving on from coup d'état. Basically, any protection provided remains at the lowest possible level. It will have time until 2018, while joining it will require the debtor's recourse to the courts, which will also decide on the minimum dose according to the economic potential of even the most helpless, weak households. At the same time, the communication tactic of convergence is another holocaust fraud. It is revealing that they are attempting to smack whatever legal protection is provided in the way red loans are managed, which banks are already using the Code of Conduct in the context of extrajudicial compromises and individual agreements with their customers. Indeed, according to the financial staff of the cohabitation, the Code of Conduct will be strengthened by new provisions, of course, in order to increase the number of blackmails and threats to the indebted people, by force them to cut even from basic surviving costs to meet the obligations of the banks and their major shareholders. The masks are falling. The limit of decent living, which is supposed to protect the tile of the poor people's family, is placed for the single at 8,180 euros - mixed income a year - for the couple on 13,917 euros, with an increase of 3,361 euros for each child. At the same time, the objective value limit for this protection is set at EUR 170,000, which will then fall back together with the downward revision of the objective prices. It is no coincidence that the financial staff have discovered a new corresponding deficit in the equivalent measures concerning the replacement of VAT in private education. Of course, VAT does well and leaves the schools and other schools of private education. In this context, however, there is also the introduction of excise duty on wine as well. The wine that the people of Greece drink from paying for their homes or tavernas will vote today to be expensive, because that is how the government wants to agree with the quartet. Unless we have any developments during the night. In fact, they say, one or two measures are being sought in order to complete this amount. Ladies and gentlemen, cohabitation is talking about partial protection status for higher incomes. In fact, it's just another unambiguous mockery. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] The vote will take place in a few days. There is no need for New Democracy to be fermented here, Mrs Vultesis. You are disturbing the speaker, that is, because I hear you very strongly. The amount of instalments and protection from auctions will also be determined on the basis of judicial decisions and by providing the necessary evidence from financially impossible debtors. This category, as the ministers say, concerns annual incomes with a cap of EUR 35,000 for the four-member family and an objective value of up to EUR 230,000. The determination of the instalment to be paid by households will be made by the court on the basis of the current commercial value of the first home. It should be noted that if the borrower fails to serve this arrangement, or the court considers that it should not be protected, he is immediately facing the risk of auctioning. The management of the late debts of the people's households to the IRS is another step in the direction of enforcing the culture of payments that promotes government and partners. In fact, in order to catch up with the people's households, they provide for the removal from the facility of up to a hundred instalments of households who will not be able to pay back both old cuts and the new ones that are constantly added within the given deadlines. The 30-day margin for the repayment of current tax liabilities from those who have joined the arrangement will be maintained until June 2016, then gradually reduced to twenty-ten days until 2018 completely zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u469	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u470	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of auctions in the first place is inextricably linked to the overall issue of the management of red loans, the stepping-up and policy that the banking groups will then choose. This particular issue, on which the consultations continue, is referred to a next bill. According to the financial staff, different solutions will be included for the different categories of loans, such as large business, small business, housing, consumer, but management will be promoted within the banking system, leaving them to be sold to other investors concerned. For his part, the Commissioner for Economic Affairs of the European Union noted that the process will be completed shortly with the rapid adoption of the necessary legislation by the Greek Parliament on Thursday, namely today. Ladies and gentlemen, with all that we must not lose sight of the dangerous development we have to face since the slaughter of the French people in Paris by fanatical jihadists who first supported, equipped and trained powerful imperialist states, their services and now use their murder attitude as an alibi for new interventions and for the blood of peoples in the altar of their acute competitions for the control of rich production sources in the region and the spheres of influence. United States of America, France, Russia, Germany, Great Britain, Arab states, Gulf monarchies, regional forces such as Turkey and Israel, compete with the participation of other states in the NATO, the European Union or simply the common anti-terrorist struggle. We are not concerned that Article 42.7 of the Treaty on European Union 'to provide assistance with all the available means' was unanimously activated at the French request. In doing so, for the first time in its history, the European Union officially provides the institutional umbrella for the involvement of all its Member States by all means, namely military means, in the escalation, deepening and generalisation of interventions in the wider region, the Middle East and North Africa. Instead of invoking Article 222 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is more specifically mentioned in the case of terrorist attacks, the French Government has chosen to invoke the fundamental role of NATO in this article of the European Union. Apart from other things that may be hidden, this is a move which is obviously linked to the most overall contradictions and processes in the course of the European Union, in which it is evident that the United States of America is actively intervening. Within this context, the Greek Government's assurances of non-military engagement, at the same time that ministers constantly invoke the role of NATO and the European Union, are heard as a joke. After all, all the participating ministers - the Greek Government was represented by the Minister of National Defence - accepted France's request. And in order to avoid any misunderstanding about this, the French Minister for National Defence said that every country could help in some way, quickly and in various places. Help could include greater support for Syria, Iraq and Africa. The French labelling of aid in every way refers to the various ways in which the various Member States of the European Union will be involved in imperialist interventions. Especially for Greece, and based on the pursuit of domestic capital, to upgrade geostrategicly in the wider region, the SYRIZA - ANEL - like its predecessors - has been strongly advertised throughout the previous period to assist by providing bases, other support infrastructures and means, services and logistics, as well as information - a crucial part in the conduct of war operations - without ultimately excluding direct military participation in the intervention. This agenda stinks of barbecue. We call it clear. It is characteristic that the Defence Ministers also discussed the future role and address of the European Defence Agency. It aims, inter alia, to develop defence capabilities in the field of crisis management and to promote and strengthen European armaments cooperation, as well as the Commission's action plan for the European defence industry and to develop capacities to support security and development. All of these are issues reflecting the European Union's preparations for expanded military action. In fact, they reviewed the operations carried out, in particular the operation in the Central African Republic and the maritime operation in the Mediterranean. Last Monday, the Foreign Minister, in his intervention to the European Union Council on Foreign Affairs, stood at the issue of managing the refugee issue. In view of his and the Prime Minister's travel to Turkey, he emphasised the difficulties in implementing decisions taken bilaterally or at Union level and stressed the need to have a common will and determination by all parties to implement it in practice. He mentioned, for example, the decision to relocate refugees within the European Union into the bilateral Greek-Turkey readmission protocol, the EU-Turkey readmission agreement and the EU readmission agreements with third countries such as Pakistan. We warn once again that you play a dangerous game with Turkish politics. You are opening the way, in the name of addressing the refugee - immigration problem, for contempt in the Aegean, for opening the appetite in the Turkish urban order and its allies, for extending the grey areas to the Aegean, for limiting popular sovereignty, for a new Annan plan in Cyprus. I would like to conclude by saying that this is not the subject of today's debate on a detailed examination. And because the issues are complex and many and always our people and young people are paying for it at the end, so we call on them and the movement of this House to resist, mobilise, organize more decisively and against today's measures that will be passed by your majority of SYRIZA - ANELs with the silencing and false opposition outburst of the rest of the parties that have been assisting you many differently, but also to be ready for our people for new major strikes again and for what they are coming, for insurance, health, welfare, education and labour rights. You have no doubt that this anti-grass law that is being passed this evening is not going to be implemented. There is not a single case in the million to seize, auction the first residence of a working people's family and don't think of using the whip against the workers. The people themselves will turn it against you. The great success of the recent strike and of the rallys, in which the trade unions, trade unions, federations, especially those that are grouped together in the PET, is the example of the forms of struggle, the content of the struggle in which they must be under their own flags, the genuine class flags to be rallyed, and all workers, the unemployed, the retired, the self-employed, the farmers, their children and their wives are included.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u471	The President of the Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u472	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are experiencing another express procedure in order to pass a bill to serve the so-called governmental agreement, which is, in fact, a memorandum. In fact, the President of Parliament himself, Mr Voutsis, said that the procedure must be completed by 19.00 hours, because we do not have time. And while we have no time to speed up the procedures for all these Memorandum bills, there has not been a single debate in this Chamber on the serious issues, such as the seven hundred thousands of illegal immigrants and refugees who came to our country or the Turkish-Turkish relations to which I shall refer next. Before I refer to the bill which will be passed today, I would like to remind the House that a committee of Parliament, as it had been called, was abolished in the public debt. And the memorandum that SYRIZA signed is entirely relevant to Greece's debt, a debt of 320 billion euros... Please, would you like something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Screka, dedicated, I see you in the conversation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr President. A debt of EUR 320 billion which is the subject matter and which directly relates to the Memorandum. If there were no such debt, we wouldn't have the memos. Is that debt fair? SYRIZA by January 25, 2015, said that he was burdensome and must be denounced, with the exception of the Minister present here, Mr Stathakis, who had made a statement, if I'm not mistaken, that only 5% of the debt can be regarded as burdensome. For us it is much more and, in this case, this issue must be dealt with. When we had in the previous SYRIZA government a former prosecutor here, Mr Nikoloudis, who had publicly stated that there are public works and roads costing five times over what they cost in the European Union, when we had the equipment for which they perhaps spent more than 100 billion euros and that there was overpriced in armaments - and not only for granted - we have both trials and convictions and people who have proved to be misplaced to overcompensate the commissions on national defence issues, are therefore burdensome the debt? Yesterday it is a country's debt when it has been used not for the benefit of the people. And proved was not used for the benefit of the people. So they are burdensome and you do nothing on this matter. You have forgotten the debt and you only have to bear in some general references, not even promises, that the haircut of the Greek debt will be considered. Nothing has been taken on this matter. In fact, a majority of the banks were voted on here a few days ago. It is worth remembering what happened with the previous recapitalisation, when the Greek people from their legacy gave about 40 billion euros. And what did he take? Shares. How much is the stock worth today? Do you know that? Just 2%, 800,000 euros. 39.200,000 euros were stolen from the Greek people through the well-known stock exchange method where the shares that the Greek state will take on with the new recapitalisation will again be redirected. The Prime Minister had even said in his planning statements that he would take management of the banks. But if you don't have the majority of the shares, you have nothing and the stock is going to go to the stock market and from there we all know the downhill that awaits them. Furthermore, it is very questionable whether the government, in accordance with the European Union regulations, can pursue its own policy in ignorance and contrary to what the European Central Bank imposes. What we are going to vote on today, some parties will vote against them, but in fact - to be honest - have voted in favour of them. In the ninety-seventh pages of the prerequisites of the Left Memorial we discussed on August 14, 2015, everything existed inside. And in all of this, you come with today's bill to impose a harder measure on farmers, especially on wine producers, the 0.49 litre tax on wine. But as old communists you know perfectly his lynninist tactic "two steps forward, one step behind" and so it sounds like you will withdraw the measure. Nice things! You are proposing a tough measure, having decided in advance that you will withdraw it and so you will appear to the public and to the means that you are being supported - whatever they support - as the protectors of the people. In today's bill, too, there is the issue of the first home and its confiscation by the banks. Protect only 25% of so-called red housing loans and a figure of around 35% is under the crisis of banks. That's unprecedented! There will be an evaluation committee, some people who will see if he had good behaviour that has the red loan or bad behaviour. Of course, urban parties at every election time said: 'Don't vote for the Communists because they will take your homes away'. Finally, they voted for the communists and they'll take their homes. Only they won't keep the houses and they won't share them with the people. It is said and heard - and I hope this will not happen - that they will travel to international speculative funds, from which no one knows where they will end. In fact, I heard one of the speakers, a congressman, saying that SYRIZA is consistent with his election promise to protect the homes of the people, but not the villas. Gentlemen, are you out of reality? With the objective values of 2007, every residence worth more than 170,000 euros is a villa? Are these serious things? In the other measures is the burden on the gambling of the OPAP. It seems that your forecasts for the country's economy are too bad. Because we all know that in a country where poverty is spread and poverty blooms. So you see that gambling will blossom another way and that's how you're making sure to tax it. It is a given fact that we will vote against this bill, consistent with our line against the memorandum, unlike others who voted in favour of the Left Memorandum on 14 August, which was of course going to bring measures harder like the current and other tougher ones. At this point I would like to stress that both the PASOK and the New Democracy and the River on the day of 14 August absolutely wanted an agreement. They also called the Memorandum, opening the way to the new terminology, where you call the SYRIZA memorandum a new agreement, and today they will vote against it, trying to win lost political ground. In all this, we also had the official visit of Prime Minister Tsipras to Turkey. It was a visit of no importance, which was even marked by the fact that the Prime Minister of Greece raised the issue of infringements in the Aegean and those very hours in Turkey were in violations in the Aegean! Of course Turkey has not committed itself to building stations for illegal immigrants and refugees in Turkey, so-called hot spots, but has responded in general and indefinitely. And so we have come to read in newspapers where all those who illegally come from Turkey are starting. Turkey, which is directly responsible for the murders of young children, who are drowning in boats, who leave when it has nine boars and banned. All of this as a result of some wars and riots that broke out in the Middle East, which were called "Arab Spring" and which you said "Left", you applauded and said you would make Tahrir Syntagma Square. But on the other hand, New Democracy and PASOK as a coexistence were in favour of the opposition to President Assad and closed the Syrian embassy in Greece. There are seven hundred thousand illegal immigrants and refugees in the country. Czech Prime Minister speaks directly that this is an invasion, Hungary says it is a conspiracy of international brokers to destroy the nation states. The Member States of Europe are closing their borders after each other. And I wonder where this situation will arrive with the irresponsibleness that sees the government in this big issue, which is a social bomb. But we had bombs literally in Paris with hundreds of dead and the fact - for which there was no special debate in the House - that one of the criminals - terrorists went to France, Paris from Greece, from Lero in particular, with a passport from a Syrian dead soldier. So all this process of control, which is done to those who cross our borders, is literally for the festivals. There is an FBI report that the head of this terrorist act was in Athens in the past and directed the whole project through an apartment with his cell phone. Turkey's responsibilities are high. It is a given and well-known fact that it has helped the jihadists, it has equipped them. Against all this, we are going to talk to Turkey. You are a nationally dangerous government. Greece can no longer tolerate your irresponsibility and you have no right, in the name of false humanism, to dismantle the national state of the Greeks. The Golden Dawn will resist your plans for the destruction of the Greek nation, because for us, above all false humanity, it is Greece. Finally, you're not a non-governmental organization. You are the government of the Greeks and take responsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u475	Officer Vaggelis Meimarakis has the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u476	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what the government is doing today is a double challenge. It is also a challenge in the process, it is a challenge in fact too. With regard to the procedure, a year ago, at the end of 2014, Mr. Tsipras spoke about the then government and said he was trying to lure, cover up, hide and pass the bills as an emergency from the House. I would remind you that there have been much less of the urgent bills in the two years since the emergency in the months in which you are ruling. Shortly thereafter, at the beginning of the year, Mr. Tsipras added that the next Parliament will respect the rules of democratic operation and will not bring drafts under the urgency procedure. Today Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos and the government are doing nothing but the exclusions. In other words, they are constantly opting for the urgency procedure. They choose that there is no time for substantial discussion, that there is no time for hearing bodies, that society does not know exactly what they are going to do. As they went through the deal on August 14th - and this will be written by history with the darkest signs of their own course - so now they bring a bill into the dark at midnight - from what I am told at about 3.00 p.m. - and then they get into the translation. They tried to mislead, deceive, and now they are trying to make even the most painful measures. And what do they finally manage? They prove that their only consequence is inconsistencies. They're proving it was a fraud they said in the election. They finally show that social sensitivity, social policy is a myth for the neoliberal unleashed government of the left SYRIZA. Why are you, or aren't you, gentlemen of the conflict, saying 'no house in the hands of a banker'? Is it or isn't Mr. Tsipras who just two months ago at Thessaloniki Exhibition committed that there will be no first home auction? Is it or is it not Mr. Tsipras who promised that red loans would not go to the coral, as he said at the time, that would start auctioning? Today in this bill it turns out that everything Mr. Tsipras said at the time and everything he said about the protection of the first residence was a lie to save the citizens' vote. And unfortunately, you cultivated that kind of ground. That is why colleagues have a problem of conscience today. I am curious to see how colleagues will sleep on the night of the day when you will have started first auctioning in a family that will not have to pay. That is why they have a great deal of problem, as we did. However, we have kept and no first home auction has taken place in the years of the crisis. By this law you show that the protection that existed so far is over. And because the relevant ministers say that many borrowers are protected and give various percentages to cause confusion, I give you two more examples, although our rapporteur has already given you enough: Firstly, every single fellow citizen of ours who has an income of up to EUR 35,000 with an objective house of up to EUR 300,000 is currently protected. If the law is passed, only those who take less than 8,180 euros a year will be protected and have a home with an objective value of less than EUR 120,000. Any single person who gets over 683 euros a month, as of tomorrow according to this law, is not protected. Secondly, every four-member family with an income of 35,000 euros is currently protected clean and home of an objective value of 450,000 euros. If the law is passed, only those of these families who have an income below EUR 20,600 and a house with an objective value below EUR 200,000 will be protected, that is, a four-member family with family income - not individual - over EUR 1,720 a month loses its home. Conclusion: In total contrast with what Mr Tsipras and his Government have been saying so long, the truth is that this law opens the door to first home auctions. It's a nightmare for the households. They unleash our fellow citizens with income that just exceeds 8,000 euros a year. Thousands of citizens are in danger for the first time of losing their homes. In this context, the present situation abolishes, for the first time since 2008, any extrajudicial protection of first homes. They shall, however, be abolished even after the end of 2018. Mr. Tsipras and his government, that is, show incompetence, irresponsibility, inadequacy. They're trying to equate us all down. This is the supposed social sensitivity of the neoliberal SYRIZA. Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA as a opposition voted against all the laws we had adopted and truly protected the first residence. As a opposition, he promised seismicness. He called on borrowers sometimes indirectly and sometimes directly not to pay their instalments, because he will come and make the seismic. As a government he expelled deposits, closed banks, imposed capital controls, destroyed all trust in Greece. Today, from the ‘no to everything’ that was until December 2014, it ended up in ‘yes’ to ‘yes’. He is now bringing auctions for the first residence and doing what we never did in the years of the crisis, we have not let it be and we have protected it. This is finally SYRIZA: It's the neoliberal Left who cut pensions and makes them tips. It is the neoliberal Left that increased the VAT everywhere, disproportionately affecting the poor and the middle layers. It is the neoliberal Left who has reduced the benefit to half in the heating oil and reduced the social group that deserves it. But it's the neoliberal Left, and it's an abstract this time that it's first coming out in the hammer houses and first homes. That is, we have a second time left, but first time, the house comes out in the hammer! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And yet, the government has the courage to be proud of. He's lying, he's provoking, and he's proud! In the same bill, we see the rapping going on. The second government of Tsipras - Kammenos cancels what was voted for by the first. It seems, what the Prime Minister told us, "Now we will rule this second time" and come to cancel the hundred-dollar bills that he just voted on. Changed the hundred doses a month ago. It's changing them again now and making them even harder. It is the third amendment and each amendment brings taxpayers even more difficult. They're throwing them out of control on the first occasion. But at last! How many times are you gonna change all this? What did you get through to the House? Is this House a laundry to wash your ideas? Why are you doing this kind of aalum? Why such incompetence? What don't you understand? Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the left-wing auctions, we now have the left-wing taxes. Because every bill brought by the government has new taxes. From the elections to today, there is nothing but new taxes and increasing the old. Now he puts a new tax on legal gambling while he could put his hands on illegal gambling. Why doesn't he put order in the online gambling? Why doesn't he bring such a bill so that we can vote and we can all help them? It is, however, even more worrying that it finally hits Greek production. The previous bill threatened Greek beer. This bill imposes a excise duty on wine. It hits the private sector and small Greek production. It hits unrelentingly those who produce anything. Once this government hears that someone produces and that there is a private initiative, it gets allergy. He can't stand it, he has to tear it all apart! Not only do you bring investment, but with the measures you take you will kneel down those who in the years of the crisis have been held up. And here's the big problem. You hit two hundred thousand winegrowers and twenty thousand workers in this particular sector. You are introducing a tax which has almost no other wine-producing country. Add 30 minutes tax on imported wine of 100 euros and 30 minutes in bulk Greek wine of 2 euros. 0.3% tax on imported goods and 15% on Greek. And I ask you: is that right? In your opinion, do you serve the Greek interests? We are beginning to wonder what interests you ultimately serve, who do you ultimately favour, because this affects our competitiveness, kills Greek production, drives jobs and undermines rural development. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, unfortunately, that's not all. We've got a new raisin now. The Tsipra daisy for the traffic charges, a raisin that didn't even exist in the third memorial. Because, ladies and gentlemen, many of these you knew. They were other tails, they were discussed, but little - you knew them. It is a raisin that affects thousands of families and eliminates every citizen's confidence in the state. The government with this bill also makes decisions that are also directed against public health. They made decisions affecting cheap Greek medicine and puts it more accurately - imported, but - medicines. In addition, instead of checking the costs of hospitals, it establishes a closed budget of medicines and an automatic return clause. And all of this does without a benefit to the Greek patient, without a question in hospitals and at risk of possible drug shortages. But that's not all. There are new taxes, new taxes for farmers, painful pension cuts and, in our opinion, the most heavy winter is coming: the winter of the neoliberal Left, the Left which knows neither where nor where it is. And no one should forget that everything imposed is government proposals. You will no longer be confusing that we have voted for all of this. Because it turns out today that you are bringing the bill that they have not been voted on by anyone. If we had voted for them, you didn't have to bring them. So, why are you cultivating this confusion, that we too voted for it? We're not playing it either antimony or memorials. But don't tell us on top! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should be ashamed of what happened by December 2014 and apologise to the Greek people but also to the groups that have put their backs on us when you have been blaming us as germans. Why are we telling you? Because they did not need new taxes from the beginning of the year, in accordance with the policy we followed. And they didn't need to, because the country had achieved primary surpluses and had started to cover deficits. It didn't have to be because the country had gone to development. We would have more revenue from the growth of Gross National Product and not from the increase in tax rates. It did not need to be because unemployment had started to decline slowly but rather to increase, as has happened in recent months. Unfortunately, however, for the left-wing government alone, we hear only about measures against the middle and weak social groups, and that goes no further than because neither the economy nor society can do it. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I, because I am on tours this time, if you want, go to any county to find the sensitive social groups - for which you are allegedly tired - to tell you that by December 2014 it was much better than in November 2015. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The New Democracy is and remains an authenticist of the European orientation. It is a power of responsibility and of social responsibility and at the same time moves within the framework of reformist radical liberalism, with social and human face, because man is at the heart of our policy. We, whatever the country needs to go forward, will support it, but where you make tragic mistakes and the mixture of policy that you follow and do not go ahead with us, we will be against you. That is why these measures which you are bringing today are measures of your own, measures of Tsipras - Kammenos and Government of SYRIZA - ANEL. I will not interfere with your inner-party and internal affairs, as you did with us, because I will remind you that the leader of the congressive party called on the Members not to vote for the measures we have brought. I will not say to them 'Don't vote for the first residence'. Of course, I will tell you "with what conscience you will vote for the first residence", but in your inner party I will not intervene. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you expected the New Democracy to have problems, look at you to solve your own problems, and I assure you that the New Democracy on Monday, united and strong, will be here, present, to do even better with its institutional tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u477	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u478	Good evening, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maymarakis wanted to convince the Chamber that until January was better.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u479	December.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u480	But the people told him he didn't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u481	Now he's comparing, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u482	He now hopes that on Monday - because they have procedures for the election of President - the New Democracy will be strong. I think it will be more right, and that will be easier for the Centro Association, because it will become much bigger.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u483	That's why you make choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u484	New Democracy will be a better right, Mrs Bakoyannis, on Monday. I make that prediction and we can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u485	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u486	We get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u487	It is strange that there are people in this Chamber who are completely unrepentant. I saw a PASOK MP out. He said to me: "Would you vote on the SYRIZA Government?" I say: 'From where did you hear that?' It says: 'That's how they spread'. Listen, to finish: we will not vote on any government unless we have an answer on the nine points. I have sent the Prime Minister a memorandum with nine points, and I have not received a reply. So it doesn't agree. And I understand why he does not agree to apply these nine points. Why the slow-wages have to be identified in the municipalities, the CECE, so the customer regime is being dismantled. The wages of all the members of parliament, from the President of the Republic to the MP, to metropolitan, to the district manager, must go 50% below. All pensions must be merged into one, and today we have three hundred thousand three-fold pensions. So one person gets three pensions and we have three hundred and thirty thousand people with three-fold pensions. We have two hundred and twenty thousand outfits, that is, two to three seats, based on the General Accounting Office of the State, and we have one and a half million unemployed, who are not a million and a half unemployed, because new entrants in the labour market are not registered as unemployed. We have two hundred and eighty thousand early retired people, who your status here made them prematurely retired, and of the forty-five are in cafes and liquor. So at nine points no party can say yes, because they are accumulated sins for forty years, a customer regime forty years. So I answer to the masters of PASOK that they went with the Right. We do not have to go with anyone, because we have no answer on what we are calling for and the mandate to enter the House - because the Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Central-Centro-Centro-Central-Centro-Centro-Central-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centro-Centen. I see another party, Potami - and I would like to address Mr Theodorakis - which, before the elections, said 'yes, yes, vote quickly, do not lose the train' and now says 'no' to everything. What's that? Is that a consequence? Is it a serious party logic? That is, before the elections, he felt Grexit's fear and voted and quickly called upon the SYRIZA government to delay. Now this is what SYRIZA is doing, what they went and voted for and signed, and now none of it is voted on by Mr Theodorakis. Is this a serious party responsible for continuing its tactics? It's a net vote. The New Democracy has again become an anti-immemorandum. Samaras started a memorial, deleted Mrs Bakoyannis, who we have here, continued a memorial, and now that New Democracy is in Anti-Population, considering that this is how it gains power, it is again an anti-Memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, the Centro Association cannot vote for this bill, of course, because this bill, like the SYRIZA officials themselves, is a product of blackmail. So one night Mr. Tsipras was blackmailed and before fear of not getting out Grexit he went and signed it all. And now it calls on the House, its own signature, for the House to legitimize it by voting on it. If you think that with such tactics the country will stand up again, you are mistaken. Since 2009 I had told George Papandreou, who had taken a hundred sixty-seven seats: “Don’t form a government! You'll be ridiculed. You will need to take such measures that you will not be able to get out of your house." He said to me, "But, since I have a parliamentary majority, can I not form a government? I have a hundred sixty so many." I said to him, "You'll pollute the grandpa's name!" You will become a Prime Minister, but with lies, with "the money is". He did not listen to me and formed a government and then begged Samara since June 2011 to make a coalition. They didn't make him in June, they made him in November, when he did stupidity and he proposed a referendum. Then fortunately Members were found, a little more serious than George Papandreou, in the House and said: What are these, man? You put the country's strategic choice for the euro in a referendum? The people will respond 'no' to the bad economic climate and this will be translated 'no' to the euro. They called him almost mad Giorgos Papandreou and took his head away. He did not listen to me in 2009 and in 2011 he resigned. I used to yell at Samaras, "Submit your resignation. It's not a government you've done with PASOK. It's nothing but conjugation. Go and submit your resignation and form a universal government of technocrats competent to solve five problems, because the country's political life has been humiliated and the credibility of the political system has been lost." He didn't listen to me either. There came a nice morning when he too, ladies and gentlemen, when he said he was on the market next month. So please listen to me, Mr. Tsipras. It will be my third prediction in this Chamber. Let Mr. Tsipras hear me out. He's walking a pointless way. People are leaving him faithful. Are these people crazy? Oh, no. It's just that the Greek society is not convinced. And putting a muzzle on your MPs... And Mr. Tsipras does something else in this Chamber. It disseminates the following: 'Modify the tough measures and we will get the debt out of us'. Official politician who came to Athens told me that a single euro will not be laundered. All that can be done is an extension of debt payment. He's mocking SYRIZA MPs, Mr. Tsipras. Instead of doing such things, which simply give him time credit, and the ending will be to go one day to the President of the Republic for resignation, to go now, not to eat any more time! As to the formation of a universal government by technocrats, I have to say that political life has rotted. He has no dignity or credibility. All MPs accept people in your offices and promise appointments even today. Or am I lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u488	I guess it's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u489	I'm lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u490	I lied very clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u491	How? I'm lying. So, with those who come to your office, are you talking about the Cyprus issue? Are you talking about the euro?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u492	So you're judging the weird ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u493	Please. Are you talking about the euro? Are the miles coming and conspiring at your offices for the Cyprus issue? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u494	Learn to respect the MPs so we can respect you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u495	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u496	There's your name on what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u497	You're welcome, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u498	Let it be. Solve the Cyprus at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u499	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u500	That's why I'm saying a few words. Mr. Tsipras went to Turkey. What does Turkey want? Being in the Aegean Sea, mistress. Isn't that what he's asking? And joint committees were set up to do so. It's done. Now it's just to see it. Under the pressure of the refugee you will see joint patrols. And from the joint patrols then, only the patrols of Turkey will be left. And you'll see after all. In any case, the solution of the universal government will not deny it because the more you deny it will be the greater your responsibilities. I would also like the New Democracy to go into the government because it is a period when the people will be asked for very large responsibilities, and it is wrong for the half Parliament to swear the other half and undermine it. All states have found the strength to politically unite and go to negotiate like a body, a fist. The only country that did not manage to overcome its complex and stay in bilateralism is Greece. We're still staying in bilateralism. Do you know why? Because those who left New Democracy went to the junta and those who left the PASOK went to SYRIZA to protect themselves in the client regime. Those who left PASOK didn't go anywhere else. PASOK is SYRIZA. In fact, I meet people who were barbarians of PASOK, presidents of local organizations and committees, etc. And I ask them, "What did you vote for?" And they answer me "SYRIZA because we are civil servants and I believe they will protect us in something". To what will you protect them, ladies and gentlemen? To what are you going to protect these people who are victims too? You put them in public, and now you slowly cut them off and take the bite through their mouths. What are you going to protect them from? The state has slipped. What are you going to protect them from?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u501	Did we get them? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u502	Did we get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u503	You can't protect anyone anymore. Control's gone. And in the name of this lost control, and why I am struggling for the future of the country, I ask for a universal government. As long as you deny her...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u504	What Ministry do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u505	Let me be the only one in this Chamber. I don't care...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u506	Who should we put? Suggest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u507	The logic of staying alone is reasonable. And there's a lot of power in the logic, multiplier force, because all of you when you see bankruptcy, you'll charge them to the rooster. We will stay here to serve the effort to raise Greece up. Mrs Bakoyannis, I wish you - because my word is over - the universal government is asking you to be the whole New Democracy on Monday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u508	The President of Potamio, Mr Stavros Theodorakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u509	You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the crime in Paris because I have heard some in the last few days, just after that fateful day, to reproduce foolish clichés for poor bombers. And they do it all the time on ERT, on public television. Do we understand exactly what happened in Paris? I think we should be careful. It's an insult to the victims, and it's like we're telling them it's the poor who kill the rich. Is this a class matter that happened in Paris? Poverty does not make people terrorists either in Greece or in Europe. And we're not in a cliche contest, fascists say that refugees are the terrorists, the bombers, and some of SYRIZA say that poverty and oppression make our children a kamikaze. If it's out of the question, because, as a rule, these people, children, are of a tiny order and, of course, brains are prestigious to the Islamic state. You'll tell me what this has to do with the bill we're talking about. Let me tell you that it is in the same chapter of politics. Greece is a hostage of clichés, most of which are signed by you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Strip left populism against the clichés of right-wing populism. And with these clichés you wanted to make politics. 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Good and homogeneous. You went to the elections with this slogan that, in his translation, he said, "Don't pay anything, you won't lose anything"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u510	Everybody with the same slogan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u511	And we went to the elections, saying, "No one loses their home, whether he is unemployed or has no other property". Our motto didn't even end up homogeneous. And who won the election, you know that. In these elections, he won a lie and a cliché. The Aegean has no borders. "Does the sea border have any borders and we don't know that?" Mr. Tsipras was questioned from the outset. This is where you will allow me to make a national parentheses. Prime Minister has been unprepared in Turkey. They all say it in Cyprus. I will not say anything more in public at the moment, but there should be an effort by the government official to exclude national policy, policy on Turkey from the amateur framework of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, because in addition to all others, the result can be immediately disastrous. We should, however, go back to the clichés: no tax on farmers, bring the minimum wage back to the public, everyone turns to the public, abolishing HIS and presenting PPC, transport, water, toll. All that is necessary is for the Greek people to know how to play quid and dull, and foreigners will pay and listen. We should say - and go to a new era of self-awareness - that some of SYRIZA and ANEL should be very ashamed of what we are living for. I am not saying for everyone, because it is always the responsibility of those who draw the line, those who give the assurances, those who lead it. And they must be ashamed today, deceived the Greek people by lying. Here we can make two cases. Whether they were lying consciously, so it's for all of us I believe political fraudsters or there's another version, that they didn't lie consciously -- to accept it -- but they said what they thought, what someone said, what they heard Lasopulus say on TV. But are they leaders? A citizen has no responsibility if he just says what he thinks, but someone who wants to rule, someone who wants to become a minister, someone who wants to lead, is entitled to say what he thinks, to unleash magazines, newspapers, to make a Zapping and make a political proposal? That's how we got here - I mean, not only today - because there were - and that, yes, we have to say it - in the past, many politicians who have dealt with the problems of the country and the political deadlocks as a report of ideas. House of Greeks, House of Adolescents, not in war, not in injustice, not in unemployment, not in oppression. The art to talk and say nothing. The art to rule and don't change anything. But I'm afraid the SYRIZA - ANEL government has finished it, which is what youth says. You rule, gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL, continuing to shout out slogans, creating rough laws without program and no targeting. It is terrible that the papers prove that 70% of what you are asking us to vote on today is to correct some of your wrong decisions of the immediate past. 70%! Of course, it is unexplainable what they are going to do for wine, a excise duty, namely to dismantle producers in Crete, Samos, the Peloponnese, Thessaloniki, Macedonia. You need to know - I don't know if you're taking part in this conversation by the producers - that everyone is asking the following question: do you also have such ignorance or impose it on someone else, say the lobbies of hard drinks? Is that how we're going to continue incapacitated and disfellowshiped? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we say that you should go out to the deceived crowds that gather slowly in Syntagma square day after day and admit to them that you had no plan for the country, that you should have agreed in Spring. You must admit, you must say that we did not negotiate anything essential except some words that we were changing. You know that's not what I say, it's what people who leave. Mr. Gabriel Sakellaridis was number three trustworthy in the previous government. Go out to the world, then, to justify these measures which you want to vote today. I think you can't. Because most of this is unfair and what's not unfair is day by night than what you promised. Nevertheless, I'm going to surprise you. We do not say 'well to get you out of it'. We say: dare apologise, tell the Greek people the truth, become humble, not to please us, we will not rejoice, but to understand the deceived Greek people that the way you promised him does not exist. As far as we are concerned, the best you can expect, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANELs, is that people say that you were wrong, but at some point you had the courage to admit it. So get out of the chariot of complacency and try to find solutions. We, often - densely, suggest some solutions. We presented proposals. We told you about some equivalents. Of course, most of them ended up in the disposable basket. But there are solutions. Many of these were also proposed in the election or, to be precise, we had the courage to propose many solutions in the run-up to elections when you were just saying slogans. And that may be our big difference, the big difference of the river from the parties of power, and especially from the party that governs today, that their stress was to make good clichés and our stress is to find the right solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u512	Before giving the floor to the President of the Democratic Association, for a minute Mr Alexiadis has been asked to present a legislative addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u513	With this legislative improvement we are tabling, we are amending Article 13, the famous article on the subject of excise duty on wine. Reduce from 40 to 20 euro, so it means 0,15 minutes from 0.30 minutes per bottle. It is clear that this only concerns domestic consumption, that is, imported wines will also bear the same burden. It is clear that it is not about the wines that are for export. This will, however, be determined by the decision of the Minister of Finance, which is provided for in the same article. So we're reducing the original tax burden to just half.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u514	Please testify and be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u515	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u516	The President of the Democratic Independence, Mr. Genemas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u517	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister - he may not be present, but I imagine he is following this debate, even from his office - in this bill there is no need for any introduction. I'm going straight to the point. You're a government that's an analgesic. With concise procedures you unleash the world. I have to admit that you're too good at selling. But today it turns out you're much better at selling. And I'm just explaining what I mean. You have sold fake words and "first time left". Today you're selling out hope. You sold hard negotiations and today people collect taxes, evictions, despair. That's not left. You're a government compromised, giving it all away. You have an absolute responsibility, Prime Minister, for everything that happens from now on. Because Grexit is in our yard and your policy is at risk of causing social explosions. But in turn, we should take it. Firstly, with your signature, the auctions for medium and poor households are being released. The full coverage relates to only 25% of red borrowers. And on this subject you are all words and essence zero. You voted against the PASOK law that you even like to call it Katseli law. And now you're threatening to throw people out of their homes. 'No house in the hands of a banker'. You have heard this too many times today during the debate. Many people reminded you. Do you remember that? Can I add a few more? "As long as SYRIZA exists, an auction will not take place in Greece." Have you forgotten? 75% of borrowers remain without any protection at all. In terms of minimum conditions, they will be able to respond. And you know that. So let go of the lies and the thick words at last. The deception of citizens on such a sensitive issue is a black page in our political life and the worst is the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL. We have protected the houses of the Greeks for five years by the law of PASOK. That is the truth and you will finally have to accept it. You owed, you had to catch the spoon and go ahead, improve this law, which you said at the time was inadequate. Clearly it could and had to be improved. Conscientious poor payers should not be allowed to exploit the situation. I have had the opportunity to discuss this and with Mr Moscovisi and Mr Schultz, insisting on the position that medium- and poor households should be protected, people who are experiencing the effects of the crisis and really cannot meet their obligations. You, along with the dry and the fresh. You open the saint for mass auctions, which will cause domino effects even to owners who have not taken any loan at all. There will be disastrous effects on the market and on the value of property. Instead of extinguishing the ENPIA as you promised, you eliminate the property of the citizens by evictions and dramatically reducing the value of the properties. And yet another proof of social analgesia is that there is no particular mention, no special care for the disabled and the tenants. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government, even now you will accept the proposals of the RESEMA and the Multifibre Arrangement. Secondly, you go to new taxes by undermining competitive sectors of the Greek economy. You make, gentlemen of the government, a big mistake committed to VAT 23% in private education. Why? Because you gave up the pressure on beef which is 90% imported. And now you're improvising. You try after the outcry that you accepted from hundreds of thousands of Greek families to correct the mistake by committing other mistakes worse. Is it really possible to impose Greek wine production on a new tax? I heard you earlier that you said you'd cut him down. So, do the wine growers now have to owe you a favor and be happy as well? Of course, your ideas and your disdain for what is extroverted, innovative, for what creates jobs and advertises the name of Greece. It sounds, I don't know if by the end of the debate you'll accept that, too, including orangeades and refreshments. I hope that the improvisation will end somewhere and that's what your final choice has heard, despite the fact that it also creates equally important problems. The best of all would be, Minister, to get this provision back and to arrive at a decision that will not affect the Greek economy, the Greek entrepreneurship. Third point. Once again you are leading to decisions of shame in the Greek Parliament. You ask - at the request of the Troika, of course, that you made it a quartet, after the tuuli you went into influence by classical music - to change in just a few days what the Greek Parliament itself voted on. Truly, gentlemen of the government, you were electorally celebrating the setting of a hundred instalments. What do you have to say now that you're slaping a piece of it? What do you have to say about the photographic provision you bring to enhance the presence of the Troika's selectors on the bank boards? Am I right in love with Mr. Tsipras? Troika and banks? In the government's programme statements of 5 October here in this Chamber, you promised that the banks that will need recapitalisation with the Greek State's money will also have the corresponding management. You warmly applauded him, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, your Chief of State for this. You wanted banks of the people. How do you really feel now that you hand over the bank management to foreign hands? It is purely photographic the provision by which three members are appointed to each bank board, members prohibited from dealing with the Greek banks for ten years, but should have fifteen years of pre-service to banks - which is what? - and especially three years to foreign banks that are not active in Greece. What do you have to say, Prime Minister, about all this? Do you not realize that the resilience of the banks will also bring about resentment of the Greek economy and Greek businesses? Do you not realize that this arrangement is directly linked to the future of business red loans and their intention to sell them to foreign funds that you have denounced throughout the past period as market crows? We expect to see what SYRIZA Members will do about it and whether they will be faithful to their applause a month and a half ago. For it is clear that you have not solved your internal problems through the elections, which is why you have caused it. The lies are over. It's time for the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against this bill. We are not hiding our enormous concern about developments in the economy and society. I would like to point out once again. We have a government that, with its policy, keeps Grexit parked in our courtyard and the risk of having social tensions, with all these developments and the continuing retreats of the government, is unfortunately visible. All this is dangerous, particularly in a climate loaded throughout Europe, with ISIS across, with fundamentalist terrorists threatening our European societies and our way of life. It is time for all, ladies and gentlemen, all those who declare and want to do so, strengthen and achieve the only national strategy for exiting the crisis by ensuring Greece's stay in Europe and in the Eurozone, which is the only option that in this very troubled period ensures security and stability for Greece. Unfortunately, the government leads us to a lasting deadlock, it constantly retreats, because it is dubious, it loses time and opportunities, it does not have competence, it does not have personnel with knowledge and it does not carry out serious treatments. Unfortunately, you have no development plan. You have no plan to create jobs. You suffer allergy with anything that supports Greek entrepreneurship and investment in this country. You're leveling people's lives all the way down. All down. That is why you are not hesitant about taxing Greek production. Let us be honest: How many poor people did you tax and how many sums did you collect, as were you electionfully committed? And, by the way, when will you finally give us the names and information that our Members have been asking for for a long time on the great ones who had made use of the one week's graceful provision that has even come by legislative act? Or are we looking for too long? "Here is the priest. There's the priest. Where is the priest?" And the worst things are coming. Agricultural production is subject to exterior taxation in the production process, in farmers, farmers, in processing and in products. The small and medium-sized farmers are being destroyed and their products are being threatened by the imports that the government diligently protects. And instead of dialogue, you welcomed them with a match and a violence, the ones you would have done away with. The insurance bill comes without any dialogue with society and institutions, with the sole aim of new cuts and, indeed, with the introduction of a neoliberal inspiration system. I am not ignorant - not at all - of the responsibility of the partners. Many of their demands are unacceptable and create huge problems in Greek society. But it was always them. The relationships have not changed over the last year, but, on the contrary, conditions for us, for our country had improved. The question is: What are you doing? What's your policy? What's your plan? Because she's not left. You are compromised, ineffective and say 'yes' to everything. The Democratic Reconciliation today says a great 'no' in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u518	Mr President, as a parliamentary representative, I would like to ask a question about Mr Alexiadis' amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u519	Then, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u520	Mr President, we had to ask him two, three questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u521	It's not about law school. The Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. George Stathakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u522	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one triumphs in here, but no one suggests that we are leaving a universal protection system, which was supposed to exist - and we are going to a 'limited protection' system, as is said. I would like to see it straight away. I will go to the New Democracy with the moratorium and the law of Hatzidakis. Wasn't the income limit at 36,000 euros? Over that limit was there protection? Therefore, the moratorium was directed at the 36,000 euros. If I remember correctly, that's the limit to the law we're proposing. I will address the PASOK Katseli or the code - decide what you want to call him - and I will ask you the pragmatic question: did this law protect a household - say - which is over 80%, which had a real estate worth EUR 160,000, but next to it has this social group of properties worth EUR 406,000? In practical terms, the distribution of the income of borrowers, the value of the real estate and all the real estate of each household in the distribution. [[At this point, the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, I repeat, if it was universal protection, as you say, then it means you have to explain two simple things. Firstly, there are hundreds of seventy thousand households from the four hundred thirty thousand who have red loans and the second we need to explain is how the first home was protected from the law, if the total value of the properties was multiples of the first. On the basis of this data, therefore, let us distance ourselves from this idea either of the New Democracy or of the PASOK, that the systems have provided universal protection. On the contrary, I'd say. I can add the rejection element to the Katseli Act, 40%. What this law did, however, and it is a fact and has had a lot of good points, and it has introduced two concepts that are basic and we keep them in the new law. The first is the concept of the overdue household, that a household has recourse to the law, when it is overdue, and on this side of the law we strengthened it in August, adding not only the debts to the banks, but also the debts to the IRS and the insurance institutions. So we have strengthened the character of the overdue household and the need for the judge to see all the debts and to regulate them accordingly. The second element is, of course, the protection of the first home for the vast majority of households who can be protected, because it is their main asset, in this law. We pulled the line and the evidence I've submitted is quite revealing. For objective value, I am not discussing this because, as you know, in relation to this criterion, the total objective value, the highest I find is EUR 225,000. In 100% of Greeks, the objective value of their first residence is lower than that of Greeks. Second criterion, the criterion of income. The 35,000 euros income criterion, which we have put in, covers 63% to 64% of borrowers and 85% of people who make an income tax. I repeat, 85% of our fellow citizens are under this income and about 60% of our fellow citizens who have received a loan. It is therefore a fair point of reference above which the possibility of a judicial protection mechanism begins. That's all for the limits. The second limit of income, which the state is involved and supports the household, is 25%. Let me remind you that at this level of about EUR 15 000 net, EUR 20,000 gross, about 30% to 35% are covered by borrowers and at the same amount we reach 75% of Greek taxpayers. And I say this in the sense, not only of those who have received loans, but also of the sense of the measure on what social groups and categories we are talking about. So what does the new law do in this respect, having pulled these two limits? The first point is to always remember that this law is in the context of an attempt to resolve a problem. The problem is red loans. We are talking about a record on the red loans of the Greek banking system, which is 40%. I would remind you that in Europe it is 5% to 7% in the banking system. I would remind you that we are moving towards a recapitalisation, but not just a recapitalisation like the previous ones, but also with the integration of the Greek banking system from 1/1 into the European banking system. So we are entering a single system, which, if possible, we must tackle at the same time the problems it carries in a fair, correct and reasonable manner. So we need to deviate the red loans. Faced with this de-escalation, there are a number of tools already voted on before this law, which encourage the restructuring of red loans and their greenery. The Code of Conduct with the minimum subsistence - I am referring to EUR 1,100 based on ELSTAT - actually urges the banking system to restructure the borrowers' loans on the basis of the minimum living costs of a family of EUR 1,100 in order to 'green' loans on the basis of this objective. Therefore, the reduction of the income suffered by a household under this Code should incorporate a restructuring and renegotiation process with the bank with some objective consideration. The second institution that we introduced last August is the establishment of a public body which reflects the ability of a household to serve loans. What's this body doing? Whatever the court does. In other words, in the court - and not in the court - the borrower is obliged to produce all of his assets. On this basis, the possibility of repayment of a loan is reflected. In other words, we have an objective foundation that banks must respect and adjust. The borrower thus gains a strong advantage in order to claim a fair settlement of his loan. We're opening fifty information centres. We are strengthening the peace process for speeding up procedures and so on. I come under these circumstances to what exactly this law does. This law says three basic things: firstly, if all the other things we have put before them are not working and the household feels that the practice of banks is threatening or not a fair treatment, it has the right to resort to the law. The household, by appealing to that law, and since these two criteria have been met - the income criterion and the objective value criterion that is given - has to be decided on the basis of the current value of the property today. A process of printing the real value of the property in commercial terms is therefore inaugurated today. This is done by a process. It'll make some rules for the Bank of Greece. The judge will move on. In essence, on the basis of this value, the loan to the borrower is divided into two tranches. One part is the one that is expelled, resulting from the current commercial value - we will all agree that it is less or less than the original value when the loan was received - and the second part of the loan is the non-performing one, which has been put aside for three years with a view to deletion at the end of the three-year period. This adjustment apparently improves the dose to be served. It's a positive arrangement for the borrower. Weightly reduce the dose. However, the bank's damage to this write-down of the loan is also recorded. The second issue concerns the substance of the law. A part of these households that are under 25% fully covered. In other words, this procedure is being carried out, the price is being reflected, the monthly instalment that this household has to pay, and this is called upon to pay a minimum contribution - we estimate 5% for the 8 000. 10% for the intermediate category - and the rest comes and complements it. This is the second category, 100% protected by state aid and support. The third category concerns the interim category of EUR 20,000 to 36 000. Here, based on the new price and the new valuation, the household is invited to serve its loan. I repeat, based on our statistics in this category, the amount of loan these households have received in this category mid-weightly, I can tell you that it is about 70,000 the average objective value and about 90,000 the average housing loan. Based on these statistics, it is unlikely or too difficult to think about household cases that cannot serve the loan resulting from the current commercial value in this category, I repeat on the basis of the statistics we have, both on the size of the apartment - we are talking about apartments under 103, 104 square meters - and on the average loan of this class and an average income, as we imagine. So, in order to lose the possibility of a household serving its loan and risking it, it must have suffered an income reduction and have disproportionately expensive real estate. However, in this case - and I am entering the third and final part - the judge in these marginal cases will bring the matter back to the bank and the bank, before moving on to any other act, must exhaust the scope of the Code of Conduct in order to restructure this loan and not lead to the extreme solution. In these circumstances we should probably agree that the law has specific advantages, has specific limitations. Obviously, in its application for three years - we will review six months before it is completed - we will have to see how it works in practice. We invest in the idea that the law itself will encourage the large de-escalation of red loans by itself and at the same time, it will create the guarantees for the large majority of households, as I mentioned to you. And we think - and I insist on that - that the idea that there was a team...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u523	Minister, time is pushing us. If possible, shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u524	I'll be done in a minute. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The idea that there was a large social group that we are exempting today is misleading, because I repeat for the last time that the two previous laws have had, the Hatzidakis law of 36,000 euros, which we fully maintain, and the original law actually banned that social group, more than 20%, whose properties and values are more than twice the value of their first home. That is where we recognise that we are taking a step back, rather we are doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u525	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being informed about the history of the building and how the House operates and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall twenty-four students and students and three teachers attending the Malian Municipal School of Malia Heraklion and the 2nd Elementary School of Naples Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As far as I know, the following agreement has been reached to close today's sitting before we go to the roll-call vote. Mr Athanasios will be speaking with a limited period of five minutes, Mr Mandas will follow, who himself offered to reduce his time to five minutes, and Mr Alexiadis will be closed, who may have to answer some questions, with reduced time, and the sitting will be closed. Let's start with Mr. Athanasios so we don't waste time and if anything comes up, we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me first of all to say that it is a mockery of the fact that the bill does not remove VAT on education. Because, while the equivalents are included in Articles 13 and 14...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u527	The amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u528	Now we're seeing this. In addition, the sloppyness of previous legislation that came to Parliament under the same procedures in the previous period, as more than half of the bill consists of legislative improvements to these laws, and we have already had whole pages of legislation today. It is now clear how the government works, which, while pretending to be negotiating until the very last minute, then draws up legislative and legislative monstries, which it introduces to Parliament, by means of the urgent procedure to limit control and the substantive debate on the problematic provisions. At the speed of this bill and the structure and complexity of the provisions, I doubt that many colleagues had time to understand. In view of the fact that time is limited, I shall refer to the basic provisions and first of all to the amendment of the first paragraph. 3869/2010, the so-called Katseli law. The provisions of Article 14 of the plan are a memorandum of political hypocrisy, since one of the main aspects of the plan to defraud the Greek people, which the government successfully conceived and implemented during the previous government's term of office. It is clear that the changes in the Katseli law now change the whole philosophy of a law, which had good intentions - and I must say that this law in times of economic crisis was right - but it wanted better planning. If our government had made better arrangements than those already proposed, but moving on to the same philosophy, SYRIZA would require the fall of the government and would say that the homes of the people are delivered into the hands of the bankers. Let me remind you on this, to make sure that, when we had the negotiations and talked to the Government Board of Private Debt Management, the percentage that should be the first offer price for the auctions and our lenders were asked to be determined at the value of 1/3 rather than 2/3, we played a great game to achieve and maintain 2/3 of the objective value of the property. This was the difference in the negotiations and the effectiveness of our Government with yours today's successes'. It is therefore clear that the proposed arrangements are much worse than those which would have been legislated if the period of the previous decade had not taken place. The uncertainty and the cessation of economic activity led to a substantial collapse of the banks. Their funds have been drastically reduced due to the outflows, while non-performing loans have been increased at the same time. The above raised the need for banks to recapitalise with money borrowed by the Greek people. For all these reasons, it is clear that the solution that would have been chosen would have been a bad one. We were discussing in the KYPSDIX - and I and the Development Ministers - both Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Dendias and Mr Skrekas later - changes in the philosophy of remaining similar and basically similar to that of the degree of protection of borrowers, but of speeding up the system and finding mechanisms to discourage the strategic bankruptcies, so-called batters and having ones. That is why all of our efforts had been directed towards speeding up the law enforcement through the automation of specialisation and judicial officers, a concentration of cases in the seats of the counties, and also to reorganise the process of providing temporary protection that created incentives for malicious applications in the law. The government, while with Mr von Wogau. 4336/2015 implemented some positive elements... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u529	You have a minute, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, Mr President. We were the first to propose categorisation in the negotiations. Only in this way can you succeed, Minister Stathakis, in speeding up and categorising cases, but also speeding up the concentration of all cases in the seats of the Court of First Instance which is the seat of the Court of First Instance, otherwise you will not achieve anything. Cases are already identified in 2030. I would like to say a few words - and I am ending - about the regulation of debts with your own v. Regulation (EU) No 512/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing This is where the loss of regulation for those who join it is specified and do not pay any debts by subjecting them to regulation. The period shall be subject to the time limits of the Code of Tax Procedure and of the CEN. The deadline is thirty days from 1-7-2016 and 15 days until 31-12-2017. One wonders what the deadline is next, unless it is foreseen that everyone will have paid up until then and mathematically it is probably impossible to do so, as the deadline is not set. The logic says it will be lost automatically, Minister. You need to see it. Also, from 1-1-2017 to 31-12-2017 - I say this, Mr President, is very fundamentally, perhaps they want to make some improvement - it is foreseen that the arrangement is lost when the debtor is delaying debt payments twice in the six-month period. The regulation therefore becomes more stringent for debtors. Finally, a new debt arrangement of more than fifty thousand is granted only when the debtor proves financial weakness. In conclusion, for many years the provisions on the arrangements for debts to the State established by SYRIZA and making it easier to dismiss the debts owed by them, in particular from 1-1-2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u531	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u532	Mr. Mada, wait a minute. Because Mr Alexiadis wants to make a legislative improvement, I give him the floor for both the legislative improvement and I won't give him any more. Mr. Alexiadis, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u533	Not now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u534	Don't you want to talk at all next?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u535	I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u536	Now. Do the law school, too. As we have heard from the Bureau, six minutes are shorter than those of everyone. You have the floor now, Minister, for six minutes to do the legislature and say what you want. Then there's Mr. Mandas and a minute has been asked by Mr. Loverdos for a question to Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u537	Can Mr. Mandash be ahead of us, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u538	Oh, no. You requested...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u539	I didn't ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u540	Two minutes. Because you were gone, Mr. President, I lead Mr. Loverdus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u541	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u542	Wait till the speakers are finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u543	Wait a minute. I didn't ask for the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u544	We've been informed that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u545	I didn't ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u546	It's okay. Haven't you got the law school ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u547	I'll get her later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u548	No, just so we know before...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u549	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u550	So you don't have her ready. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u551	As far as I am concerned, Mr President, there is no pressure on Mr Koutsouba, so give me seven minutes. I'll be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u552	Let's go. As I have shown tolerance to Mr. Athanasios, I will show you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u553	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are living at a difficult time. We are living at a time when it is burdened by the complex problems of wars and terrorism, which are often fuelled by the same centres, the refugee flows, the enormous inequalities, the extreme developments in climate change, etc. However, this session would, if I may, say that it presents...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u554	Ladies and gentlemen, please. We're getting to the end. Keep going, Mr. Mada.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u555	If I may, ladies and gentlemen, this sitting, I would say, is of particular political interest in many respects. It is very important for us, for the forces of the modern radical left - and that is why, if you wish, I mentioned these problems - we have the great picture in mind. And the big picture is that we have to understand that we have difficult and painful paths, that we are making compromises that certainly have sides that do not represent our strategy and our pursuits. However, we must say clearly from this point of view that those who dream that they can through the power they have, in particular the power of the system - both domestic and international - either by incriminating, targeting or by amending, dismantling this project are being eroded. And I say this because we all belong to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group have been fully aware from the very beginning, since we decided not to give up, not to say 'I expel this glass from me', but to assume our responsibility. We are fully aware of what we had, we have and we will have difficulties, which touch and - if you like - our internal procedure. But, a problem of conscience in this hypocritical way that I have heard from attitudes, opinions, acts that are evolving today, I think we do not. And I want to say this decisively, because those who invest hypocritically in this will not really help - no matter how much they think - not even their political plans. And that is the political interest in today's debate. The political interest in today's debate is that on many aspects of Parliament either in a post-modern way or in a more traditional way or in a little 'other for elsewhere', a joint request has been heard. And the request was essentially "get it together and go, so that we can come back to this responsibility, which we have and adequacy, which we know and know, and how to negotiate them and in any case a government of national responsibility, national unity, technocrats" etc. And I am talking about these issues, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that the arguments which George Stathakis has developed in particular will be sufficient, and that will continue to be the case with regard to the specific issue that we are discussing and which focuses mainly on the issue of red housing loans. And I would like to stress a few points once again and end with that. First, the Katseli Act is not repealed. It is still true of those who have joined the law and those who will apply until the end of this year for the part of housing loans. That's the reality. And the rest, of course. It's not abolished. Secondly, in this particular area of housing loans there is indeed an amendment. I support it - and other colleagues have supported it - which has a classic clear sign. No levelling, not like what we have heard that 'you are also communists and you will also take our homes'. Because some of us are communists too, but homes are not going to get them. What to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u556	That's where they laugh!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u557	That's where they laugh! All right, all right. I said 'Some of us are communists'. You're judging it. You guys think that's all...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u558	It's not just us, it's them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u559	They want a monopoly and that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u560	Go ahead. What did you want to do with that now? Move!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u561	That is one point, Mr President. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u562	I'll leave you. I said 'go ahead' I didn't say it was over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u563	One point is that. The second point is that this specific change is, as I said, taking place in the area of housing, which has a sign and which says in practical terms that those who have an income of more than 3 000 euros before tax, can in this category not actually enter a protection procedure or with absolute protection...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u564	Respect a little Mr. Manda. The man's running out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u565	This category cannot enter the absolute protection regarding a particular piece that is 100% protected. Furthermore, it cannot enter the protection, to the limit of EUR 36 000. I shall conclude, Mr President. I would also like to say that the criterion of the debt threshold per borrower which was EUR 200,000 and effectively excluded three out of four borrowers no longer applies. This is also an important issue. I do not claim and I will never claim that we are doing everything perfectly or in everything we have answers. Let me close with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u566	Because five times you have said 'close', close the fifth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u567	I think the key point which I have kept and which concerns me is what Mr Venizelos said in his speech. I always watch him carefully. He said the bank would offer more protection to borrowers than the law. Let's hold this a little bit, and let's think about it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are taking a concrete and important step within the roadmap, which we have drawn up and on the crucial issue of recapitalisation. I imagine no part of this House wants to get in and into adventures. We are taking a very concrete step at last towards the definitive regulation of red loans. I think the rest of the business loans issues and other issues will have time to talk about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u568	Before giving the floor to Mr Alexiadis, I shall give the floor, in the parliamentary order, for two minutes to each one who wishes to ask Mr Stathakis, perhaps even to Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Brutsis for two minutes, Mr. Loverdos for two minutes and Mr. Carras for two minutes. We're starting with Mr. Brutsi. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the Government - and I am addressing the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Alexiadis - the amendment he tabled a moment ago on the question of wine, the reduction of the tax to 50% actually confirms one thing, that the government is treating itself with a cheap trade union tactic. I'm saying that and I'm explaining why. I want to ask the Minister. Minister, with the ease of withdrawing 50% of the tax, 53 million, why don't you withdraw the rest? Same convenience. Two. To what is this tax finally intended? Because you're basically confirming that it's not a tax imposed by the troika. It concerns a tax that you incorporate into the Government's idealism and tax perception. It reminds me of and refers to logic, Hodja. I'm sorry, Mr. Alexiadis. In logic, Hodja. You started with 'tax, tax, tax'. At the end of the process, remove half, so that everyone is happy. We're not happy, Mr. President. We call on the New Democracy to withdraw the tax because this tax is still harmful and will destroy Greek wine production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u570	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u571	To take Mr Brutsi's last sentence as my beginning. Mr President, I would like to present a communication on our legislative work for knowledge and compliance on the part of the European Trade and Wine Association. By the way, since Alexiadis will take the floor - I intended only to address Mr Stathakis - and will close the debate, to say this: in the Minutes, Mr Alexiadis, you mentioned this unacceptable tax, the special ending, we have a number of technical, substantial and very serious issues. One last thing, I would ask you very much in your speech to deal with it, is that - as others know - with regard to the wine industries - the craft industries, the producers - there are cases of degraded quality wine sold in the acidification industry. In these cases, what are you doing? Are you imposing the excise duty? You need to see it. And like you made references to other issues, do for her. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Mr. Stathakis, I wanted to ask you a series of questions as soon as I saw the technical improvements you submitted. Unfortunately, it's time. I can't make it. I would ask you, however, to see why you can prevent this: on the first page, on the intervention page, the wording, as now formed in the law, does not make any sense. In other words, the applicationer has huge problems. You say: 'The debt settlement plan will provide for' - for futures - 'that the debtor will pay' - for futures - 'the maximum rate of repayment and that he pays' - 'the amount so that his creditors will not be found, etc.'. So, while we're talking about a settlement plan, for a future, you're setting a condition that exists in most of the time. It is either future and this is all about the arrangement that is to be made or you're in trouble. Either put the "will" in front or it's in trouble. The person who will be asked to apply the provision will have a problem. If you can also - my predecessor - in intervention 8, which is a great deal of mortgage, the large part of the problem comes from a new wording from which there is no substantial change. We want a comment on this fundamental change. What is the point where your intervention is changing the prerogative? And finally - and I close with this - since you are communists, intervention 3 says: "The provision is made as follows: The debtor is a co-operating borrower under the Bank Ethics Code" - be careful - 'where it applies'. Until now, until you brought the setup, we meant...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u572	It's over there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u573	He's leaving? He's not gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u574	Mr. Loverdo, please get it over with. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u575	Well, if this doesn't go away, it's not just about co-operation in housing, but about all of the loans. If he's going to leave, leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u576	Mr. Carras has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u577	I would like to put my question here and ask you. The legislative improvements brought by the ministers earlier, in case 8 amending paragraph 1 of Article 14 of the draft law, refer to the following provisions: ‘The debtor may apply to the Greek State for partial coverage of the monthly payment of the draft debt settlement set out in the judgment. The debtor is obliged to pay the maximum amount of his repayment and in any case is liable to pay a minimum contribution. The Greek State’s contribution to the above restructuring plan shall not exceed three years and shall be paid to the creditors provided that the debtor remains consistent with the minimum contribution.’ What's my question? Is the reason for that, or will the tax authority then come with the Public Revenue Collection Code and say that it has been granted aid - because it is aid, Ministers, in that sense - and will charge it to the borrower, so will it have the consequences of the Public Revenue Code at due fees? We need to, it's absolutely necessary. There is no right for the legislator to give if he does not receive special protection for liberalisation. So this provision needs to be supplemented here, because it opens up an austerity of Haul in the future, even if the banks have been repaid, the bank debtors become public debtors and we have worse consequences. Stand at this point, please, and untie it! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u578	Before I give the floor to Mr Alexiadis, Mr Stathakis, would you like to reply to the two - three comments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u579	Mr President, I would also like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u580	But listen, Mr. Theochari. I opened a list and closed the list. It can't be every time I do this job.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u581	Mr President, the question for Mr Alexiadis is a technical one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u582	Well, so that I don't blame you have the floor for two minutes and we're done with the Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u583	I won't need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u584	Good. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u585	I have personally transferred it to the Deputy Minister. I wanted to ask him from Stepma, too. I am aware that a procedure had been initiated in which cars registered in a European Union country and coming to Greece and changing signs - it could be decade-old cars - were reclassified to Greece and considered new cars and therefore, they paid for many years as if they were new.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u586	It was solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u587	It was solved. I am aware that the same problem arises with the amendment on ends. If the Minister can heal it, as he has already healed for this category of vehicles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u588	Absolutely clear. Thank you. Mr. Stathakis, would you like to answer? How much time do you want? Do you get three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u589	One minute is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u590	Because in a minute you will not finish - you say the Haniots - I give you the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u591	I'm starting with the code where it's applied. I reply to Mr. Dendia. It replaces what existed before and remains the phrase as formulated here: ‘The debtor is a cooperating borrower under the Code of Conduct Banks, where applicable.’ It's over. It has not started to apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u592	And nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u593	Nothing else. There is no problem in this, because the code is applied. Mr. Dendias knows. The second issue. The point made by Mr Dendias is that the Bank of Greece is making directions and that if anything binding, there must be a ministerial decision. I take it seriously. We can't do this here. What new brings Article 8? Point (a) states that this property serves as a main residence, responds to Mr. Loverdos. Point (d), point (e) and the fact that the public contribution is only paid on condition that the debtor remains consistent with the minimum contribution. These are the three points. There's one question I need to see. I can't answer you now, it's too legal. If a secondary clarification is needed, I'd be happy to give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u594	I will now give Mr Alexiadis the floor. By the end of Mr Alexiadis, if, Mr Stathakis, these two things you have said now have to be written and distributed, you have to do so now, so that we can get to the vote before we get to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u595	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u596	No, that's good. Mr. Alexiadis, you have the floor for ten minutes. I'm not asking you. Ten minutes and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u597	Sure. I am likely to be shorter, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to give the latest legal improvements to some of the phrases that have had some problems. Please, to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u598	I followed Parliament's two days very carefully, I heard all the positions, and I was really concerned about many of these positions, whether these provisions were in the right direction, or whether changes had to be made. I'm not dogmatic. I am more a follower of revision than dogmatism in these issues. But when I hear those who have led the country forty years at this point screaming and shedding crocodile tears for people's homes, for incomes, for people with disabilities, for tax evasion, for smuggling, have they forgotten who is responsible for all these issues and who have led us to this point? Are they reluctant to criticise a government, which has not been closed for a year, for a policy that we are forced to do and have explained why we are doing so and are trying to substantiate all this criticism on us? Finally, gentlemen! In particular, these are the problems and you must give concrete answers. And let the populism of the adoption of every anti-government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u599	What's this? That's how you're gonna do... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u600	Mr. Kegeroglu, please! [[Noise from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR]] Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u601	It's an old story with Mr. Kegeroglu. I can't compete with him on this, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u602	Keep going. You're free to say what you want, but you're supposed to answer questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u603	I'll say specific things: First of all, on the issue of the legislative improvement we have tabled on the tax on each bottle of wine. I'm making it clear so there isn't anyone in there and there's still the misunderstanding. The original logic was 0.30 minutes of the euro in each bottle of wine. Now it's become 0,15 minutes of the euro in every 750ml of wine. If sold in another package of 750ml, multiply, divide and find what it is if it is aggravated. Secondly, it is not about wines that go abroad. It's not about exports. And stop crocodile tears for that! By decision of the Minister who comes out - and paragraph 2 says so - he will also clarify this issue: it is 0,15 per bottle consumed in Greece, which concerns Greek and imported wines. Traffic charge. The amendment tabled finally answers those who have been trying to show the whole storm, that the traffic charges will be the 'ENFIA' of SYRIZA. No, gentlemen! We disproved you. If you read the exact arrangement, you will see that the number of vehicles with reduced traffic charges is greater than they have a small increase. If you see, really, where we're reducing and where we're growing, it's what's really bothering you. It is the class mark in our policy, because you, of course, wanted to reduce traffic charges to expensive cars. We're not doing that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Allocation of rents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u604	Before you go to the rents, would you like to answer Mr. Theocharis's question about cars registered outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u605	Don't worry about Mr. Theocharis. If there's such a thing, we'll restore it. There is no one in the amendment, but if there is anything, I have noted it and we will restore it. As far as the sale of rents is concerned, we would have wasted time - and I do not want to do so - if I read you from the Minutes of this House what was heard here when we withdrawn the provision that we abolished the sale of rents to the public and you charged the government at that time. Now there are no people who have the courage to go out and say 'we do not vote on the provision'. They don't agree, but say they're in the right direction. They don't say anything. This is a silence, because their populism and their anti-government logic lead them to vote against even this very appropriate measure, with which we relieve citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u606	They didn't say a single word! Kich!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u607	Two are the main points of this measure: one is that we demonstrate what it means to negotiate. We could not bring in the provision at the time when we brought in the ban on renting, because there was a negotiation. Now we can bring it, with the agreement of the institutions, and it is something that relieves citizens, because we do not tax fictitious incomes. Case selection for review by decision of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue. Huge hypocrisy. Why? What are we doing? We have been taking a provision in place since 2013, enriching it and making it more important. And we are critical, because we give the GDR the opportunity to choose the cases on the basis of criteria - and this must be done - and not to any Alexiadis. I don't understand. Is that what you want? Should the Minister of Finance decide what assumptions will be dealt with? You did this to the Treasury. But it won't happen anymore. And with regard to this part - I explained it yesterday and you haven't understood it - this thing hides behind the public's logic of operation. Do we want public, independent and public, which will operate effectively or public, which will take care of our political friends, advisors, their donors and all those we have had so far? Finally, I will respond to the anxiety you have very often about the evidence Alexiadis does not give. Here I have all the evidence and I'll submit it to the Minutes. However, I will repeat a question to those Members who say so and say so again, but they do not answer a simple question of our own. Will you once answer where it was in 2010, in 2011, in 2012, the Lagard list? Because you're doing well and you're asking for the other one. Tell us about that. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Will you tell us at some point why you were engaging in the limitation of the Lagard list, which you knew was on 31-12-2015, and if we didn't open the matter as a government, would we go for limitation and some of my friends would have problems paying taxes that would be charged and paid? Will you respond to these issues? So, first of all, we say that if there is a proposal from Members to abolish tax confidentiality - because that is what you are asking for with your proposal - to bring the proposal in and talk about it. Bring in the proposal to abolish tax confidentiality, so that we can also provide information. So, with regard to the evidence you're asking for...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u608	Let's hear the evidence. (Noise - protests from the Wing of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u609	You asked for the evidence, and now that I'm saying it, you can't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u610	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u611	Mr. Constantinople, let's hear the evidence. After the tax confidentiality has not been lifted, let's hear the evidence now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u612	To adjust the hundreds of doses, then, I'll give the first element. Debts up to a million are 99.97%. Debts over one million are 0.03%. What amounts have been made? In the sums received, 80% is for less than a million and 20% is over a million. I'll file the evidence in the Minutes. Tax confidentiality doesn't allow me to give the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u613	They'll be filed in the Minutes. Take your studies and we'll be here next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u614	Secondly, to close and respond to the catastrophe about what SYRIZA is doing to the Ministry of Finance, how are tax revenue going, what about all these issues? [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 491a]] [[Let the page in. 493a]] [[Let the page in. 494a]] [[Let the page in. 496a]] You will study three specific tables: In the first table, where the tax revenue of October is from taxes and customs, not only do we have no collapse, but it is 714 million over October 2014, the same tax month in terms of liabilities in 2015. The second point is that public debt is due in the short term. We compare ten months, namely the tenths of 2013, 2014 and 2015. In the first ten months of 2013 to 2014, the due date increased by 2,6 billion. In the tenth of 2014 to 2015, do you know how much they increased? Minon 536 million! And while, due to the capital controls, we could not take forced collection measures, we still have a fall in the amount due. And here you have to answer because you've had an increase. The last item - and I give it to you - concerns VAT on the islands. Due to the checks we made on the islands in the summer we have an increase in the area of accommodation by 28% of the VAT received, and not to collect. I could say too much, but the President rightly told me to be - and I have to be - in my time. We hear a great deal of criticism about fuel smuggling, tobacco smuggling, tax evasion, illegal gambling, the Internet market, etc. I'm telling you, we don't do what you did. We plan and quickly all this will be brought to the D.A. and the Treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u615	Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, we are in full economic euphoria - as I understand it - moving forward to close today's sitting. In principle, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: 'Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement and other provisions'. Their vote will be taken separately. Almost all parties have applied for a roll-call vote. In principle and under Articles 1 to 18 of the draft law a request for a roll-call vote has been submitted by New Democracy, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u616	I will read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy in order to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Brutsis John. Here you go. Mr. Dendias Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Plackotakis John. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Mr. Congogiorgos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Stamatis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Kasapidis George. Here you go. Mr. Koukodimos Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr Metatakis Panagiotis (South). Here you go. Mr. Augias Eleftherios. Here you go. Mr. Skrekas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Yakoumatos Grassos. Here you go. Mr. Kefaliannis Ioannis. Here you go. Mr. Castaniotis Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Hatzidakis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Kalafatis Stavros. Here you go. Mr. Fortsakis Theodore. Here you go. Mrs. Bakoyannis Theodora. Here. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Tasoulas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Davakis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Gioyakas Vassiliou. Here you go. Mrs Martinou Georgia. Here. Mrs Papakostas - Ironopoulou Catherine. Here. Mr. Andrian John. Here you go. Mr Vagionas Georgios. Here you go. Mrs. Sofia Vulture. Here. Mr. Consolas Konstantinos. Here you go. Mrs. Kerameo Nike. Here. Mr. Karaoglu Theodore. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. In principle and on Articles 4, 13, 14 and 17 of the draft law, respectively, a request for a roll-call vote by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u617	I will read the names of the signatories' list of the request for a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, to determine whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Hajisavasavas Christos. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. In principle, therefore, as well as in Articles 4, 13 and 14 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by fifteen Members of the Communist Party of Greece, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u618	I shall read out the names from the list of signatories the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Ms. Canelle Gallus (Liana). Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. Finally, on Articles 5, 13 and 14 of the draft law, Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR have requested a roll-call vote, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u619	I shall read out the names of the signatories' list of applications for the roll-call vote of Members of the PASOK - DIMAR, in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for its submission. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Harula (Harah). Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitris. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jelephus Michael. Here you go. Mrs Christophilopoulou on Friday (Evia). Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to vote for a roll-call vote on the PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u620	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for the amendment I have tabled, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u621	Mr. President, excuse me. We have already entered the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u622	Mr President, I ask the floor on how to vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u623	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u624	I have tabled an amendment. Since the government did not incorporate it into the final article 14, as the nomination took place, I would ask for this vote to be taken on its own as an additional article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u625	But, if you'll excuse me, has the government accepted it? She hasn't been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u626	Let the government vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u627	If she hasn't been accepted, how are we gonna put her to the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u628	But to put it to the vote, because it is a timely amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u629	Wait a minute. It must first be accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u630	The proposed amendments shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u631	I shall look into it in the Rules of Procedure, because I may be wrong, Mr President. If that's the case, it's gonna be like this. I'll see if that's the case, because I don't see the government accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to submit the roll-call vote by all the parties who have made their request. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u632	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. We shall compile the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u633	So the House unanimously agreed. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 to 18 of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the budgetary objectives and structural reforms agreement and other provisions’. Receiving the bill on principle and the articles say “WHEN”. Those who fail to accept the bill on principle and the articles say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis from New Democracy are on the list. I would also like to inform you that faxes - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70 A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, have come to the Bureau in which they give their vote at first and in the articles of the bill. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Before we begin reading the list, I would like to express our condolences to our colleague, Mr Varvitsiotis, for the death of his mother a few hours ago. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u634	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, twenty-five students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Malion Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u635	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 503 to 506]] [[Let the pages in. 508 to 512]] [[CONCERNING THE DURATION OF CONSUMPTION]] The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] The letters, which have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u636	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, and Mr von der Vring, have taken part in this debate. Georgios Vlachos, Vassilios Economou, Athanasios Kavadas, Konstantinos Katsafados and Athanasios Bouras will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they know by letter that if they were present they would vote "OT". These letters, which express the intention of voting, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but shall not be counted against the counting of votes and shall be as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u637	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Independent Greeks by letter to the President of Parliament, Nicholas Voutsi, declares that MP Nikolaopoulos of John from today 19 November 2015, does not belong to the Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks - National Patriotic Democratic Alliance. Also, the President of the Radical Left Coalition in his letter to the President of Parliament, Nikolaos Voutsi, states that MP 2 Athens Stathis Panagoulis from today, November 19, 2015, is not part of the parliamentary group of the Radical Left coalition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u638	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to address the President, Mr Venizelos. Mr President, I would ask you to make it easier for me, because I do not want you to be sad at me. In the Rules of Procedure, you know, there is nothing specific about the request you made. You also know from parliamentary practice - and I do not remember it, I am quite old - that an amendment by a Member who has not been accepted by the Minister is not put to the vote. Personally, I cannot speak because I am currently chairing, but I very much like your opinion. Perhaps, until the Rules of Procedure change, this issue will be discussed at the Conference of Presidents and if the Conference of Presidents decides otherwise, then it will be clear. But for the evening on my own initiative to introduce an amendment which has not been accepted by the Minister responsible, I cannot do so. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u639	Look, the fate of the amendment on the substance depends on the majority. As you have rightly said, however, there is a question of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. The legislative initiative of Members does not depend on the will of the government, otherwise the provision of Rule 26 itself, which confers legislative powers on the House, firstly, would not make sense. Therefore, in the short term, the amendments which do not have a burden on the state budget and do not fall within the prohibitions on budgetary matters are discussed and put to the vote, unless this vote is in vain, without the consortium of the parliamentary majority. It's been done many times before. Amendments have been tabled and have been put to the vote on their own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u640	I often don't remember it, but in the broad sense and Article 74 of the Constitution may justify your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u641	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u642	But please accept to discuss this at the first Conference of Presidents and make a decision. In fact, as you have said, if the majority do not want an amendment tabled by a Member, it does not pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u643	Yes, but it is very important to agree, even for the future. I don't want to create...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u644	Yes, I agree, for the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u645	The MPs have the right to take a legislative initiative, the opposition parties on a major basis. This cannot be curtailed by the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u646	Okay. Do you not agree to discuss this at the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u647	I do not want to create procedural problems for no reason. I would be happier if the government would incorporate this clause into the new loan arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u648	Thank you, Mr President. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment until the result of the roll-call vote has been obtained. It is the amendment with a general number 54 and a special 16, as amended by the Minister, which will be incorporated into the bill as Article 19. Obviously, if I am not mistaken, it is the amendment to remove VAT on private education. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr Polakis, we are doing a job right now, and Mr Theocharis should be able to reply on behalf of his party. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 54 and a special 16, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u649	The amendment under number 54 and a special 16 were therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously, and is part of the bill as Article 19. The nominated article will be voted on as soon as the counting of votes is completed and the result of the roll-call vote is announced. One more announcement. MEP Mr Ioannis Maniatis seeks permission from a short-day absence from 25-11-15 to 26-11-15 for a transition abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u650	The House approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u651	I am told that both colleagues have counted the votes in a record time! I believe that unanimously - because they are the parliamentary representatives of all the parties in the Chamber - we must do something to these people. So, in Anastasia and Yannis, I will at least give them two minutes more in their speaking time, because we have changed their lights! [[Applause]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 525b]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 290 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'NO', they voted 137 MPs. 'PARON' no Member voted. The Finance Ministry bill, entitled ‘Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the Financial and Structural Reform Agreement and other provisions’, was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. Article 1 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 1, namely 'NAH', they voted 181 Members. Pursuant to Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 109 Members voted. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 2 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 2, i.e. 'NAI', 153 Members voted. Pursuant to Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure, 137 Members voted against. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 3 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 3, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 3, i.e. 'NO', 137 Members voted. Article 3 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 4 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 4, i.e. 'NAI', 153 Members voted. Under Rule 4, i.e. 'Notice', 137 Members voted. Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 5 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 5, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 5, i.e. 'NO', they voted 137 Members. Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 6 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 6, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 6, i.e. 'NOV', 137 Members voted. Article 6 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 7 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 7, i.e. 'NA', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 7, i.e. 'NO', 137 Members voted. Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 8 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 8, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 8, i.e. 'NOV', 137 Members voted. Article 8 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 9 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 9, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 9, i.e. 'NO', 137 Members voted. Article 9 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 10 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 10, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 10, i.e. 'NO', 137 Members voted. Article 10 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 11 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 11, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 164 Members. Against Rule 11, namely 'Notice', they voted 126 Members. Article 11 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 12 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 12, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 12, i.e. 'NO', they voted 137 Members. Article 12 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 13 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 13, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 13, i.e. 'NO', 137 Members voted. Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 14 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 14, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 14, i.e. 'NO', 137 Members voted. Article 14 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 15 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 15, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 15, i.e. 'Notice', 137 Members voted. Article 15 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 16 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 16, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 164 Members. Against Rule 16, i.e. 'Notice', 126 Members voted. Article 16 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 17 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 17, i.e. 'NAH', 153 Members voted. Against Rule 17, i.e. 'Notice', 137 Members voted. Article 17 was therefore accepted by a majority. Article 18 of the draft law: In favour of Rule 18, i.e. 'NAH', 170 Members voted. Against Rule 18, 'Notice', 120 Members voted. Article 18 was therefore accepted by a majority, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u652	We have already voted for the amendment by a general number 54 and a special 16 unanimity, which was incorporated into the bill as Article 19. We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u653	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u654	Therefore, a majority vote was adopted in the Court of First Instance. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Urgent arrangements for the implementation of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u655	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u656	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u657	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Emergency arrangements for the implementation of the Agreement on Financial Objectives and Structural Reforms and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, Articles and total, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u658	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u659	The House granted the authorization requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-19-S1-commons.u660	With the consent of the House at 20.55' the sitting is closed for Friday, November 20, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
