ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 5-12-2015, the minutes of the LG's, LG's, LG's, LG's, LG's, LG's and M' meetings of Tuesday, 1 December 2015 (morning and afternoon), Wednesday 2 December 2015, Thursday 3 December 2015, Friday 4 December 2015 and Saturday 5 December 2015, including the discussion and vote of the State budget for the financial year 2016]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of petitions has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 235/1-12-2015 of the first cycle of the Samos MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Health, on the issues of the operation of health centres and decentralised health care units of Samos Prefecture. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u4	I would like to thank you, Minister, for coming to answer the timely question. Also, if I relate it to the answer you gave me to the question about the multi-valent Pharmaceuticals of the Fortress, at least it shows a parliamentary diligence. For a few months now, the Centre for Health of Charlotte, as well as the Centre for Health of Evangelos, has been facing very great administrative problems, because, in my opinion, they are related to an overarching principle, the 2nd ICU, which is huge, vast, and seems to have a problem with controlling the areas with which it is responsible. There are problems with the supply, material or fuel of ambulances, problems with the overtime of personnel, medical, administrative and other nursing staff, problems with the payments of newspapers, although the Ministry has credited the corresponding amounts to the ICM accounts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] This overall turbulence is added to the existing problems by the extinction of the social structures in Greece. So the question I ask you is. How can this situation be improved by legislative means?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u5	The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u6	My dear colleague, the situation that you describe, as far as your region is concerned, and in the field of primary care, I think it is consistent with the general picture of the downgrading of services throughout the country. Just this year, the truth is that, in terms of parliamentary control, we have also focused more on trying to solve the problems of hospitals, which were very sharp and possibly not given the special weight that had to be given to primary care. We want next year to be a year in which there will be a serious intervention in the field of primary health care and legislation. I believe that we will be able in the first quarter of 2016 to present a legislative initiative for the part of the reorganisation of primary health care. I believe that we will be ready in December to give a general outline of how we want things to go, what are the broad guidelines of the changes that need to be made and, above all, how there will be a marked improvement in the current functioning of primary care structures, whether it be the province, that is, rural-type health centres or the urban centres, that is to say, the current structures of the EDN. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Indeed, there are very serious administrative problems, which are due to the fact that from 1-1-2015, the country's Ministry of Health has been invited to support administrative health centres devastated throughout the country and, in particular, the 2nd RC, which we know has hundreds of structures, covers practically the whole Aegean, from Lemnos to Kastelorizo, the Cyclades, and of course very large hospitals in Piraeus. I think that as far as this RSF is concerned, as does the 6th RSF covering around all western Greece, we need very quickly to go to spatial reconstruction - which is our intention - so that there is a better political control of the operation of the structures and that problems of this type are solved that are clearly due to administrative inadequacy with the current staffing of both the RSF and the hospitals. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Indeed, while money has been provided by the Ministry, it is tragic that there are still unpaid workers, either in hospitals or in health centres, even in the second quarter. We believe that this really is putting all the credibility of the administrative system in the ERC to the test today, and we must very quickly move on to changes that improve this situation. These days are also credited to hospital accounts for the last quarter of 2015, in the hope that we will be able to pay before holidays in October and November for doctors' on-calls and overtime for other personnel. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. At a time when there are serious staffing problems, in hospitals and in primary care, we consider that the main issues of everyday life, the supply of hospitals, the adequacy of materials, fuels and, anyway, the elementary administrative function of hospitals must be fully guaranteed. With regard to the image of the structures of primary care on your island, I will say more in my denology. However, the essence is that I think that primary care needs a very important support in our country. It is a very critical area that is a filter and an increased entry to hospitals at this time, that is, at a time when public structures have been dismantled and the world has not, as has been said, been able to address the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Sevastakis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u8	Minister, I would like to point out to you the following: the expenditure documents sent since June have now been received on 2 December. And this, like the previous ones I mentioned, such as the fact that workers in health centres have been unpaid since the beginning of the year - they have not been paid for even in the first quarter and so far only doctors' newspapers have been paid for the first quarter - they show that there is a problem of communication. Even though there is a political mood from the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there seems to be a structural problem of communication of structures with the supervising and overcoming authority. Secondly, it is luxurious to have an administrative flaw that becomes a political problem. To see, in other words, as a flaw in the will of a government, while it is a purely administrative problem, structure and form. I think that apart from the fact that the good of health does not spread - and it is very important that in the islands of isolation and geomorphological difficulty primary health structures are valuable filters - especially in this treaty that exists a social fragility, it is very important that these political wastes do not exist, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u9	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u10	I'll totally agree. We really think that it is a very serious political problem today, when the political will is known and stated to give priority to public care in our homeland at this time and when efforts are being made - with the limited resources that we can make available at this time - to strengthen public structures, to have such a form - let us say, inadequacy of administration, which the Ministry also exposes to the state towards workers working under adverse conditions, and which we as a state should be elementary in our obligations towards them, but I think also insults the dignity of citizens, too many times, because they themselves are the subject - let us say - of this suffering and malfunction. Apart from reform in primary care, there is also a reform in the administration of the system. We will do it in a well-designed way, well-studyed way, and we will see the entire planning of the Ministrys, we will do the remedial moves wherever needed, in order to have a better control, a better performance. The LAGs must upgrade their political role and not just be an intermediate bureaucracy between the supervised units and the Ministry, and we have instructed the LAGs at this time - because we are also at a stage of administrative change - to strengthen their presence, to intervene in time in the problems, not to let such types of malfunctions arise. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as human resources are concerned, although you have not referred to this, I must mention that in the last proclamation of permanent staff, the well-known notice 5K of 2015 provided for two positions for the Centre for Health of Carlovay, nurses and manufacturers, and two positions for the Centre for Health of Evanilos and two other positions for doctors and other staff have been requested, which will be included in the notice of two thousand four hundred forty that we believe will be able at the beginning of 2016 to move forward. The great problem for these areas, my dear colleague, you know that, unfortunately, there are no strong incentives to attract, especially for medical resources. We are in an attempt to seek such incentives. In the forthcoming bill to be brought by the government, there will be such interventions to strengthen the incentives of attraction. Although we have also worked with the regions so that there can be special incentives for subsidiary and rural doctors covering these areas, this does not always work, beyond what the designation of an area as barren, such as Samos is. I think we should make a very great effort as a country to convince our young doctors, our young scientists that they can in this place have a decent professional perspective and stay in their country to provide valuable services to the people who need them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Xanthi. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia on regulating issues relating to entry visas for youth mobility (Work and Holiday Visa). I would also like to say that a number of topical and urgent questions will not be answered because of the impediment of the relevant ministers. Also, a question will not be answered because it is subject to the wrong Ministry. In particular, the fifth question under No 226/27-11-2015 the first question of the Achaias MP Mr.Jasona Foila to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the sustainability of the Medical and Pedagogical Centre of Achaias "Merimna" in Patras will not be discussed due to lack of competence and deleted. Nor will nine questions be debated as a result of an impediment by the relevant ministers. Of course, the Committee of the Conference of Presidents has decided that the ministers should inform the President of Parliament of their position so that people do not hear from television that the ministers are not responding. The ministers, of course, may have obstructions, but these must be notified to the President of Parliament. The questions which will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the competent ministers and which are deleted are as follows: The sixth under number 232/30-11-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the delay in granting the oil allowance. The seventh under number 225/26-11-2015 topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary 2nd Pireaus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on measures for the immediate coverage of the gaps in Primary and Secondary Education in the Municipality of Saronicos. The first, with number 236/1-12-2015, topical question of the second Piraya Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irini Kasimatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, concerning the exception of the Port of Perama - Salamis from the concession of the Greek State to the PPA. The second under No 229/27-11-2015 topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Publicskakis, Minister of Health, about dealing with problems in the operation of the Dumotio Hospital. The fourth question under number 238/1-12-2015 of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the reintegration of all employees of the Recycling plant in Heraklion Crete from the WAST SOLUTIONS company. The fifth under number 227/27-11-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the number of donors and transplants carried out for 2015 in our country. The sixth under number 233/30-11-2015 topical question by the Deputy of Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance, regarding the imposition of a luxury tax for the ICU. automobiles. The first, with number 456/30/22-10-2015, question and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the public debate between the Government and the Secretary-General of Public Revenue. The second question, under number 506/23-10-2015, by MP B' Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the problems of workers in the region of Central Macedonia under liquidation. Following the announcement of the timely questions that will not be discussed, we proceed to the fourth with number 237/1-12-2015, a top-stage question for the Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the decision of the administration of OKANA to stop the operation of methadone units during the weekend. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know I imagine the JRC's position on substitution programmes. We believe that the basic method of treatment and rehab should be dry treatment programmes and substitution programmes for specific population groups, where dependency is combined with disease, and of course should be high standards. Today we do not just have this regime, which is high standard substitution units, but instead, a few days ago, the methadone delivery unit at the "Agia Olga" Hospital was closed for the weekends, and it seems that it is also being discussed, for at least two hospitals it is being melted, that it is planned to shut down on weekends for two more units. This development is extremely serious, it is extremely dangerous, because it is combined with the administration of 'take home' doses - these doses that someone takes at home - to patients without fulfilling the necessary conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, according to the framework of operation of the OECD itself, those conditions are specific in order for someone who monitors the program to take a ‘take home’ dose. If this is not the case, if the conditions are not met, there are the following risks: overdose, administration to children and other people without tolerance to opioids, sale at home and abroad, i.e. illegal activity and relapse. These are the ones that mention the functional framework of the OKANA. This is why it is stated elsewhere that ‘take home’ cannot be used in patients using illegal substances or abuse of prescription substances. Under the influence of these substances, patients are unable to store the doses of "take home" or use them properly, while suspected dose exchanges with other drugs or dose sales are being raised. Methadone units are therefore necessary to remain open for daily administration throughout the week. It is therefore clear that this decision clearly violates the operating framework set by the OECD itself in relation to the conditions for granting ‘take home’ doses, in addition to the other negative side effects that may exist, even for those who may take ‘take home’ doses. You understand, if you close a unit and you have to cross the whole of Athens to take part in the program, what difficulties there are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And that is the tip of the iceberg, it is the result of an ongoing policy of all these years - I am ending, Mr President - of underfinancing, downgrading and depreciation of the OECD. There are other problems raised in the question, such as, for example, that the necessary virological tests are not carried out, the necessary urinary tracts, the necessary vaccinations, and we are essentially leading to a regime where we simply have some substitution programmes without any specifications, with what this means. That is why the Minister and the government ask: What measures will it take to ensure that there is smooth operation of methadone delivery units on weekends in all the units provided for? Also, what measures will it take with regard to funding, staff, infrastructure, so that the OECD operates in accordance with international safety standards? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u13	We too, Mr. Gioka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u14	My dear colleague, I am really glad that you are asking this question, precisely in view of the position of your party on substitution programmes, and I say this frankly. Drug dependence is a complex social problem and multi-productive, and we believe that the state must deal with it holisticly and ensure that dependent people are able, pluralist, to have decent and reliable services, depending on the needs of individuals, whether this is about reducing the damage to substitution, treatment, dismantling or reintegration. I think that in this chain OKANA is a very useful link that offers very important services to thousands of people, our fellow people involved with the use of substances, and which thus have a very important intervention to reduce harm and maintenance of their health. The problem you are referring to relates to a small number of treatment units - in units, that is, the substitutability of the OKANA - set up at the "Agia Olga" Hospital, the 'Sismanoglio' and the Varotis Camp in Woudi. There are around eight hundred and more people being monitored, who are substitutable with methadone and a 10% of them - around eighty-eight-five people - has been judged by the scientific team, which monitors them that they cannot enter a "take home" program and be granted at home. It should be on daily dosing, therefore on weekends. However, since this percentage is very small in all the healing, it was considered by the administration of OKANA to be a more sensible solution to some of these units at the weekend, focusing on the substitution healing unit of the Salvation Hospital. Basically, these people, that is, will not stay at all uncovered, will simply move to "Save" for weekends to get their dose, just like the rest of them treated in "Save". Today, the ability of all units and weekends to operate for a small number of patients is unfortunately finite. In the context of a fundamental rationalisation of the operation and reduction of human resources costs for weekends at least and holidays, this decision was taken. So these people will continue to heal properly, without a problem. They may need to move a little further than the usual methadone reception site. I think that what we need to see is how we will really be able to strengthen with resources and with the resources of the OECD in the next period. Indeed, this year's budget was too deficit. With the funding provided for by the OECD - which was EUR 21 million - it covers its totally inappropriate costs, namely the payroll of human resources, scientific staff, consumables and medicines used. We will try, within the 2016 budget, to make it even a marginal increase in this budget, so that we can enable it to proceed with a very serious plan, which has done and concerns two direct access units, which will be in the Attica basin, which will enable users today on the road and which have not yet decided, if they want to enter a substitution programme, to have access to the medicine, to leave the road and thus to lasting risk of their health - thus also reducing the potential effects on public health - and to have an incentive - to slowly join a substitution programme. This has a sense of reducing the damage, it is 'low road' programmes, as we say, which I think should be supported and very important, in order to eliminate the list that is still on the table today, to remain at around two thousand five hundred people. What is important is that OKANA at the same time wants to develop and upgrade its current structures, strengthening their psychosocial intervention and the overall support of the healed, with the aim of gradually rehabilitating them and their social reintegration. That is what I consider to be a very ambitious way of doing this, and it can be associated with the first intervention I told you before. We have approved in October fifty-two posts by OKANA for recruitment of nurses, doctors, psychologists and social workers operating in the form of a service card for about one year, covering very immediate needs. At the same time, in the second notice we will make of permanent staff, early 2016 we have anticipated twenty-five posts of corresponding indefinite specialties that will be able to strengthen the organisation at a time when, perhaps because of the crisis, the demand for services has increased.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u16	Minister, the problem is not just that it closed a unit in Agia Olga and that they will be covered by somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u17	It didn't close. We're talking about weekends.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u18	Yeah, what you're talking about on weekends. Which is not right, and it's not that simple. Because there should be facilities accessible to the people who are following the program and not be obliged to cross the whole of Athens in order to go where it should go, given the financial difficulties that you know very well that there are in these people. And the 1,20 euro ticket to pay someone, who is in such a situation, is very much, apart from the fact that there is a problem for those who might get a "take home" dose. And for them, there's a problem with closure. There are examples of this. When someone who's a worker, you force him to move, there's a problem. You discourage him from continuing the program. But it's not just what I'm saying it's very serious. There's something else here. There is what has also been denounced by the Scientific Committee of the Workers' Association by letter to the Governing Council of the OKANA, that doses of "take home" are given to people who do not fulfil the conditions. It is therefore not just the closure that is serious. But that's not all. It is the combination of the weekend stop by donating doses to people who do not qualify, with all the risks that this entails, plus all the rest: that for nine months there have been no urinary tests, that for eighteen months there have been no virological checks. Because you also said about the position of our party at first, we, you know very well that from the outset we had opposed the logic of substitution as a general application therapeutic method. And we said that in the front line should be dry treatment programmes - these should be strengthened, this should be the main treatment line - and that substitution programmes should only be addressed to comparable population groups, where disease dependency is combined, and they should be high standards. Is this high standard when there are no urinary uresis, no reagents and no virological tests? Is this a high standard? It is the maintenance of a situation and we are basically leading to a regime - to say fat - where the state will simply share a dose. That is where we lead without any other care for the rest. And we won't stay in the state alone. The street of private prescribing opens. Someone will say: Since the state simply shares a dose, why not a private doctor, as is the case with other patients? That's where we lead this policy. I am not saying that it is yours, but it is your own time-consuming policy, where dry healing programs are downgraded and underfunded, the OkAN operates as it works, and a drug addict could be cured. A few days ago, seventy-six graduated, Mr. President, from the programs of the KETHEA in the last six months only, apart from "18ANO", they were separated from Thessaloniki, etc. We say that drug addiction is inherent in this exploitation system, but the drug addict, as an isolated case, can be cured, provided there are a number of conditions that do not exist. And here, not only do they exist, but they are also strengthened by this policy implemented by your own government. So that is what we want, Mr Minister, answers. First, to open, to operate all units, not to have the other unit moved. Second, controls, urinary tracts. Keep an eye on it. Thirdly, support for overall policy on prevention and reintegration.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u20	Let me say this. Firstly, we do not question the scientific standards currently set by both the OECD administration and the scientific staff that the Agency has. We, my dear colleague, in the administration of OKANA, have consciously chosen and placed in the position of President and Vice-President of the OKANA, Vangelis Kafetzopoulos, as president, who is a university professor and the Municipality of Fotopoulou, a psychiatrist and head of the OkANA scientific team. We have chosen them, precisely to be people who know the problems, to be able to cooperate with the human and scientific potential and, above all, to plan a perspective of upgrading the organisation, overcoming its close therapeutic role and extending its scope to the preventive part and to the part of the psychosocial support and rehabilitation. We believe that the suggestion that has been made has taken account of these parameters, which you are saying. We believe that this is a safe option, which is being made at this stage which is difficult, subordinated to the organisation and with very serious financing problems, which have caused similar side effects, such as those you are saying, with the delay in virological control, which, from what the administration informs me, has been slowly restored to non-stabilization of urine and control samples during treatment. We will try, with an increased funding next year to solve them fully, so that the standard of operation is indeed very high. OKANA I think he's unfair to the effort made by his human resources, he's unfair to an image that he's an organization he's only doing is administering a substitution dose and that doesn't have a real care for our addicted user, our addicted fellow citizen. The image I have personally from corresponding structures I have visited is that very high standards are being held. If there are problems, side effects and shadows in this operation in some cases, it is important to identify and intervene in time with the administration to resolve them. Now, as far as the general issue is concerned, I think that internationally the scientific debate and the confrontation between land and restoration programmes are concerned. The modern scientific approach is that what the state must ensure is compatible with the needs of each man. And not all people are the same. Not all people can respond to the demands of all programs. It's an excellent job for the C.E.L.D. and its structures. Similarly, very important is the work of “18NO” where there are problems of psychiatric morbidity, as well as the units of Thessaloniki. I think what I have to say is what I told you before: Pluralist treatment and individualized treatment that meets the needs of each user. That's exactly what we're going to do. We are interested in having a functional interconnection of all the structures and institutions in the country today, making the best possible use of the fewer human resources and the limited resources available, so that we can first eliminate the phenomenon of the list, which I think is embarrassing for a modern society, that is to say, people who are asking to get into a treatment programme and because of difficulties that do not happen, and at the same time improve the care and physical and mental health of these people. As far as the part of privatisation is concerned, I would like to be absolutely unequivocal: that is not possible. Substitution will only be prescribed by public structures. What we are talking about at this time is probably a part of the patients who are stable, they are integrated, they are in a long-term phase of total decompensation from the substances and they are systematically monitored and can take their medicines, without necessarily being present in the structures of the OKANA, if they can prescribe their medicines in primary care structures, where the human potential involved in this process will be subjected to specific education, information and information about this process. We are discussing this in the context of the reorganisation of primary care and in order to avoid stigmatisation, if necessary, of those people who have to come today and get their treatment in these structures. Therefore, more social sensitivity, decent care for people is needed, and I think that is the right thing to do, and that is what is necessary at this stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Minister and Mr Gioka. But for historical reasons I must say that I am pleased with this debate that is now taking place, because in '95, which basically took place by OkANA, I was at the Ministry of Health and insisted that methadone should be introduced as a cure. The whole House - the Opposition - expressed its fear that it will not be a substitution method, but it will be a way to increase the cases of drug addicts. I am therefore pleased that the whole House today not only welcomes methadone as a method of treatment, but asks - let us say it - as far as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u22	But it's not a cure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u23	But it's a way out of the deadlock. The story, of course, must be known to us in order to know where we are going. When there is unanimity on such matters, such as health and education, I think that it is the case for the Greek Parliament, for every parliament, in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u24	Reduction of damage gives the right to treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u25	Minister, how many are cured by OKANA? Get us a number. How many are healing?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u26	How many people are on programs, you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u27	How many are healing? The methadone, as the President has said, has historically been introduced, but to end up in therapy. Isn't that right, Mr. President? How many people are healing right now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u28	The programs are eight and a half thousand people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u29	How many are healing? It's not a matter of keeping them. The history mentioned by the President was that he was introduced to end up in therapy. How many are healing? Not even the 3% that it used to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u30	The big problem is that they are people usually socially marginalized, who have no support for family and social problems, and there is always the danger of relapsing, even after the successful execution of a programme. This concerns all the programmes, my dear colleague, even the dry ones, as you said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u31	Differently in one and different in the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u32	Obviously. In any case, I say that this debate has largely ended scientifically...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u33	Minister, I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u34	It's not over for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u35	...and I think what it takes is social sensitivity to the whole world.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to you a request from four Members of Parliament to the House and the President: "Mr President, please, as the Greek Parliament permits, in order to visit Germany from 13 to 17 December, guests of the Hanns Seidel Foundation and of the Bavarian Christian Social Union. The purpose of the visit is to strengthen the Greek-German dialogue at parliamentary level, through meetings and contacts with MPs and members of the local government of Bavaria, as well as Members of the Christian Social Union of the Federal Parliament. The costs of travel and subsistence will be covered in private.’ They are signed by the MPs and so on. Maria Antoniou, Kellas Christos, Kefaloyannis Giannis, Koumoutsas Georgios. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u37	The House approved the requested permission. We move to the second question number 228/27-11-2015 of the first cycle of the MP Dramas Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks on development planning for Drama Law. The State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will answer Mr Sguridis. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in May, when we were presented with the relevant question to your predecessor and the minister responsible for the development of the projects both of the vertical axis of Drama - Amphipolis and of the upgrading of the existing rail network, how was the new construction of two-way lines planned and, in particular, the strengthening of the Drama - Ormenio rail network? Unfortunately, not only have I received no answer, but I regret to say that the whole of these works have been frozen, unknown why. The previous government had given as absolute priority the implementation of these projects and actions, giving way to the isolated Drama. Minister, because you come from this region, you know that Dramas Prefecture is the only isolated from the Egnatia Road, the only prefecture of northern Greece, which unfortunately is not connected to the vertical axis. I will pass on to you the agony of the Draminas, and I would ask you, Minister, to tell us here today, that we have an answer to this development plan for the Drama Prefecture, as well as whether the projects approved and incorporated into the national planning and if you can tell us about the fate of these projects and whether these projects will eventually be implemented, in particular with regard to the vertical axis of Drama - Amphipolis. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Please, Mr Sguridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to assure you, Mr Kyriazidis, but also through this answer and the inhabitants of the extreme Drama, that Drama will not be left out of the national development planning. Unfortunately, so far, this national development planning - and it is not the government's responsibility for ten months, but it is a responsibility much more government - has not been. Within this national development planning, a large part is the national strategic planning for transport and logistics. Therefore, many axes, which have to do with the rail and road network or combined transport, have been selected at once. That is why there are also involvements, either because there were strong factors in some areas and in others there were neither differences between regions. And we have reached a point so that many things can be delayed for that reason. Already, the intentions of this government are to set up an enlarged, interministerial committee from executives, universities and advisers, international but also European prestiges, such as the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, so that there can be this design that can finally build those networks and those projects through which 315 billion euros can be financed and co-financed and private investments in the Juncker package. For the Drama-Amphipolis axis, I will report the developments. This axis is divided into three sections. The first section is the bypass Dramas - Mavroleakis. The study is being prepared by the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace ROP. It's nine kilometers long and seventy meters wide. The Egnatia Street is studying the unequal node that will pass the already existing suburb of Drama and also the side roads that are needed to complete this part. The second part of the vertical axis Drama - Amphipolis is the part of Mavroulouki - Paleokome. It's thirty kilometers long. The study has been commissioned by the Ministry of Infrastructure and the width of the road is 22.25 and not seventeen. He's almost quadrant, he's kind of like Egnatia. The study is at a final stage. There is a lack of labelling, electromechanical engineering and some technical projects. In the first study I mentioned in the first part, there is also a booklet theme. The third part of this vertical axis, Paleokoli - Amphipolis, is ten kilometres long, passes next to the archaeological site of Amphipolis. As a result it is the width of this road to be just 11 meters. And we're thinking of moving it eastward to the suburbs of the Pangaios, so that it can get the width it needs, that is, the twenty-five meters, so that there can be a continuity. The completion of this project is of the order of EUR 150 million. And because it is not part of the trans-European networks, this project will be completed with national resources. The study of the second part was adopted - listen to understand the depth of time that some projects need, or if you want the bureaucracy that exists - in November 2007. Awarded the twelfth month in December 2008. The contract was signed in the third month of 2009, i.e. March 2009, and this study will be completed in July 2016. I now come to the part that has to do with the supervision of EGNATIA. The "Egnatia" has taken over the axis E61, which is Kavala - Drama - Serres - border, and this part is considered to be moving towards Drama, so that Drama will also be able to acquire the Egnatia. So a small part of the vertical axis Drama - Amphipolis will be financed by the trans-European networks. The part from Kavala to Drama has also been studied - and the study has been completed - the bypass of Drama for E61 and the bypass of Serres. There are three million missing, which we will take from Connecting Europe Facility, so that the piece that has to do from the bypass of Drama to the bypass of Serres can be studied. I therefore believe that these projects are moving in this direction, even slowly, because we believe that Drama should definitely have this connection. I'll talk about the railroad in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Kyriazidis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u42	Minister, you too see this many-year delay, and of course referral to the formation of an interministerial committee leads me to concern. As well as the reference to E61, because for him there is no study to date. We will therefore be awaiting any study. While you were right to say that there are some mature studies for the great - I would say - 30 km of Mavroulouki - Paleokome, which has already been given 2 million, I think there should be a specific timetable here. And the other two pieces that you mentioned have been taken over by EGNATIA S.A... However, as you are well aware - you will have been informed - there has been no study, no design or competition to date in order to fill this gap. So your intervention and my intervention have something to do with this. In other words, to enable EGNATIA S.A. to carry out its own work. As regards the Drama-Kavala axis, as you said, we would also like a timetable for this. You mentioned the big part that any study in March 2016 is being completed. However, there are differentiations in different sections, such as these unfortunately - and you rightly stressed this - to date they have gone ahead. So we need a power pool. And I would say that the call of Drama's society is finally this project to get a certain timetable and not to move. I would also ask for the answer on the rail network. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u44	I want to make it clear that this Interministerial Committee on the Great Plan has nothing to do with these projects. These works have taken their way and will proceed. What I would like to point out in your speech, Mr. Kyriazides, is that in March 2016 the mature study of the thirty-kilometre, from Mavroukou - Paleokome, will be completed. In 2016. From there on, for the auctioning of the whole project, after the studies of the first piece are matured and the third part is studied that has to leave the archaeological site, you understand that we have time ahead of us. The government has decided on projects which have matured as quickly as possible, because we believe through public investment and through European programmes and by opening up entrepreneurship to cover other issues. However, I come to the subject of the rail network. Co-financing studies have been proposed for Thessaloniki - Drymona - Drama - Alexandroupolis - Ormeni and we have asked for these studies to implement the electromotion at the track Strymona - Drama - Alexandroupolis and at Alexandroupolis - Ormeni. We believe that the piece Alexandroupolis - Ormene will be able in 2016 to proceed. The other part - to be honest with the Chamber and the Members - we believe in 2017. But the part of the Egnatia railroad, which concerns you, has begun. And it has to do with the study by Archbishops - Karvali - Amphipolis - Thessaloniki. This piece is a part of the Egnatia railroad and will be high speeds, like the entire Egnatia railroad. This is estimated to start at the end of 2019 and will also be a conventional line that will connect this part of Amphipolis - New Zichni that will reduce the time to leave the loads from Thessaloniki to Drama, as will the route be reduced by sixty kilometers. As you know, the railroad stayed in Greece very far behind, but the railroad at the moment is, if you want, the lever of the country's development along with logistics, i.e. the freight centres, and in this direction we will move. I don't want to take any more time. However, I am pleased that this question has given rise to the development of a broader plan for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the third with number 230/27-11-2015 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on delays in the performance of the special wind farm production charge to the beneficiaries of the mountainous communities of Argolida. The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Skourletis. Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u46	Minister, the issue I raised this question is an issue which concerns about fifty thousand families in the 200 seventy-two mountain villages in our country. I am talking about those villages where wind parks have been installed and where villages have been withheld for three years 1% of the electricity sold, so that this money can be attributed to the domestic consumers of the villages, that is to say, a direct compensation fee, there can be a real social justice. At the end of 2014, in December 2014, signed by the respective Ministerial Decision on the allocation of this money, there were more than 13 million euros in the account. I think that now - I hope you will let us know - we should be close to the EUR 20 million. Minister, I will give you an example for Argolida. We have six villages in Argolida waiting for about one million euros - on the basis of 2014 figures, it is 998,000 euros - that is, the Twins 200,000, the Ahladokambos 400,000, the Arahnai 184,000, the Thermesis 137,000. And to tell you by family, because sometimes, Mr President, the reimbursement of this money is an entire pension for a farmer, and sometimes it is also a double pension. For Ahladokambo, the refund is EUR 960, for the Twins of EUR 180, for the Aragonian EUR 460, for the Heat 120 euros. And for you to have a full picture, Minister, - I am sure you have it from the Ministry's services - for the rest of your country I quote: Municipality of Karystos, entitled to a refund of 1,200,000, Municipality of Sitia 910,000, Municipality of Tripoli 620,000, Municipality of Kymi - Aliverion 600,000. Why did I mention this, Minister? I mentioned them because I believe that, because a whole year has passed since the signing of the ministerial decision that has been shared and hopefully that this money has not been used for other purposes, it is very important and employs the fifty thousand inhabitants of these mountain villages when they will finally be repaid to them. Please let me have your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Maniotis, we will agree on something that this money must be paid back and, above all, that it makes sense to increase the interest of some fifty thousand people. I sincerely am pleased with the question, because it shows a late interest. I'll explain later because I'm saying lately interest, I guess you're already aware of it. That money's in the bills. We have collected the evidence from both the UN and the OSCE and from RAE, which specifically ask me and I tell you that they have come from ELSTAT as well. A working party has been set up by the Ministry and the entire procedure provided for by the law will be followed. So I imagine that, as soon as possible, the money will be paid back and we will look at those cases where there may be objections to the placement of these RES to speed up the work of returning this money as quickly as possible. Why am I saying lately interest? Do you know when this end is being retained? You know that. Since June 2010. Do you know - rhetoric the question - that you have been political leadership of this ministry, the Ministry of Energy? You know that. What did you do? I say this sincerely, with a smile, and I imagine that you most want to know, if you don't know, about these people, for whom you are responsible, because they have not given up that money. For this money, which has been collected since 2010, which actually reaches about 20 million euros, their performance should have been on track for a long time. In any case, this will be the first time and like every thing that is done in public administration, it has its difficulties. We are going to overcome the difficulties and it is indeed this SYRIZA government - ANEL, which will deliver what must be done to those who have to take them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u50	I thank the Minister for his answer. Obviously, he looks at the mirror speaking of late interest, because - and I will testify about the Minutes, Minister - when you took over the government at the end of January, you got it all ready. All the money collected, the ministerial decision published and the breakdowns that I will present per village ready. So all the work was done. From you, what we were asking was the money that we collected you, which we gave you a way to distribute it, to give it to those who are entitled to it. So if anyone has to ask, that's me. And I ask you: A year when you have the money in the drawer, which you have the decision to give, why do you keep it in your drawers? Is there any feasibility? Because you tell me that for a year you do not have the administrative capacity to share money that others have raised and told you how to give them. Do you want to resign, because since 2011 - and you've been wrong, it's not since 2010, it's been since 2011 that the law changed and started to gather since 2012 - the money has not been paid? Here, you received them ready in December 2014. So, a year now, what exactly are you doing? That is the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u51	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u52	Mr Maniatis, you are revealing because either in June 2010, in 2011 or in 2012, as you said on all three dates, you have a responsibility because you arrived today, with your words, in December 2014 to make a decision. What have you been doing all the time? You packed them up, and how did you use them, so I could ask the question you asked before me? In any case, because you say that you had all the documents ready, why do you ask me why the RES stations' location points have not been received by RAE? Therefore, you know that it had not been completed in December 2014, that you did not have required documents in your hands. You did a good job. From there on, it's enough road and you did it at only five of your departure from the government. And I understand why you did it, just to create impressions, as in so many other areas you did as a government. Seeing you're leaving, seeing what you're losing, what did you do? You remember we owe some people something. In any case, it is a good thing, even better parliamentary control and I accept parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u53	What did you say it was good?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u54	Please! I'm talking. You will, if you want, take the floor. Today, then, we have come up with a solution. This is a solution and I repeat that it is being resolved for the first time by this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u56	Personally, you are obviously raising yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u57	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u59	The Minister tells us about political courage when he took it all up, because some have worked before you, to overcome bureaucratic problems, and you tell me that for a year you have done nothing, you have not given a 'penny'. Tell me exactly what you did a year to give yourself the right to speak of political courage. Tell me one thing you've done, except wait till you see how the manna falls out of the sky. Mr President, I will table the procedure and distribution for the minutes as early as December 2014, and I would ask the Minister to tell us what he has done in order to promote this issue for a year now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u60	I too, Mr President, want to speak for very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u61	Of course, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u62	I'll tell you quite simply. We did everything you hadn't done, two and a half, three, four years. That's what we did. From there on, everyone listening to the debate understands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u63	However, Minister, from what we understand, there is money, so they will be attributed and interested parties are interested in being paid off.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u64	Do you have any area you're interested in?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u65	No, I don't have a chance personally. We move to the debate of the third under number 234/30-11-2015 topical question of the second question of the Arcadia MP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos, to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism, on the planning of the investments provided for in the development laws and the extension of the deadline for the implementation of the remaining investments. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u66	Minister, we really believe that development law can support the Greek economy. As far as what we have said last days is that for us consensus is within Parliament, we want to be able to help because, above all, we want our country to move forward, to invest, to have new jobs, to have a competitive economy. Today, with my question, representing the Democratic Alliance, I will present you with a comprehensive proposal for development laws. As you know, you have said at the last conference that development laws concern 3 billion projects. I count it around 4 billion and some of these projects end on December 31, 2015. Our proposal is very simple. Firstly, there must be a resolution of all the old projects relating to development laws. How could that be? It could be done with the help of audit firms, which would also help with the assistance of the services, which are above all, to see what live investments are. So we're counting and I think we've said it both you and I many times that these investments are around 1.7 billion. The second part is the financing of these investments. Our proposal is the money that we borrowed from the EBRD, to go to the development areas of both the regions for 100 million and the rest of the development for the remaining 400 million. In fact, this proposal is in agreement with both ELPE and the Chambers. And why do we say that? Because, as Mr Juliarakis has said by June, we will have capital control, so he would give the living investment a force to move forward. And the third is that in order for this whole process to be possible, Minister - because it takes time, and I understand that - we must, for the projects that end and have a deadline in development law by 31 December 2015, give an extension, so that the Ministry can be given time and the whole mechanism to complete the projects. We are sure and believe that this proposal will be implemented and we will support you so that these investments will actually take their course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u67	The Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u68	Thank you for the question, because I have the opportunity to make an announcement on how we will manage the problem of development laws. Let me quote that the two development laws, 2004 and 2011, have accumulated a huge number of investment projects, about six thousand three hundred. There are contractual debts of about 3 billion. It is very difficult to reflect the exact level in which the situation of these investments lies. The other indicator we have is the index of these by the banks, where the investor has assigned the decision to the bank as a pledge to a loan. This amount is 523 million at the moment and the financing of development law is known to have two sources: the Public Investment Program, in which there are currently total needs of approximately 140 million with availability below now for 2015, and the NRP that is 1 billion, from which 765 million have been absorbed and still remains 240 million for this purpose. Also, let me quote that development laws have had many problems in operating the service. Fines have been imposed by the Commission and two successive plans have been made, one by previous governments and one - what I made recently in June - to upgrade the Agency and manage resources and at the same time to freeze the funds that had been frozen - around 800 million - when we came to the government. At the same time, we recognise that there are still too many problems, such as a huge delay in assessing investments, the response to requests for audits and so on. We have therefore decided to give the following solution to the development law in both existing and existing, practical, unifying development laws. What we intend to do is: To be extended eighteen months from 1-1 to mid-2017, including both laws, some categories of investments that have already been extended until the end of 2016 and some until the end of 2015. Indiscriminately what they have received an extension of both categories will be granted eighteen months for the completion of the investments. This will include only companies who have requested, completed or within six months will they request to complete 50% of the project. I repeat. Enterprises, which, as you know, have received the advance and reach the critical point of 50% of the completion of the project, in which case new demand for control is made, these companies, which have already requested or completed 50% and are already at the above point or which complete it within the next six months and are requesting, will benefit the eighteen-month process to complete their investments. All other companies, which will not apply for or have not applied for, are automatically responded in June 2016, i.e. those that do not have or cannot reach 50% of the investment by mid-2016. So those who do not request are automatically responding. But they have a chance. If for any reason the initial investment project - which may have been made in a period prior to the crisis or during the crisis - was facing difficulties, etc. and they do not want you to adapt it downwards, i.e. to create a less flexible investment project, we will set up all the conditions to submit their new investment project more flexible, smaller, more compatible with their possibilities so that within these deadlines they can move on to this investment. That is the solution we propose. In addition, we do two things. Firstly, for these investments that have been completed and which, for various reasons, have been loaded, we will promote the evaluation, the response to the problems they have and possibly a regulatory framework, whereby we can - depending on what a derogation they have made from their initial investment plan, which prevents their funds from being paid out - have not only 10% of the deviation, but a categorisation by which they will receive less money due to the derogations they have made. But, through some rules, they will be able to get the greatest amount possible, after an agreement and quickly. And I am talking about those that have been completed and are operating for various reasons, because they were too ruthless and bureaucratic the two previous laws, there is a problem so that we can increase their flexibility, so that people who have made investments and work for them can be compensated. To this end, and for the rapid evaluation of all the previous points in the eighty external partners that we are already using from the lists of TEI engineers and economists of the Chamber of Economics will be added, other two hundred will pass fast education and speed up the rate of evaluation, integration and operation of this law. Last point is funding. We don't have any final answers. The proposals are very good and we take them seriously into account for additional forms of financing of the law, since there are limitations at the moment. We are in contact with the MIP and with the EBRD and there is a generally positive response from both. Their basic thought is that, depending on the flow of national resources, there will also be a similar flow of European resources to that end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Constantinople, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u70	I think the Minister said almost everything. I am very pleased - and thank you, Minister - that through a question I think we are giving answers and I want to believe in all these people who have been afflicted for years. You are right to say that the Agency has enough problems. But I want to tell you that people there are few in front of the workload. We are at your disposal for any legislation to support the consolidation of the Agency. We need to support it, because I think that new jobs can be found through this process and that the new development law and the new proposal that you will bring to have a different profile from the previous one. In conclusion, I hope that with funding, if the government has a proposal soon, the country will have a comprehensive solution for people, for investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr Constantinople. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, and if you are kind enough to tell us about the people to whom you are due - not you, the Ministry - and decisions have been published in the Official Journal of the Government since last year, when it is foreseen that they will receive their money.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u72	I think I gave the evidence. We are currently covering 50% of the debts. This is the rate of absorption of integrated investments. If I remember correctly, we'll give 48 million against 91 commitments. This is only mentioned in the Public Investment Programme. Those who are enrolled in the ESRB have full absorption. However, we are doing everything possible to increase these resources - they will be increased in 2016 - in order to fill the gap that exists at the moment. I would also like to repeat that the Agency wants support, more staff and organisational restructuring. Above all, since there will also be external partners, the role of most officials should also be increased in order to take on the most effective and powerful role played by the rapporteurs in order to make the whole work better, faster, more efficient and with clearer, of course, absolute transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-four students and schoolchildren and three teachers from the High School of Koutsouras Lassithi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The seventh question under number 231/30-11-2015 will be discussed in the context of the second question by MP II Athens of the Union of Centres Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism on the risk of unfavourable economic effects on the debt debtors of main residence in case of partial coverage by the Greek State of the amount of his monthly payment. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Recognizing the law, the last one that amended, the well-known Katseli Act, we found that the Greek State, under the conditions laid down by the law, takes over part of the debt of that debtor that is indeed in need of public contribution. This is not disputed and the Centrons' Union has voted for this provision. However, in studying it then, I noticed that a number of points should be supplemented and clarified, and I have therefore tabled the timely question. What these points, in my opinion, need to be clarified and supplemented. It therefore undertakes, in accordance with the procedure referred to, following the adoption of the judgment, at the request of the debtor, to cover part of the debt. Does the question automatically arise: Covering this debt will, in their respective part, free the debtor or will it be a simple facility for the debtor from the public authority to the bank? Second question: will the public be delayed if it undertake to cover the part of the debtor’s payment, while still obliging the individual, the debtor? But if that happens, then we will also have two debtors to the bank, so the debt is being kept strong in the end. Furthermore, on the assumption that the State covers this part, the next question comes then: If he covers it, will he have a claim against the private debtor to claim the amount that he paid on his behalf? I do not want to talk about legal or other provisions. They must not deal specifically with the Chamber. They are the practical real questions which are raised. In addition, I would like to make a legal comment in the new law, which is as follows: A joint ministerial decision is planned until 31 December 2015, which will set out the conditions under which the private debtor can also be addressed for 2016 with a more specific part of the CSM and for the time ahead, to the public to ask for his contribution. Since, however, I have the opinion that the questions which I have to ask for regulation - the precedent of the freedom of the individual or of his release if he pays the public part of the contribution in order not to come the tax authority or the public revenue collection service and charges him - we have the opinion that supplementary legislation should be adopted in these two respects and then that the CSCE which regulates the conditions should be followed. Why, Mr President, Minister? Because it is a matter of public money and there is no simple decision, for which there is no law, to regulate such matters, to cover the poor family man who will go to the public to ask for his help. That is why I have tabled the topical and urgent question in order to address these issues, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u76	The law is clear: for 25% of households fulfilling certain conditions the public will cover the part of the loan instalment that the borrower cannot serve. This has a process. After determining the current commercial value of the property and adjusting the amount, which will be served, the State comes to cover the actual weakness of the borrower to cover this amount. My answer, therefore, to your question is that the MAH will regulate these terms and conditions of payment of the instalments. In any case of misinterpretation, my answer is clearly negative. The public will contribute to this and there will be no other requirement in any way. If the legal shield needs additional legislation, we should be happy to do so. Now, with regard to the second question, obviously in the event of public delay, it will be predicted that there will be no problem. However, this problem is not a major problem. In the event that the individual does not repay his own share, our will is to make a regulatory framework, which is not punishable, mainly of a social nature, but at the same time to protect only those who have the potential and yet do not pay. Against them, the law will be protective, that is, it won't allow them to do that. On the contrary, it will facilitate those who really have a weakness of payment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Carras, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u78	I was mostly covered by the Minister's answer. I would just like to point out this: so that these doubts do not remain, let us try legislation, so that we do not lead families to uncertainty, Minister, and I would like to say that we are also willing to contribute, if we can help, to legislative resolution and during the debate. I would ask, however, that you have adopted the regulatory act on 31 December. On condition that we have exceeded the deadline and that the legislative act is adopted without the issue, which is required, there will be a new gap and there will be uncertainty about these people. The public will not be able, even with goodwill, which I see you and the government will be able to fulfil. Then the banks, which will not have taken their share of the public sector - because the budgetary issues and the public and public accounts have to be covered too many issues, Mr President, which are still pending and are not mentioned in the law, because we have a parallel application of the Public Accountancy Act - will be able to turn against borrowers. Don't let these families stay uncertain. They've been afflicted too much. There are our fellow humans who are looking forward to saving their home. We all want to help with this. Let us all contribute and help, Minister. I expect to hear your legislative proposal in the next few days, and I tell you that we will support it as much as we can. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u80	I share your view, we are in the same spirit. I think that what is necessary will come immediately, for supplementing and clarifying, so that there is no misunderstanding about the aims and means of this law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-07-S1-commons.u82	With the consent of the House at 19.45 the sitting for Wednesday, December 9, 2015, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
